DRN-2391352
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the mortgage advice she received from Countrywide Principal 
Services Limited trading as Countrywide Mortgage Services. 
The adviser mis-calculated how much shed need to borrow, and when the true figures came 
to light Mrs H didnt feel able to proceed as she wasnt comfortable with the higher monthly 
payments. By then shed incurred various costs which she wants Countrywide to refund.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It is not in dispute that Countrywide got the figures wrong, and so the advice given to 
Mrs H was unsuitable. All that remains is to decide what needs to be done to put that 
right.
If Countrywide hadnt got the figures wrong, Im satisfied Mrs H wouldnt have applied 
for either of the mortgages, as that was the choice she made as soon as the true 
picture became clear. It follows from that, therefore, that all Mrs Hs costs that arose 
from those applications wouldnt have been incurred were it not for Countrywides 
mistake.
Countrywide has said that Mrs H chose to pay for additional surveys, but she only did 
that because she thought she could buy the house she wanted due to Countrywides 
mistake. Had Countrywide not got things wrong Mrs H wouldnt have made an offer 
on the property, applied for the mortgage and therefore paid for additional surveys.
I can see no grounds upon which it could be argued Mrs Hs entire abortive costs 
shouldnt be refunded by Countrywide as she wouldnt have incurred them if it hadnt 
made the mistake it did.
Putting things right
Having considered everything, I order Countrywide to pay Mrs H £2,591.14 to cover the 
costs she has provided evidence to us to show she incurred with the failed applications. 
In addition I order Countrywide to pay £200 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs H.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Countrywide Principal Services Limited trading as 
Countrywide Mortgage Services to pay Mrs H a total of £2,791.14.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman