DRN-3448781
The complaint
Ms H is complaining that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) hasnt 
refunded an amount she paid for a course. She brings the claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit act (1974).
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, around September 2020 Ms H entered onto a beauty aesthetics training course 
with a third party supplier  who I shall refer to as C. The course cost around £6,500 which 
she paid for partly on her AMEX credit card and the reminder she paid on another credit 
card.
Ms H later raised a dispute with AESEL saying C had breached the terms of the course and 
also that it was misrepresented to her. She raised a number of points, but in particular she 
raised the following:
The course was supposed to be face-to-face but C changed the programme and 
delivered a large proportion of it online and she didnt receive a discount from it doing so. 
She says she could have bought the course at a much cheaper price had she known it 
would have been online.
She says her 300 page workbook wasnt marked and this took up 25% of the pass mark.
She didnt receive all the contracted training  in particular the advanced botox and filler, 
as she says she only received the basic training, or the First Aid and Managing 
Complications courses.
She says she was told C was VTCT and CPD accredited, but later found out that it 
wasnt. She says she wouldnt have bought the course if shed know.
She also said the person running the course had left a number of comments about her 
online.
AESEL didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint as it didnt think Ms H had given anything to show C 
had breached the terms of the contract and it highlighted that she hadnt provided the 
original terms and conditions. It said there wasnt anything to show C had said it was VTCT 
and CPD accredited and it said there wasnt anything to show that C was contractually 
required to provide face-to-face training.
Ms H maintained shed provided everything to show she hadnt received the service she was 
entitled to expect and maintained she was entitled to a refund.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she didnt think there was anything to show 
that C had breached the terms of the contract or misrepresented what it would provide. Ms H 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Firstly, Im conscious Ive summarised this complaint and Ms Hs submissions in a lot less 
detail than shes set out. I dont mean any discourtesy by this and I assure all parties that 
Ive read and considered everything theyve provided. However, in this decision Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key issues. Our rules entitle me to do this and it simply 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
I think it would be helpful to set out that Im only considering AESELs handling of Ms Hs 
Section 75 complaint. Ms H has raised a number of points concerning Cs actions. But C is 
not a party to this complaint. So Im unable to consider anything C may or may not have 
done wrong, other than in regards to any liability AESEL may have.
Ms H partly paid for the course on her AESEL credit card. Section 75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, AESEL is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Ms H has set out that C has breached the terms of the course and also misrepresented what 
shed get. AESEL disagreed. Ill now consider whether it was fair for AESEL to say as such.
Breach of contract
I should first set out that the responsibility for demonstrating that theres been a breach of 
contract rests with the claimant  i.e. Ms H in this case. Its not for C  and in turn AESEL  
to show that there wasnt a breach of contract. So it wasnt unreasonable for AESEL to say 
that Ms H needed to provide evidence to support her claim of breach of contract  including 
the terms of conditions.
The terms of the contract set out what C was contractually required to provide. But, in 
addition to this, legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a 
term into the contract that C had to deliver the course with reasonable care and skill.  
Ms H is unhappy that the amount of face-to-face contact was reduced and she believes C 
should have reduced the contract price as a result of that. C set out that it reduced the 
amount of face-to-face exposure to accommodate government guidelines regarding Covid-
19. I dont think this was unreasonable. I appreciate Ms H thinks this is unfair and she thinks 
it means C wasnt providing what it was required to. But I havent seen anything to show that 
C was contractually required to carry out certain courses on a face-to-face basis. I do not 
dispute that C may have intended to do more face-to-face training. But this does not mean it 
was a contractual requirement for it to do so. So I dont think moving some training onto an 
online platform constituted a breach of contract.
However, while I dont think C has breached an express term of the contract, C was also 
required to provide this training with reasonable care and skill  i.e. the online training. But, 
while I appreciate Ms H was unhappy to not have face-to-face training, I dont think shes 
provided anything to show the training wasnt up to the requisite standard. And Im conscious 
she did complete a significant proportion of the course.
Ms H has said that she didnt receive all the training C was supposed to provide. I 
understand Ms H didnt complete the First Aid and Managing Complications courses, but Im 
satisfied they were made available to her, but Ms H didnt enrol on it. Ive also taken into 
account her comments that she didnt receive the advanced botox and filler training. But, 
ultimately, I dont think I have enough to say that it was unfair for AESEL to say these werent provided.
Ms H has raised a number of other reasons why she doesnt feel C provided the course it 
was required to do, but I dont think shes provided anything to support this. I note shes also 
made a number of comments about the way the individual providing the course has 
personally corresponded with her. But I dont think AESEL is liable for that. So I make no 
further comment regarding this.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded Ms H has given me anything to show that it was unfair for 
AESEL to say there wasnt anything to show C had breached the terms of the contract.
Misrepresentation
As I said above, AESEL can also be held responsible for a misrepresentation by C. In 
essence, this means AESEL is liable for any losses incurred as a result anything that C said 
to Ms H about itself or the service it will provide which Ms H reasonably relied upon and 
induced her into entering into the contract.
Ms H has said she was told that C was VTCT and CPD registered. But I dont think shes 
provided anything to show she was told that before she entered into the contract. I also 
understand C was actually CPD registered. So I dont think C has given a false statement of 
fact regarding this.
Ive also considered whether C gave any false statements regarding whether the course 
would be a face-to-face course, but Ms H hasnt given us anything to show that it gave any 
guarantees or assurances on this. 
Ultimately, while I appreciate Ms H feels strongly about whats happened, Im not persuaded 
that C falsely represented what it would provide.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman