DRN-2122225
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc didnt raise a chargeback for him.
What happened
Mr S purchased a car in September 2019 using his Santander debit card. Mr S said hed 
agreed to purchase the car if a full MOT was carried out and an issue with the steering was 
fixed. When Mr S drove the car home he said there was a clear issue with the steering. He 
asked to return the car to the dealer.
The dealer offered Mr S a different car as a swap but Mr S refused. It then said it would 
accept the car back but would deduct £150 as it would now be harder to sell after it had 
completed an MOT six months before it was due. Mr S didnt feel this was fair either. After 
some communication back and forth the dealer said it had closed. Mr S asked Santander to 
raise a chargeback.
Santander asked Mr S for evidence that he had returned, or attempted to return the car. 
Mr S sent it the correspondence. Santander said that the VISA rules require the goods to be 
returned, or a return attempted for the chargeback to be successful. It also said that it felt the 
chargeback wouldnt be successful as the dealer had offered a resolution. So, it didnt 
proceed with the chargeback.
Our investigator felt Santander had acted fairly. She explained that a chargeback isnt an 
obligation, and that Santander has to follow the rules set out by VISA. As it couldnt see that 
Mr S had returned the car, or attempted to do so, it knew the chargeback wouldnt be 
successful. So, it hadnt done anything wrong in declining to proceed.
Mr S disagreed. He said that he wasnt offered a fair resolution from the dealer and it 
continues to be unfair that Santander wont refund him for a dangerous car. Mr S asked 
many specific questions about how the chargeback rules work and how debit cards are 
regulated. Our investigator sent Mr S the relevant chargeback rules and explained that our 
role was to look at Santanders actions. And she explained it had rejected Mr Ss chargeback 
request in line with the VISA rules which was fair.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said his evidence shows he was 
trying to reach a resolution with the dealer and Santander has ignored this. Hed like his 
money to refunded for the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all of the communication Mr S has sent us, and all of his points hes submitted 
in response to our investigators view. I think our investigator addressed those points well 
and I wont be referring to his specific queries in this decision. I understand Mr S is now in a 
position where he has a car which he doesnt want and feels wasnt fit for purpose. And I can 
understand why this is having a detrimental effect on him. But our role is to determine 
whether Santander acted reasonably when rejecting Mr Ss chargeback request. I think it did 
and Ill explain why.
A chargeback isnt an obligation, its not guaranteed to succeed. Its something that a card
scheme  in this case VISA  operates. Its a process that allows a card issuer (Santander) 
to request money is returned for a number of specified reasons. When Mr S contacted 
Santander it found the correct reason in the VISA scheme rules. Under the rules specific to 
this, which Mr S has been sent a copy of, there are certain conditions that must be met 
before a chargeback can be requested. Specifically these say:
Before the issuer may initiate a Dispute, the cardholder must return the merchandiseIf the 
cardholder is unable to return the merchandiseit is sufficient for the cardholder to attempt 
to return the merchandise. 
The rules go on to say that where the goods havent been returned, there has to be evidence 
of the return being attempted. I understand Mr S feels he attempted to return the goods 
because hed asked the dealer to give him a full refund. He also provided an independent 
report to show the faults the car had. But Santander explained it couldnt see evidence of 
him attempting to return the car. 
All of the correspondence Mr S has sent shows that he changed his mind shortly after 
collecting the car. I can see the dealer offered some resolutions including swapping the car 
and taking back the car but deducting £150 from the refund because it would have to re-sell 
it. Whilst these werent acceptable to Mr S, he didnt make any attempt to take the car back 
to the dealer, or arrange for it to go back. I know Mr S said he asked the dealer to collect the 
car but the rules require an attempt to return the car and a refusal from the dealer to accept 
the car back. But the evidence suggested that the dealer was willing to provide resolutions 
and hadnt refused to accept the car back. So, I dont think Santander has been 
unreasonable when declining to raise the chargeback. Mr S hadnt provided the evidence it 
needed to initiate the dispute.
Santander has also said that a chargeback would also likely fail because the dealer had 
offered a resolution. The VISA rules show that the merchant (in this case the dealer) can 
rebut the dispute or show that the goods havent been returned. I think Santander was 
reasonable in suggesting the dispute may fail because of this. It was clear from the 
conversations between Mr S and the dealer that the dealer was willing to offer resolutions 
including fixing the car or refunding it based on a report from a well-known car inspection 
service.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, and I know he doesnt feel hes been 
fairly treated. But I can only look at what Santander should do in this situation. And Id expect 
it to look at the evidence in line with the VISA chargeback rules to determine whether to 
raise a dispute. I can see it has done that in this case and I think it acted reasonably when it 
declined to raise the chargeback based on there not being evidence to show Mr S returned, 
or attempted to return the car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman