DRN-3083716
The complaint
Mr H complains about EUI Limiteds handling of a claim under his car insurance.
What happened
Mr H has a car insurance policy underwritten by EUI Limited.
He made a claim after he was involved in a very unfortunate accident when a tree branch fell 
onto his car.
There were some initial discussions between Mr H and EUI about whether he would make a 
claim or pursue the third party who owned the tree to pay for the damage to his car.
Mr H decided to make a claim. But he wasnt happy with the approved repairer that EUI 
intended to use. He found a garage closer to his home who could carry out the repair much 
more quickly.
When he took his car to that garage, Mr H drove away in a courtesy car provided by them. 
Unfortunately, there was a further accident when the courtesy car crashed into Mr Hs 
house. The garage assessed the repairs required and costed these at £7,000.
Mr H asked EUI to cover these costs. He says he was under the impression he was insured 
under his policy with EUI to drive the courtesy car. 
EUI said Mr H wasnt in fact covered and declined to pay the repair costs.
Mr H made a complaint to EUI. He said:
EUI had ignored his attempts to contact them after they said he wasnt covered to 
drive the courtesy car;
the approved repairer had told him his car would be stored at a site 38 miles from his 
home (which didnt meet the minimal provision set out in the policy terms and 
conditions);
the approved repairer had poor customer reviews on-line and so wasnt suitable;
the approved repairer said the repairs would take 10 weeks, which was too long;
both the garage Mr H used for the repairs and EUI had told Mr H that the garage was 
an approved repairer (which meant hed be covered to drive the courtesy car);
his policy should have covered him to drive the courtesy car because hed 
reasonably used a more local approved repairer;
EUI contacted the repairing garage and told them Mr H had driven without insurance;
he hadnt been asked to pay an excess for using a non-approved repairer, which was 
stipulated in the terms of the policy, so it wasnt unreasonable to assume the garage 
was an approved repairer;
he wasnt asked for two quotes for the repairs  which would be required by the 
terms if he used a non-approved repairer (which again indicated the garage was an 
approved repairer).
EUI admitted that when Mr H contacted them, hed been told hed get a response much 
sooner than he in fact did. 
They agreed that the repair time offered by the approved repairer wasnt satisfactory, 
although there were mitigating circumstances around the national lockdown due to COVID. 
They said the conversation they had with the garage Mr H used should have been preceded 
by a conversation with Mr H himself. 
And they admitted that their policy terms were ambiguous, if not misleading, about the need 
for two quotes. They said if one quote looked reasonable to their experts, that would be 
regarded as sufficient.
EUI paid Mr H £125 in compensation for these admitted failings. But they maintained that 
their approved repairer was a suitable option for their customers and was within a 
reasonable distance from Mr Hs home. 
They said the policy was clear that any additional excess for using a non-approved repairer 
might apply  and that whether it applied would be set out in the policy schedule. They 
pointed out that Mr Hs schedule was clear that there was no such excess on Mr Hs cover.
And they maintained that they wouldnt pay the cost of the repairs to the courtesy car 
because theyd been clear that Mr H wasnt covered to drive it.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He told us the 
outcome he wants is for EUI to pay for the repairs to the courtesy car. He thinks they should 
do so because based on his conversations with EUI and the repairing garage, it wasnt 
unreasonable for him to believe he was covered to drive the car. And because he should 
have been covered, in all the circumstances.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think EUI had done anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
EUI admitted various failings in the way they handled Mr Hs claim. And theyve paid him 
compensation for that. Mr H hasnt suggested that he thinks the amount he was paid for 
those failings was unfair or unreasonable. But for the avoidance of doubt, I think the 
compensation hes been paid adequately covered the trouble and upset he was caused by 
those admitted failings.
The remainder of Mr Hs complaint essentially comes down to two things. One, he thinks the 
approved repairer offered by EUI wasnt acceptable. And two, he thinks EUI should cover 
the cost of repairing the courtesy car because he was entitled to believe he was insured to 
drive it.
Ive carefully considered what Mr Hs policy says about the cover provided. The relevant 
section is entitled Making a Claim and begins on page 3 of the Policy Guide.The section begins by saying what will happen if the car is damaged in an accident and cant 
safely be driven. In that case, the policy says EUI will have the car recovered and moved to 
the policyholders home, or an approved repairer, or a safe place of storage within 30 miles. 
The policy doesnt say so explicitly, but I assume this means within 30 miles of the accident.
This part of the policy doesnt apply in Mr Hs case, because the car was driven away from 
the site of the accident, as I understand it  it certainly wasnt recovered. I mention it only 
because one reason Mr H thinks the approved repairer wasnt acceptable is that they said 
theyd store the car whilst it was awaiting repair at a site more than 30 miles from his home.
Theres nothing in the policy to say where cars will be stored whilst awaiting repair when 
they havent been recovered from the scene of the accident. And where its stored whilst 
awaiting repair in those circumstances is of no consequence to the policyholder. Theres no 
suggestion the car was to be stored insecurely or inappropriately.
The relevant section goes on to say that if the damage is covered, EUI will arrange for one of 
their approved repairers to repair the car. And in that case, the repairer will arrange 
collection and delivery and will:
 give you a courtesy car while your car is being repaired. Courtesy cars 
provided by our Approved Repairers will be covered under your insurance policy on 
the same terms and conditions as your car.
The section continues:
If you do not wish to use our Approved Repairer. We will be unable to provide you 
with a courtesy car
And theres a note underneath those paragraphs, which is labelled IMPORTANT, which 
says:
We cannot guarantee a like for like vehicle as a courtesy car.
I mention this latter clause only because another of Mr Hs reasons for not finding the 
approved repairer acceptable was that they wouldnt provide him with a like for like vehicle 
as a courtesy car.
None of those terms of the policy are hidden in the small print. None of them are inherently 
unfair. And none of them are unusual. And I assume Mr H read them before he bought the 
policy. 
It is possible that you could buy a policy which guarantees a like for like courtesy car  and 
provides a courtesy car in a wider range of circumstances  but that policy would likely cost 
you more. 
EUI is entitled to choose what its policies offer to customers. And as long as whats on offer 
is clear, I cant see any reason to suggest thats unfair or unreasonable. If potential 
customers dont like that offering they can seek insurance elsewhere.
So, in the context of the terms and conditions of the policy, Ill look at the service EUI offered 
to Mr H when his car was unfortunately damaged.
EUI accepted Mr Hs claim. And they suggested an approved repairer. Mr H has said the accident ought not to affect his no claims bonus because the accident it 
wasnt his fault  a tree branch fell on his car. The policy is clear  again under a note 
headed IMPORTANT - that the no claims bonus will be affected if EUI cant recover the 
payment they make for the damage from a third party. The note explicitly says that this is a 
no claims bonus and not a no blame bonus.
Mr Hs main objections to the approved repairer were: that he wouldnt get a like for like 
courtesy car; that the repairer was some distance from his home; that they had poor reviews 
on line; and that they told him it would take ten weeks to carry out the repairs.
Mr H wasnt entitled to a like for like courtesy car (see the policy terms quoted above). The 
distance from his home isnt set out in the policy - and given that the car was to be collected 
and delivered, I cant see that would make a difference to Mr H.
I can see why the poor reviews might be a concern, but I cant say EUI acted unreasonably 
in maintaining their relationship with the approved repairer. That was a business decision for 
them to make. And if there had been any issues with the way the repairs were carried out, 
they would have to deal with them appropriately and ensure that in the final analysis a full 
and satisfactory repair had been completed.
I can understand why the approved repairer might have had a backlog of work during the 
national lockdown. But I can of course see Mr Hs point that his own repairer told him the 
repairs would take them only one week  which was understandably a much more appealing 
option.
In short, I can understand Mr Hs frustration. I can see how he felt the timeline from the 
approved repairer made his own garage a better option. 
But I also have to take into account that the policy terms dont specify a time limit for repairs. 
More importantly perhaps, they also allow for exactly this kind of situation. If the policyholder 
doesnt like the approved repairer option, they can choose their own supplier and EUI will 
still pick up the bill for the repairs. 
To put it bluntly, Mr H had a decision to make. Get the repairs done more quickly, but without 
the benefits of using the approved repairer (no need for approval of a quote, provision of a 
courtesy car etc.) or accept the longer timeframe and take the upsides of that option, 
including the courtesy car.
Mr H chose to use his own repairer. That was in line with the terms of the policy. And in 
agreeing to pay the invoice based on the cost set out by Mr Hs repairer, EUI fulfilled their 
part of the bargain  again, in line with terms of the policy.
This brings us to the second main part of Mr Hs complaint to us. Essentially, he says he 
made that decision thinking that he would be entitled to a courtesy car from the repairer and 
that his existing policy would cover him to drive that car.
Im afraid I cant agree with Mr H on this point. Im satisfied he either was or should have 
been aware that he wasnt entitled to the courtesy car under his policy with EUI and that he 
wouldnt be covered by that policy when he drove it. Ill explain why.
One  Mr Hs policy quite clearly says (see the quoted sections above) that hell get a 
courtesy car - and be covered under his insurance to drive it  only if he chooses to use the 
approved repairer. Mr H should have been aware of those provisions in the policy when he bought it. Even if he 
wasnt aware of them at that time, because he chose not to read his policy terms at the point 
of purchase, he should have been aware once he had the accident, made a claim, and got 
into a dispute with EUI about it. At that point, Id expect he would have familiarised himself 
with his policy terms.
Two  Mr H had a telephone conversation with EUI on 6 August 2020 when he was 
considering whether to make a claim. During that call, EUIs agent made it absolutely clear 
to Mr H that he was entitled to use his own repairer, but that if he did so, he wouldnt be 
entitled to the benefits under the policy which came with using the approved repairer  
including the courtesy car. Mr H clearly understood this message, because he said that 
didnt matter to him because the courtesy car on offer was too small in any case. 
Three  on 10 August 2020, Mr H had another conversation with EUI. He said he still 
intended to use his own repairer but wanted EUI to provide a like for like courtesy car. The 
agent again explained to Mr H that he wouldnt get a courtesy car unless he used the 
approved repairer.
Four  on 12 August 2020, EUI sent a text to Mr H confirming theyd received the quote from 
his repairer and would contact him when it had been accepted. They later emailed Mr H to 
say the quote had been accepted and the repairs could go ahead. The email again reiterated 
that Mr H wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under his policy and that, if he did arrange a 
courtesy car, it was his responsibility to ensure he was insured to drive it.
Mr H says he never got that email. He says it must have gone into his junk / spam folder 
automatically. Whilst that may be possible, its not EUIs fault  they sent the email to the 
address provided by Mr H. And, to be blunt, the email was simply confirming what Mr H had 
been told directly at least twice before and what his policy said.
Mr H says some confusion arose in communications with his own chosen repairer. He says 
he asked whether they were approved to carry out work for EUI and they said they were. So, 
he assumed he was entitled to the courtesy car.
It appears that repairer may undertake some types of work for EUI, which explains their 
answer to Mr H. But EUI arent responsible for any confusion in Mr Hs communications with 
his chosen repairer. 
And they had been absolutely clear (see above) that Mr Hs garage was not an approved 
repairer in this case, and that Mr H was not entitled to a courtesy car under his policy with 
them. And that hed need to seek insurance elsewhere if he did arrange a courtesy car with 
anyone else.
When Mr H picked up the courtesy car, he signed a document agreeing to ensure that the 
car was covered under a comprehensive insurance policy. And his repairer has confirmed 
that he told them EUI had told him he was entitled to a courtesy car  which they had not. In 
fact, theyd done exactly the opposite.
When Mr H rang EUI to report the damage to the courtesy car, there was some confusion 
about whether he was  or should have been  entitled to a courtesy car paid for by EUI 
from his repairer. Its fair to say that, at that point, the full circumstances were not known to 
the agent who handled the call.
And in any case, that call  coming as it did after the accident in the courtesy car  can have 
had no bearing on Mr Hs thinking about whether he was entitled to a courtesy car (and 
insurance cover for it) at the time he took the courtesy car from the repairer.In summary, EUI have offered a service to Mr H which was in line with the terms of his 
policy. I cant see that they acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way towards Mr H when 
handling his original claim. They set out the options for Mr H  to use the approved repairer 
or to use his own but without some of the benefits  very clearly.
And Im satisfied that they were as clear as they possibly could have been with Mr H that, if 
he chose to use his own repairer, he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car and wouldnt covered 
to drive one under his insurance policy with EUI. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman