DRN-3672954
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) has unfairly declined a business interruption (BI) claim made under its pub insurance 
policy. 
Mr P, who is a director of E, brings the complaint on Es behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all comments and actions of Mr P as being those of E.  
What happened
This complaint concerns a BI claim under Es pub insurance policy. E has also made a 
separate complaint to RSA about a property damage claim which has been considered by 
an ombudsman at this service and a final decision has been issued on the complaint. As the 
property damage claim has already been considered by our service, I wont comment on the 
merits of that claim, however as the BI claim is linked to it, I will refer to it when necessary. 
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, following a fire at Es premises, E made a BI claim for loss of gross revenue as a 
consequence of the fire while its business remained closed. 
Following a review of Es claim RSA said that there was no cover for loss of gross revenue 
because in order for this section to respond, its a pre-requisite that there is damage which is 
covered by this insurance. RSA explained that the policy provides cover for property damage 
caused by fire, however the policy terms also include a Kitchen Equipment condition which 
had been breached and so the property damage claim was not covered by RSA. Therefore, 
RSA concluded that as the damage claim wasnt covered by this insurance, the BI section of 
the policy wouldnt respond and so RSA are unable to consider a claim for such losses. 
E disagreed with RSAs reason for declining its claim. It also argued that the Kitchen 
Equipment condition only applied to the property damage claim, therefore despite this claim 
being declined, the Material Damage Requirement under the BI section of the policy had 
been satisfied. E explained that as a leaseholder, it had an interest in the landlords buildings 
insurance policy and because the landlords buildings claim was met by its insurer, it had 
satisfied the Material Damage Requirement. E said that this triggered the BI cover and RSA 
should meet its claim. 
RSA maintained that the gross revenue indemnity under the BI cover relied on there being 
damage covered by this insurance for the policy to respond. RSA concluded that as there 
was no cover for the fire damage, cover for BI was not triggered and so the Material Damage 
Requirement didnt matter at this stage. 
E didnt agree with RSA. It said even if RSA was correct, its right to decline the claim fell foul 
of Section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015. E referred to subsection 3 of the Act which says 
that the insurer cannot rely on a policy term if the insured shows that the non-compliance 
with the term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the 
circumstances in which it occurred. E said that when considering the Material Damage 
Requirement, the building was reinstated promptly by the landlords insurer and therefore it 
didnt increase the risk of BI loss. 
RSA said Section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 had no application to the Material Damage 
Requirement because it didnt impose an obligation on E to comply with a term and for the 
purpose of Section 11, the loss is the event which gives rise to the claim, so whether or not 
the Material Damage Requirement was complied with, it could never tend to reduce the risk 
of an event such as a fire. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, E brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought it
was fair and reasonable for RSA to find that because the property damage claim wasnt 
covered, the BI claim wouldnt respond. He therefore concluded that it was fair for RSA to 
decline Es BI claim, and he didnt think RSA needed to do anything differently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and carefully considered everything E and RSA have said. However, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The purpose 
of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. My role is to
consider the evidence presented by E, and RSA, to reach what I think is a fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The crux of this complaint centres on RSAs decision to decline Es BI claim. The relevant 
rules and industry guidance say that RSA have a responsibility to handle the claims promptly 
and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I have to decide if I think RSA have 
applied the terms of the policy in a fair and reasonable manner when declining Es BI claim. 
Having reviewed everything available to me, I think they did, Ill explain why 
When considering whether or not it was reasonable for RSA to decline Es claim, I have 
looked closely at the relevant policy terms and conditions.  
E made a claim for loss of gross revenue under the BI section of its policy. The relevant 
section states: 
"Gross Revenue - how we settle claims 
If Damage by any Event covered under this insurance occurs at the Premises to 
Property Insured by You for the purpose of the Business and causes interruption 
or interference with Your Business at the Premises
We will pay You the amount of loss resulting from the interruption or interference 
caused by the Damage in accordance with the following"
Es policy terms also go on to say the following: 
Other considerations when settling any claims under this Insurance 
Material Damage Requirement
Payment must have been made or liability admitted for the Damage under an insurance covering Your interest in the property
or
payment would have been made or liability admitted for the Damage but for the 
operation of a term in such insurance excluding liability for losses below a specified 
amount." 
RSA has said that because the property damage wasnt covered under this insurance policy 
due to a material breach of the Kitchen Equipment condition, it therefore follows that there is 
no cover for the BI claim. 
As per the policy terms, Im satisfied that for a BI claim to be considered there must be 
damage by an event which is covered under this insurance. I agree with E that fire was an 
event which the policy provided cover for, however unfortunately on this occasion it wasnt 
covered by RSA. Im therefore satisfied that E hasnt shown that there is damage by an 
event covered under this insurance and therefore the BI cover isnt triggered. 
E also said that it has met the Material Damage Requirement under the BI section of the 
policy because it had an interest in the landlords buildings insurance which covered the 
buildings claim and as such the BI cover should respond.  
When considering the Material Damage Requirement my understanding of its purpose is to 
ensure there is cover for damage so repairs can be put right and the business resume 
trading - to minimise the financial loss during the indemnity period.  
I dont have enough evidence to say whether or not E had an insurable interest in its 
landlords buildings insurance policy as suggested by E, but in any event, Im not persuaded 
that its relevant here or that it changes the outcome of the BI claim. I say this because, as 
per the policy terms, its a pre-requisite of the gross revenue indemnity there is damage by 
an event covered under this insurance. If that element can be met, then the Material 
Damage Requirement sets out considerations RSA should take into account when settling a 
claim. Because the damage caused by the fire wasn't covered by this insurance in the first 
place, RSA doesnt need to consider how to settle the BI claim therefore the Material 
Damage Requirement doesnt come into consideration at this stage. 
Ive considered Es point about the application of Section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 to the 
Material Damage Requirement. I agree with our investigator that its not relevant here, and in 
any event, RSA is not relying on non-compliance of this term to discharge its liability, so I 
wont comment on this point any more.   
In summary, Im satisfied that the BI section of the policy didnt provide cover unless damage 
by an event covered under this insurance occurred at the premises. Im satisfied that 
because the damage caused by the fire wasnt covered under this insurance, the BI cover 
wouldnt respond. I dont consider that RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably when declining 
Es BI claim for loss of gross revenue. I therefore wont be requiring RSA to do anything 
differently.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman