DRN-2862422
The complaint
Mr K complained because an insurer at the Society of Lloyds (Ill refer to Lloyds for ease) 
declined his motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr K bought a car for £22,991. According to the sales invoice Mr K was the buyer and 
payment was made up as £3,000 cash; £7,000 part exchange; and £12,991 through finance. 
Mr K was involved in a road traffic accident and he made a claim under his policy. Lloyds 
initially offered to settle the claim but later declined it. This was because it felt Mr K had no 
financial interest in the car.
Mr K argued that the car was his and he paid for it. He said that in order to buy the car he 
paid the initial deposit and part-exchanged the other car, and although the credit was taken 
out by someone else he paid for it. Lloyds remained of the view that Mr Ks claim wasnt 
covered as he hadnt established a direct financial link to the car, so he had no insurable 
interest in it.
What I provisionally decided
I issued a provisional decision which outlined why I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are detailed below and form part of this 
final decision.
Id seen various documents that I considered relevant to the complaint:
oSales invoice  this showed what Ive outlined above
oCredit agreement  this showed that credit was taken out by a Mr A (one of Mr 
Ks work colleagues); the credit was £12,991 over a 60 month period; the 
repayments were 59 monthly payments of £287.46 and one final payment of 
£437.46; the credit was linked to the purchase of the car thats at the centre of 
this complaint
oRegistration (or V5) document  this showed the registered keeper as Mr K
oStatements from Mr A and Mr K  these said that Mr A got a bank loan to help Mr 
K buy the car, and that Mr K had been paying money into Mr As bank account 
and Mr A was paying the finance company from there
oMr As bank statements  these showed regular payments of £287.46 being 
made to the finance provider from March 2017 to May 2018; and various 
payments ranging from £30 to £2,000 being paid into the account by Mr K during 
the same period (although some payments just had a handwritten note which 
said the payments came from Mr K; and there were other payments going from 
the account to Mr A).
The credit was provided to Mr A through a conditional sale agreement  which worked by 
the credit provider buying the car from the dealer, and then allowing Mr A to pay for it 
over a number of instalments; in essence, the car was owned by the credit provider and 
Mr A essentially hired it from the credit provider until he paid all the instalments.
Mr Ks policy didnt cover loss of or damage to any car he was driving or using that didnt 
belong to him, that wasnt being bought by him under a hire purchase agreement or was 
leased to him.
Insurable interest is the interest (usually financial) a person has in property to the extent 
that if the property is lost or damaged the person suffers harm (usually a financial loss); 
its important to insurance because a person cant generally insure something that they 
dont own/have a financial interest in.
The majority of the purchase was funded by way of credit that was provided to Mr A. It 
was solely Mr As responsibility to make the repayments  the credit provider wouldnt 
have any claim on Mr K for any missed payments. And irrespective of any funding 
arrangements Mr A and Mr K might have agreed to, Mr K wasnt party to the credit and 
he had no insurable or financial interest in the car through the credit agreement.
The starting position for me was that the credit provider owned the car and Mr A had the 
main financial and insurable interest in it (due to his liability to the credit provider through 
the credit agreement). So I thought Mr K had to provide persuasive evidence to show 
that he ought to be recognised as the person with insurable interest.
I felt one problem Mr K had in that respect was that there was no clear paper trail 
confirming that he paid money to Mr A, who in turn paid the credit provider. Although this 
is what both Mr A and Mr K said in their statements, I didnt place much weight on the 
statements as I didnt think they were supported by the bank statements that had been 
provided  because none of the transactions in the statements that showed money paid 
into Mr As account by Mr K (or purported to show this) correlated with the £287.46 Mr A 
paid each month to the credit provider; the payments were irregular in frequency and 
amount.
Mr K said that the different payments didnt mean they didnt support payments for the 
finance. I acknowledged that was true as it was possible the payments, in part, covered 
the cost of the credit. But I felt it equally possible that they were for something else 
altogether  particularly as the payments going into the account between March 2017 
and May 2018 exceeded £20,000, whereas the repayments for the same period totalled 
just over £4,000; there were also some transactions going from Mr A to Mr K. Given my 
starting position that it was the credit provider and Mr A who had the financial/insurable 
interest in the car, I didnt think the possibility that the payments covered the credit was 
enough to conclude that Mr K was probably paying for it.
Mr K explained that both he and Mr A used the account  hence the various 
transactions. However I didnt think that helped him establish a clear paper trail linking 
him to the finance, and therefore the car.
Overall, I didnt think Mr K had done enough to show that he was paying for the finance.
The sales invoice showed that Mr K was the buyer so I thought it was more likely than 
not that the part-exchanged car was owned by him  because I thought the dealer would 
likely have made some cursory checks into the ownership of the car before accepting it 
in part exchange.
The deposit wasnt as clear because the cash could have come from anywhere. I 
thought it significant that Mr K hadnt been able to provide proof (eg a bank statement showing a debit card transaction or a recent cash withdrawal) that the £3,000 paid to the 
dealer was his.
The registration document was in Mr Ks name; however that didnt establish ownership 
of the car.
Summary/conclusion
The ownership and financing of the car wasnt clear. But the legal position at the time of 
the claim due to the credit agreement was that the car was owned by the credit provider 
and Mr A had the main financial interest in the car. Mr K might also have had a financial 
interest in the car through the deposit paid and the car part-exchanged. But even if better 
evidence in that respect could be provided, I didnt think it overcame the fact that the 
main financial interest in the car was held by the credit provider and Mr A.
I didnt therefore think Lloyds treated Mr K unfairly when it declined the claim  because 
the policy didnt cover damage to a car Mr K was driving that didnt belong to him. And I 
didnt think Mr K had sufficiently shown that the car belonged to him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision.
Mr K acknowledged my decision although he said it wasnt what he was expecting. He 
nevertheless pointed out that I had failed to consider the witness statement he and Mr A 
provided; he asked me to take these into consideration before finalising your decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I disagree with Mr K that I failed to consider the witness statements  I referred to them in 
my provisional decision and explained why I didnt place much weight on them. I will 
nevertheless confirm my position for clarity.
Mr K and Mr As statements essentially mirrored one another. Mr K said:
he bought the car and was the legal owner of it
he paid £3,000 in cash, £7,000 part-exchange, with the remainder by way of a loan 
provided to Mr A
the log book was registered in his name and he insured the car
at the point of insuring the car he wasnt asked whether he financed the car himself or 
not; but in any event he had been paying money into Mr As bank account and Mr A in 
turn was paying the finance company.
Mr A said:
Mr K bought the car  paying £3,000 in cash, £7,000 part-exchange, with the remainder 
coming from a loan from the bank to help Mr K finance the purchase
Mr K had always been paying him and he in return was paying the finance company
in 2015/2016 he earned £8,236.80, in 2016/2017 he earned £9,000.00 and from April 
2018 he earned £773.28 per month  so he couldnt pay the finance company without 
payments from Mr K.Ive already said above that I dont place much weight on the statements in respect of who 
ultimately paid the credit provider because theyre not supported by the transactions showing 
on the bank statements. I have nothing further to add in this respect.
I dont consider Mr Ks comment about him not being asked about the financing of the car 
material to the outcome of the complaint because it doesnt change the fact (a) that the 
policy doesnt cover damage to a car Mr K was driving that didnt belong to him, and (b) that 
in my opinion Mr K hasnt sufficiently shown that the car belonged to him. What Mr K was 
asked at the start of the policy might have been relevant if Lloyds declined the claim based 
on misrepresentations Mr K made when he insured the car  but that isnt the case.
I also dont consider Mr As comment about his earnings material to the outcome of the 
complaint. Thats mainly because Im not judging Mr As financial position and whether or not 
he could have afforded to pay the monthly repayments  Im judging whether Lloyds treated 
Mr K fairly given the issues in respect of the ownership of the car/insurable interest. In any 
event, Mr As recorded earnings are only one part of this financial position and I havent 
been provided with anything else  he might, for example, have had other means to pay for 
the finance eg savings.
Overall, for all the reasons outlined above, my conclusion remains the same ie Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr K unfairly when it declined his claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman