DRN-3116284
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as A, is unhappy with the way it was treated by The Royal 
Bank of Scotland (RBS) during the time that its accounts were managed by the Global 
Restructuring Group (GRG) department within the bank.
What happened
A had a loan with RBS that was due to be repaid at the end of February 2013. However, as 
the date for repayment approached, it was evident that A wouldnt be able to settle the loan 
as per the contractual terms. Because of this, RBS transferred As business relationship to 
the GRG.
In March 2013, as efforts to find an agreeable refinancing option continued, RBS asked A to 
instruct a valuation of As company assets  a property portfolio  with the cost of the report 
to be borne by A. The valuation was authorised by A and a report was subsequently 
received from the appointed valuer.
In December 2013, a five-year extension to the loan facility was agreed with an interest rate 
of base rate +3.5% and an arrangement fee of 1.5%. The renewed loan went into effect the 
next month and the arrangement fee was charged to As current account.
In 2018, A raised a complaint with RBS on the basis that it was unhappy with various 
aspects of what had taken place when it was transferred to the GRG. This included that RBS 
unreasonably transferred A to the GRG, and that RBS unreasonably requested a revaluation 
of the property portfolio at As cost. A also complained that RBS had made an unreasonable 
loan restructuring proposal and had charged unreasonable fees while As relationship was 
with the GRG.
RBS looked at As complaint. It acknowledged that one of the terms of the proposed 
restructuring was unreasonable and it apologised to A for this and offered a good will 
payment of £5,000 to A. However, RBS didnt uphold the other aspects of As complaint, and 
felt that it had acted fairly and reasonably in consideration of these points.
A wasnt satisfied with RBSs response to its complaint, so it appealed its complaint to the 
Independent Third Party (ITP). The ITP reviewed As complaint, but it also didnt feel that 
RBS had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards A regarding the complaint points raised by 
A that RBS hadnt upheld. Because of this, the ITP didnt uphold As complaint.
A didnt agree with the ITPs assessment of its complaint, so it referred its complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that RBSs response 
to As complaint already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened, 
so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A have set out its complaint points as follows:
A contends that RBS didnt clearly explain the reasons why its business relationship 
was passed to the GRG. A have said that RBS initially stated that the transfer to 
GRG was to assist them, but that the bank later explained that the transfer was a 
form of punishment.
A is unhappy with the behaviour of one of the Relationship Managers (RMs) that 
was assigned by RBS to oversee the business relationship.
Because of the actions of the RM, A feels that RBS was trying to remove their 
account. This is because A believe that the loan agreements put in place by the RM 
hadnt been centrally approved by RBS.
A contends that it was put through unnecessary stress and pressure as a result of 
RBS trying to end the business relationship early. This included A being asked to put 
forward a proposal to RBS to move the borrowing elsewhere, which was then 
rejected by RBS.
A is unhappy that RBS changed the RM assigned to the business relationship 
several times which it feels was indicative of RBSs waning interest in maintaining the 
business relationship
I can appreciate As concerns surrounding RBSs reasons for transferring the business 
relationship to the GRG. However, it must be acknowledged that at that time, A held a 
significant loan facility that it was unable to repay in line with the contractual terms of that 
facility. Additionally, no agreement had been reached on how to restructure the borrowing, 
meaning that when the term of the loan expired at the end of February 2013, the facility 
would effectively be in default.
Additionally, the downturn in property prices at that time meant that RBS had 
understandable concerns as to the value of the security it held relative to the amount of 
outstanding debt.
In such circumstances, it isnt unusual for a business such as RBS to transfer a business 
relationship to a specialised restructuring division, and this is because such divisions are 
better placed to provide the more non-standard service that it is often required when a 
business relationship has entered territory which falls outside the service remit of a 
businesss mainstream departments. Accordingly, I find it difficult to conclude that RBS acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards A by making such a decision.
Furthermore, while I can understand how it might, from As perspective, be considered that 
the transferral of the business relationship to the GRG was a form of punishment for A not 
being able to meet the contractual repayment of the loan, I dont feel that RBS instigated the 
transferal of the business relationship with an intention of punishment, but rather that it was 
done so by RBS as a reasonable response to the developing situation in regard to the non-
repayment of the loan and the increased perception of risk felt by RBS because of this  for 
the reasons outlined previously above.A also contends that one of the RMs assigned to the business relationship by RBS acted 
erratically to As detriment during the negotiations towards the restructuring of the loan 
facility that were confirmed in December 2013.
Ive reviewed the submissions provided by A, which Im aware A feels evidences this 
contention. However, Im not convinced that these submissions provide any evidence of 
erratic behaviour by the RM, detrimentally or otherwise. Im aware that the loan paperwork 
sent by the RM includes an error which the RM told A to correct itself. But it appears to me 
that this was as the result of a genuine mistake by the RM, and I note that the details of the 
amendment that the RM asked A to make before returning the loan documents had already 
been discussed and agreed with A by the RM before A was sent the documents to complete.
Ive also considered As related point that its unhappy with the number of different RMs that 
were assigned to the business relationship following its transferral to the GRG, which A feels 
had a detrimental effect to the standard of service provided to A by RBS.
I can understand why the turnover of RMs would have been frustrating for A, but it can be 
the case that staff movement and attrition can lead to times where its necessary for a bank 
to assign new RMs to a business relationship in a relatively short space of time.
Its also notable that the change of RMs doesnt appear to have affected RBSs overall 
approach to the continuing business relationship, and I havent seen any evidence which I 
feel demonstrates that a change in the assigned RM has directly led to the provision of sub-
standard service to A by RBS.
A have also complained that it feels that RBS pressured it to find a different financing partner 
and to move the banking relationship away from RBS. A believes that the reason for this was 
because the five-year loan restructuring that was agreed by the RM at that time hadnt been 
centrally approved by RBS. A is also unhappy that RBS asked it to put forwards a settlement 
proposal for the lending that was then rejected by RBS.
I note a letter sent to A by RBS in November 2015 which explains that RBS would consider 
selling some, or all, of the lending that A held, if A were unable to refinance or repay the 
lending within the next six months.
Its understandable that this would have been of concern to A, but I havent seen that RBSs 
position here goes against the terms of the loan restructuring that it agreed with A in 
December 2013. And while that restructuring was agreed over a five-year term, I havent 
seen that the restructuring precluded RBS from selling the lending, either in whole or in 
portion, before the end of that five-year term.
What would be expected by this service is that RBS would have engaged with A and clearly 
communicated to it the possibility and conditions of any sale of debt. And thats what RBS 
appear to have done here. And while the content of the communication may have been 
disturbing for A, I dont feel that I can fairly censure RBS for clearly communicating with A 
about potential developments, as such communication is what this service would expect.
I also havent seen any evidence to suggest that RBSs consideration of a sale of As debt 
was motivated by the restructured lending not have being centrally approved following its 
negotiation by the RM responsible for the business relationship at that time  although I must 
note that even if RBSs motivations were as A contends here, Im not convinced that any 
form of unfair treatment of A could be considered as having occurred as a result.
And finally, while I can appreciate that A was asked to put forward a proposal to settle the 
outstanding borrowing  which A subsequently did - I dont feel that it was incumbent on RBS to have accepted that proposal if RBS felt that it was counter to its business interests to 
do so, which in this case RBS did.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that RBS have acted unfairly towards A in the 
manner that A alleges here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing RBS to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that A would have wanted, but I trust that it will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman