DRN-4463061
The complaint
Mr S complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) for its cash settlement offer following a 
substantial leak at his home. He wants UKI to increase its offer of settlement to match the 
quotes he has received. 
What happened
Mr S insured his home with UKI. 
In May 2023 his home suffered an escape of water. A flexi hose pipe burst under the sink in 
the upstairs bathroom, causing extensive water damage to a number of rooms. 
Mr S submitted a claim to UKI
UKI sent its assessor to Mr Ss home around 6 days after the claim. The assessor was an 
agent for UKI and they prepared a report of the damage and a schedule of remedial work. 
Mr S did not wish the contractor to carry out repairs as he had seen bad reviews of the 
company and he felt that the contractor would cut corners in his repairs, leaving him with a 
poor standard of work. He declined a further appointment to further assess the damage. 
UKI offered Mr S a cash settlement sum based on the cost it would have incurred if its own 
contractors had carried out the repairs. 
Mr S obtained his own quotes and provided these to UKI. 
The quotes Mr S had obtained were substantially higher than UKIs offer. Mr S felt that this 
was evidence that the standard of repairs being offered by UKIs contractors was lower. 
Mr S complained to UKI. He was upset that the sum offered was lower than he could obtain 
repairs, and he was also concerned that UKI had refused to replace his table and chairs 
which he said were damaged by the escape of water.
UKI sent its final response in July 2023. UKI maintained its cash settlement offer and 
explained that this was reached in line with the policy terms. It declined cover for the table 
and chairs as it said the legs of these were made from non-porous material and were not 
damaged by the leak. It considered that these could be cleaned rather than replaced. 
Mr S was not happy and contacted us. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter and set out their view. They did not recommend 
that the complaint be upheld because the cash settlement was reached in line with the policy 
terms. They did not consider that it was unreasonable to offer cleaning rather than 
replacement of the table and chairs. 
Mr S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read my colleagues view, and this is thorough and reasoned. As the investigator set 
out, the terms for the settlement allow the business to offer cash settlement based on the 
amount it would have cost the business to carry out the works itself. 
We expect that businesses properly indemnify customers and so our approach is that a 
business must offer a sufficient offer to repair the damage. I can see that the business 
offered for its contractors to carry out the repairs and Mr S did not want to have UKIs 
contractors do the work. It also offered cleaning for the table and chairs in the first instance. 
Mr S is entitled to decline and to engage his own contractors, but where a consumer 
chooses to cash settle instead of have repairs done then the business is entitled to calculate 
settlement using its own negotiated rates. 
UKI has provided the scope of works which was used as basis of its settlement to us and 
this matches the work quoted by Mr Ss contractors, save that UKI declined to settle some 
damage which to considered was not caused by the leak. 
I am satisfied that UKI has calculated its cash settlement offer fairly, and in line with the 
policy terms. It has offered Mr S that it can carry out the repairs and I would expect that this 
offer remains open to Mr S. 
If he chooses to have UKI carry out the repairs he would be able to expect a reasonable 
standard of work to restore his property to its previous condition. If UKI did not achieve this, 
then Mr S would be able to complain about the standard of work done at that time. 
If Mr S still does not wish UKI to carry out the repairs, then I think UKIs cash settlement offer 
fair and in line with our usual approach. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view, and I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. I 
realise that this will be disappointing to Mr S but I hope that it is clear why I have reached it. I 
hope Mr S is able to commence repairs quickly and have his home restored to its previous 
condition. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and I do not ask U K 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman