DRN-3652538
The complaint
Mr F complains that Computershare Investor Services Plc - trading as Computershare Plan 
Managers - unreasonably sold shares hed bought as part of an employee share scheme. 
Mr F says hed given an instruction to transfer the shares instead.
What happened
Mr F was a member of his employers share incentive plan. His employer made
Computershare Trustees Limited the trustees of that plan. They would receive money Mr F
had agreed to contribute to the plan, and use it to buy shares that would then be held by the
trustees on Mr Fs behalf.
The plan  and some of the trustees actions  were administered by Computershare Plan
Managers. Thats a trading name covering a few different companies. But it includes
Computershare Investor Services Plc.
In 2021, Mr Fs employer appears to have sold the part of the business that Mr F was
working for. That meant Mr F couldnt be part of the share incentive plan any more. So
Computershare Plan Managers wrote to him, saying he needed to use a specific piece of
software to say what he wanted to happen to the shares he had.
Mr F seems to have had two options. He could either tell Computershare to transfer his
shares to a new platform. Or he could tell them he wanted to sell the shares, and receive
their value. It seems that if Mr F gave no instruction within 21 days, the trustees would have
the shares sold.
Its here the complaint arises. Mr F says he used the software he was directed to, and told
Computershare he wanted to transfer his shares to a new broker. In support of this, he notes
he added some details for the broker onto the system.
But Computershare say they have no trace of Mr F instructing them to transfer his shares.
They seem to acknowledge Mr F provided the broker details he mentioned, but note that the
system allows for broker details to be added without confirming a transfer instruction. The
two  it seems  are separate steps.
So Computershare say that without the instruction from Mr F, they sold the shares. Mr F
complains about that  saying he feels the share incentive plan doesnt allow the trustees to
have the shares sold like that.
When the complaint came to us, Computershare argued it fell outside of our jurisdiction. The
rules that govern our service have specific exemptions when it comes to employee share
incentive schemes. In simple terms  we cant usually look at complaints about the
employers providing the shares, or the trustees they appoint to hold them on a plan
members behalf.
One of our Ombudsman looked into this and decided there was only one aspect of the 
complaint that we could consider, this being The action to seek members instructions about 
selling shares  . 
The Ombudsman concluded their decision saying We can look at Mr Fs complaint that 
Computershare Investor Services Plc trading as Computershare Plan Managers sold his 
shares after unreasonably ignoring an instruction hed given them to transfer the shares 
outside of the employee share scheme. So this is the only aspect of the complaint we can 
consider.
One of our Investigators went on to look into that issue and explained that there was a two-
step process involved. The evidence from Computershare shows the first step of entering 
new broker details had been completed, but there was no evidence the second part was 
completed giving the instruction to transfer. Because of this they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F remained unhappy so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear how strongly he 
feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr F that Ive read and considered everything 
thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of what 
happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
When dealing with our Investigator Mr F said he was unhappy as he didnt think we had 
addressed the root cause of the complaint which was that Computershare hadnt followed 
the rules of the plan with regards to the cut off date and the selling of the shares. 
However as the Ombudsman explained in their jurisdiction decision this isnt something we 
can consider as the activity of selling the shares doesnt fall within our rules. The only part of 
the complaint we can consider is the administrative process of collecting the information by 
Computershare. This is an important distinction. So its not that our Investigator or I have 
overlooked the issue of selling the shares, its that this isnt something we can comment on.  
When gathering information about plan members intentions for a transfer there was a two-
stage process. First they had to enter details of a broker, and then they had to request a 
transfer separately.
All parties agree that Mr F completed the first stage of the process by adding broker details, 
but its the second stage of the process which is in dispute. 
Mr F has asked why would he upload brokers details except for the purpose of making a 
transfer? And I agree; there would be no point in doing so if he didnt want to transfer the 
shares. So his intentions are not in doubt, but that doesnt necessarily mean that 
Computershare made any errors. 
However I need to take into account both sides so therefore I must also consider what 
Computershare have to say. They say theres no record of the transfer being requested; if 
there was, it would have been actioned. And Im persuaded that no such evidence exists. In 
order to say that Computershare made a mistake Id have to see that a transfer instruction 
was received but not actioned; and I dont think thats the case. I cant say why the transfer instruction from Mr F wasnt received, but Im persuaded that it 
wasnt. Computershare say there werent any system problems at the time so its possible 
that maybe Mr F didnt fully complete stage two of the process, or that there was some other 
kind of error unrelated to Computershares systems. I also note that Mr F didnt receive any 
acknowledgement that the transfer request had been received. 
Having carefully considered all of the information Im satisfied Computershare acted fairly 
and reasonably when dealing with Mr F so I wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman