DRN-4270935
The complaint
Mr D complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct 
(Hastings) misquoted a premium to change a car on his policy and then wouldnt honour it. 
Mr D is represented in this case, but for ease Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
Mr D had a motor insurance policy with Hastings covering his car.
He was looking to change his car. He found a replacement and used Hastings app to get a 
quote for the new car.
He says that the app showed the cost to change the car was £20. This relatively small cost 
was a key factor in his choice to replace the car, so he bought the replacement.
When he tried to add the new car to the policy, the additional premium was about £683 plus 
an administration fee of £20.
Mr D wasnt happy about this, and he complained. Hastings said it didnt retain the quote as 
it had been overwritten with quotes for other cars Mr D was thinking of buying. But it thought 
Mr D had confused the administration fee of £20 with the actual quote to change the car.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He asks that Hastings 
refund the extra amount hed paid.  Our investigator looked into his complaint and thought it 
wouldnt be upheld. She said Hastings had shown the app agreed with its system.
Mr D didnt agree with the view, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I do appreciate this will 
be a considerable disappointment to him, and Ill explain why Ive arrived at this decision. 
In his initial approach to this service Mr D said: I obtained an insurance quote via the 
change of vehicle option and was advised it would only cost a £20 admin fee.
Hastings said the screen on the app that provides the quote says: The quoting system does 
state 'the fee to make this change is £20' however [it] also states the annual premium 
change figure below.
Mr D didnt take a screenshot of the price he says he was quoted as he didnt think there 
would be a problem.
I can see from Mr D that when he called Hastings to discuss this, it wasnt able to view the 
earlier quote he said hed had.
I asked Hastings about this. It said its system overwrites each quote, so when Mr D had 
checked the price itd removed any ability to see the earlier quote.
Hastings told Mr D it had no ability to change the premium he would be charged.
Mr D has said he thinks that if a good or service is advertised at a price, even if its wrong, 
the company should honour that price.
Ive thought carefully about this and Ive asked for more information from Hastings about its 
processes. 
Ive said above that its system means that only the most recent quote is held which I 
understand is a limitation of it. Unfortunately this means theres no evidence that Mr D was 
told the cost would only be £20; but also theres no evidence that he wasnt.
I can hear from the conversations hes had with Hastings about the strength of Mr Ds 
feelings about this. Ive no doubt that he thinks he was told the cost was only £20. He told 
his family and the vendor of the car about the £20 cost of the insurance and I sympathise 
with him about the financial impact of buying the car and paying the extra for the policy. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think its more likely than not that the correct figure 
was displayed to Mr D when he did the initial quote, but for whatever reason he didnt notice 
or realise what he was being shown. So on the balance of probabilities I think its fair I say 
Hastings did tell him the right price and unfortunately I cant uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D has also talked about pursuing this matter further in court. This is his right.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman