DRN-4133846
The complaint
Mr P complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited avoided his car insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim
What happened
In August 2021 Mr P took out a car insurance policy with Calpe Insurance through an online
comparison website.
In March 2022 his car was hit while stationary and damaged. So Mr P made a claim to
Calpe.
Calpe said hed answered the question it asked about a previous motoring conviction in April
2018 incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy, decline his claim because of this and
keep the premium Mr P had already paid.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be upheld. Although
he agreed that Mr P had misrepresented the facts about his motoring conviction, he didnt
agree it had been deliberate or reckless. And so in line with the law around
misrepresentation, the Investigator recommended Calpe deal with Mr Ps claim on a
proportionate basis - in line with the percentage increase it would have charged him for
cover if it had known about the motoring conviction.
The Investigator recommended Calpe do the following to put things right:
reinstate the policy on the amended terms, deal with Mr Ps claim based on those
terms and in the event of a settlement being made, apply 8% simple interest from
the date the policy was avoided to the date of settlement.
remove the avoidance from any external databases and provide Mr P with a letter
that explains this.
Pay Mr P £200 compensation for the considerable distress and inconvenience 
Calpe caused by its decision.
Calpe didnt reply to the Investigators view. Mr P said the compensation isnt enough to
reflect the impact of Calpes decision. He wants Calpe to refund the premium he paid for
cover. Mr P explained that hed paid over £5,000 to insure his car and had to continue to pay
the monthly instalments even though his car wasnt roadworthy and required repair.
Mr P said he paid over £20,000 to have his car repaired. He said he had to work extra hours
to source a deposit to pay the garage to order parts - and says he went into debt on credit
cards which accrued interest to fund the remaining repairs.
Mr P says he is still paying those debts off. He says he did all he could to assist with Calpes
investigation into the claim and its decision caused him considerable stress over a period of
a year.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 April 2023. I thought Calpe should pay Mr P £500 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. As I intended to ask Calpe 
to deal with Mr Ps claim, I explained that the premium would be correctly owed under the 
policy. 
Calpe didnt reply to my provisional decision. Mr P asked why instead Calpe should deduct 
the premium difference and meet his claim in full. 
I explained that under CIDRA, an insurer isnt required to do this, but should meet his claim - 
where the misrepresentation was careless - on a proportionate basis. What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I havent received any new information to change my provisional findings, my final 
decision is on the same lines as my provisional decision. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Calpe Insurance thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
when he said he didnt have any motoring convictions in the past five years when he applied
for the policy. But Mr P had a motoring conviction in April 2018. He said the reason why he
didnt declare it was because it had expired on his driving licence - and so he thought it didnt
apply.
Calpe has provided a screenshot of the question Mr P was asked and Im satisfied it was
clear. So I think Mr P didnt take reasonable care when answering it.
In Calpes response to Mr Ps complaint, it says it wouldnt have offered Mr P a policy on the
same terms if it had known about his motoring conviction from April 2018.
We asked Calpe to provide evidence of what it would have done differently. It provided an
underwriting guide dated October 2021. This is after Mr P applied for the policy in August
2021 and answered the key question incorrectly about his motoring conviction. So I cant
take this into account as evidence of Calpes underwriting criteria which applied at the time.
In an email dated 19 December 2022 to this service, Calpe confirmed that its underwriters
would have applied a 15% increase to the policy premium if it had known about the motoring
conviction. So Calpe says it would have provided Mr P with a policy, but on different terms.
While Im satisfied that Mr Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one, I think it was careless.
I find his explanation as to why he failed to disclose the motoring conviction means he failed
to take reasonable care, rather than act deliberately or recklessly.
As Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the
actions General Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA set out different remedies which an insurer can take, depending on whether the
misrepresentation was careless, or deliberate or reckless.
As Calpe decided the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, it avoided the policy and
kept the premium, even though it was able to offer a policy on different terms.
If the misrepresentation is found to be careless, an insurer can charge more to reflect the
difference in premium it would have charged if it had known the correct information. Where
there has been a claim, an insurer can instead pay the claim proportionately.I think this is what Calpe should have done in this case. So I dont agree with the actions it
took.
Therefore, as Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation was careless rather than reckless or
deliberate, I dont think Calpe Insurance acted fairly by avoiding his policy and not paying his
claim. CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases. As
explained above, had Calpe Insurance known about Mr Ps motoring conviction, it still would
have offered a policy, but on different terms.
Not meeting Mr Ps claim has clearly had a significant impact on Mr P. He was left to pay for
his policy and also meet the costs of the repairs to his car. I can understand this must have
caused him significant distress and worry about the financial implications. Had Calpe dealt
with Mr Ps claim in a fair way and in line with CIDRA, these are costs Mr P wouldnt have
had to cover.
From the information I have, I think Calpe should pay more than £200 compensation to
reflect the impact of its decision. I think Calpe should pay Mr P £500 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience and impact its decision had on Mr P, in addition to the other
recommendations made by the Investigator.
As Im requiring Calpe to meet Mr Ps claim, the premium due under the policy is correctly
due as its met its obligations under the policy. I dont know if Mr P paid for alternative cover
elsewhere. If he did, I think Calpe should reimburse Mr P for the period he was dually
insured subject to reasonable proof from Mr P
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
to do the following:
oReinstate Mr Ps policy and meet his claim on a proportionate basis (85%) 
under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
oSubject to reasonable proof, reimburse Mr P for 85% of the costs of 
repairs and pay interest on the amount at a rate of 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of reimbursement.
oRemove any record of the avoidance from external databases.
oSubject to reasonable proof, reimburse Mr P for any period he was dually 
insured if this applies. Pay interest on the reimbursement from the date of 
payment to the date of reimbursement at a rate of 8% simple interest a 
year.
oPay Mr P £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Calpe Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman