DRN-3281051
The complaint
Mr W has complained to Phoenix Life Limited trading as SunLife about his Guaranteed Over 
50 Plans as he has paid in more than the policies are now worth.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr W appealed. The 
facts are not in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr W will be disappointed by my decision but I agree with the conclusion 
reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr W took out two policies. The first he took out in 2011. For a monthly premium of 
£5 there was a fixed cash sum payable on death of £400. The second was taken out 
in 2012. For a monthly premium of £22 there was a fixed cash sum payable on death 
of £2100. SunLife didnt give Mr W any advice, but it was obliged to pay due regard 
to his information needs and communicate information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading. Ive carefully considered the documentation that Mr W was 
provided with and Im satisfied that SunLife met its obligations and that the way the 
policy worked was clear.
Mr W feels that there should be a welcome phone call to new members. I agree that 
this may have been helpful but SunLife wasnt obliged to do this, so I cant say it has 
done anything wrong in not making an introductory call. However I note that the 
policy does say If you have any questions about your policy, or need to update us, 
please call our friendly UK-based team on (number given). 
Im satisfied that Mr W received the policy documents as he hasnt said otherwise 
and has quoted from them. The policy states that it doesnt have a cash-in value, 
premiums are payable for life and the pay-out sum is fixed. The policy also explains 
that:
Depending on how long you live, the total premiums paid may be greater than the 
cash sum payable on death.
So I cant agree with Mr Ws submission that its not made clear you may end up 
paying more than you will get back.
Mr W feels that the policys reference to maximum monthly premiums and life cover 
are misleading. However I dont agree. The policy explains the most a customer 
could pay per month and the highest amount of cover they could receive. His 
individual schedule made it clear what he had agreed to pay and for how much 
cover.
However if Mr W wasnt happy he did have the option to cancel the policies within a 
certain time frame from the receipt of the policy documents. Any premium paid would 
have been returned. Mr W didnt exercise that option within the number of days 
specified, and as the policy documents were clear and not misleading there is no 
basis for me to now require SunLife to return the premiums Mr W paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman