DRN-1507039
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Lloyds Bank Plc breached data protection laws by sending their 
statements and cheque books to an incorrect address.
What happened
In early 2019, Mr and Mrs P each separately attended a Lloyds branch to update their 
addresses on its system. Mr Ps details were correctly amended but Mrs Ps werent. 
Mistakenly Lloyds had instead added an incorrect address which was also linked to any 
accounts she held with Mr P. 
A few months later, Mr and Mrs P contacted Lloyds as they hadnt received any statements. 
It became apparent Lloyds had sent their statements and cheque books to the incorrect 
address. Lloyds investigated and assured Mr and Mrs P that the occupants had returned the 
post unopened and that this had been destroyed. But it appeared Lloyds had continued to 
send correspondence to the incorrect address. 
Mr and Mrs P spoke to the occupants directly who confirmed the post was unopened and 
returned. They then raised a complaint. Lloyds upheld the complaint, acknowledging its error 
and offered them £300 compensation to put things right. Mr and Mrs P didnt feel this was 
enough and brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said Lloyds hadnt handled Mr and Mrs Ps personal information as it should 
have. But he felt Lloyds offer of compensation was fair so he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and said the crux of their complaint was not the use of an incorrect 
address. Instead they said their personal financial affairs had been made public and theyve 
been put at a high risk of fraud. And they felt a sum of £150 each didnt represent a fair 
outcome. So the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must explain at the outset that I cant make a finding about whether or not Lloyds breached 
any data protection laws when it sent Mr and Mrs Ps statements and cheque books to an 
incorrect address. Thats a matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) instead. 
However, I can look at whether Lloyds breached Mr and Mrs Ps confidentially and whether it 
treated them fairly, taking into account the impact any mistake has had on them. 
That said, the key facts about this complaint are not in dispute. Lloyds has admitted it got 
things wrong and sent Mr and Mrs Ps information and details to a third party. So the only 
issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things right, including the 
amounts of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable. 
I think its right that Lloyds should compensate Mr and Mrs P for the trouble and upset 
caused by incorrectly recording their address details. But I think its important to explain that, 
as a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers  not fine or punish 
businesses. 
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful 
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances when determining whether any 
award for trouble and upset is warranted. When doing so, we look at what actually happened 
as a result of the mistake  not what couldve happened. 
I appreciate it must have been worrying and upsetting for Mr and Mrs P to learn that their 
financial information had been sent to an incorrect address. And it seems likely this wouldve 
caused some degree of frustration and inconvenience to them.
But I think Lloyds has recognised the seriousness of its mistake and this is reflected in the 
amount of compensation awarded. I say this because its not clear to me whether there has 
been an actual breach of personal data, given that Mr and Mrs Ps post was returned to 
Lloyds unopened and subsequently destroyed. 
And based on everything Ive seen, there arent any financial losses as a result of this 
mistake. I understand Lloyds has said it will reconsider any losses or compensation should 
any issues arise in the future  and Im satisfied this is fair. 
Ive noted all the things Mr and Mrs P has said about what couldve happened and may 
happen in the future. But as Ive explained, I can only look at what has happened. And for 
the reasons given, Im satisfied the compensation Lloyds has offered is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the case. 
So Im not upholding this complaint or directing Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman