DRN-2074860
The complaint
Mr C says HSBC UK Bank Plc has not fairly compensated him for the mis-sale of payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C contacted HSBC in 2019 to complain about a PPI policy. He sent HSBC six credit card 
statements dating from December 1988 to May 1989 all of which showed hed been charged 
for PPI.
HSBC responded by saying it was unable to trace Mr C on its systems. Unhappy with 
HSBCs response to his complaint Mr C asked this service to step in.
We re-sent HSBC the statements and it agreed to make Mr C an offer.
HSBC made Mr C an offer totalling £54.86. This was made up of:
£17.77 which was the total PPI premiums shown on the six statements;
£0.62 which was the credit card interest HSBC said Mr C had been charged because of the 
PPI premiums;
£36.47 which was compensatory interest (less tax) for the time Mr C had been out of pocket. 
Mr C remained unhappy with HSBCs offer. He said that although he had only been able to 
find six statements, he actually held the account for around three years.
Our adjudicator wrote to HSBC. The adjudicator agreed with Mr C that the offer was not fair. 
They asked HSBC to recalculate the offer assuming Mr C held the account with PPI for three 
years from December 1988. The adjudicator also asked HSBC to pay Mr C compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience it had caused Mr C to experience when it initially said it 
couldnt trace him.
HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators findings. It said it was unwilling to produce a new 
calculation but it did agree to pay Mr C an additional £25 for distress and inconvenience.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont look 
into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mr C. In this decision I am only looking at whether 
HSBCs offer is fair.
Having done so I dont think HSBCs offer is fair and it needs to do something different. Ill 
explain why.
When a PPI has been mis-sold Id expect the business to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd be in if the PPI had not been sold. That would normally involve refunding the 
PPI premiums, any interest the consumer paid because of the PPI, plus compensatory 
interest.
In this case it isnt clear how long Mr C held the credit card account or for how long the PPI 
was attached to the account. Mr C has told us he has no other statements and HSBC has 
told us it has no records of that particular account. That isnt surprising as businesses are 
not obliged to keep records indefinitely. But equally I dont think it is fair or reasonable to 
expect Mr C to have kept comprehensive records.
In cases like this where there is missing information this service would expect the business 
to make reasonable assumptions from the evidence available.
Looking at the statements provided by Mr C I think its fair to assume the account and the 
PPI began in November 1988. I say this Because the statement from December 1988 shows 
a zero-opening balance, so its likely this was the first statement.
And looking at the statement for May 1989 I can see it has an outstanding balance. If the six 
statements represented a full set from opening to closure of the account Id expect to see a 
final statement with a zero balance.
So I think Mr C held the account beyond May 1989. Hes recalled he held the account for 
around three years. This seems a reasonable estimate and in the absence of any other 
evidence or suggestion from HSBC I think its fair to assume Mr C opened the account in 
November 1988 and closed it in November 1991 and PPI was charged during this time.
HSBC doesnt have statements from June 1989 to November 1991 so when re-calculating 
the redress it owes Mr C it should make reasonable assumptions about Mr Cs balance 
based on the evidence from the six statements Mr C has provided.
Ive also thought about how HSBC dealt with Mr Cs complaint. HSBC originally told Mr C it 
couldnt trace him on its systems. But in July 2020 it told us that although it couldnt trace this 
particular account, it had in fact been able to trace Mr C and hed held two other accounts 
within the HSBC group. Mr C had sent HSBC statements to show he held PPI with HSBC 
but it wasnt until this service re-sent the statements that HSBC made Mr C an offer. I think 
this caused Mr C unnecessary inconvenience so I award Mr C £50 to compensate him for 
this. 
Putting things right
HSBC should put Mr C in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
When making the calculations below, HSBC should assume Mr C opened his credit card 
account in November 1988 and closed it in November 1991. It should assume PPI was 
applied throughout this time. Where there is missing information HSBC should make 
reasonable assumptions about Mr Cs balance.
A. HSBC should find out how much Mr C would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. HSBC should then refund the difference between what Mr C owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. HSBC should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr C would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year (15% before April 1993). 
C. If  when HSBC works out what Mr C would have owed each month without PPI  Mr C 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, HSBC should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr C 
wouldve owed HSBC something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year (15% before April 1993) 
D. HSBC should tell Mr C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
In addition to the above HSBC should pay Mr C £50.00 for the distress and inconvenience 
he has experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr C 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman