DRN-2543569
The complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002 by post. The policy was
taken out at the same time as Mr B applied for the credit card. It gave him accident,
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr B says PPI was meant to be optional and he wasnt given a choice; he assumes it was 
added without his knowledge. But the credit card application form Mr B completed shows he 
ticked a box indicating that he wanted to take out PPI. And I havent found anything on the 
form that I think could reasonably have led Mr B to believe the PPI was mandatory. He 
applied by post  so without any direct contact with Barclays. And I cant see any evidence 
to support his claim that it was added without his knowledge. Overall, I think Barclays made 
Mr B aware the PPI was optional, and he chose to take it. I can understand he might not 
remember this given how long ago the sale was.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt need to check if it was suitable for
him. This means it was up to Mr B to decide whether the policy was right for him bearing
in mind his other ways to make his credit card repayments if his circumstances changed.
I agree its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it should have been. But Mr B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have
wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and
the policy was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered, and apparently affordable. Mr B 
was entitled to just statutory sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months 
for all successful accident and sick claims. It also gave him up to 12 months
redundancy cover. Mr B says his partner and friends would have helped but thats not 
suitable alternative cover, its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. So, 
based on his circumstances and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell
Mr B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman