DRN-2807196
The complaint
Miss B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unfairly refused her critical 
illness claim.    
What happened
Miss B took out an Aviva decreasing term assurance policy in June 2013. It offers her both 
life and critical illness cover, with an initial sum assured of £126,365. The policy is set up to 
run until 2038.  
In 2020, Miss B made a claim to Aviva for critical illness under her policys cancer definition. 
She had sadly been diagnosed with dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP), a very rare 
type of cancer with an International Classification of Diseases code for malignant neoplasm, 
connective and soft tissue of abdomen. 
Aviva reviewed the medical information, but said it could not meet the claim. Specifically, it 
said that it took the view that DFSP was a type of skin cancer, and therefore excluded by the 
policy.   
Miss B complained. She said Aviva had unreasonably refused her claim and that her 
consultant was clear that she had met the policy terms.  
In late 2020, Aviva refused the complaint. It said it remained of the view that DFSP was a 
type of sarcoma confined to the skin, and therefore excluded by the policy wording. It 
explained that this had been confirmed by Dr C, a medical expert that it had consulted 
generally about DFSP following a previous claim complaint referred to this service. This view 
was also supported by its Chief Medical Officer (CMO), who is a consultant oncologist. 
Aviva did agree to put the medical opinion to Miss Bs treating consultant. And whilst the 
consultant disagreed with Aviva, it remained of the opinion that the policy wording exclusion 
was applicable to Miss Bs claim. 
It therefore maintained the outcome on the complaint, noting that the cover offered by the 
policy for skin cancer was only for invasive malignant melanoma or other skin cancers that 
have metastasised  which wasnt the case for Miss B. The claim for DFSP was therefore 
not covered by the critical illness policy wording for cancer. 
Miss B remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. In doing so, she made 
some further comments. She noted how her condition was a type of sarcoma which had 
grown beyond the layers of the skin  and therefore the policy exclusion did not apply. 
Her consultant, Mr P, had confirmed that he had excised Miss Bs sarcoma and that it had 
progressed beyond the layers of the skin. He was asked in the report for Aviva of August 
2020 to please state the deepest layer of tissue that the tumour was reported in by the 
histology report, to which he confirmed DFSP tumour infiltrates through deep fat just above 
fascia overlying skeletal muscle.
An investigator reviewed the complaint and said he did not think it should succeed. He noted 
that while he did not dispute Miss B had suffered with a sarcoma, he also agreed it was a 
type of skin cancer. He said that he felt Avivas medical expert had clearly explained how 
DFSP was a type of soft tissue neoplasm and that strictly speaking any neoplasm arising 
primarily in the skin should be regarded as skin cancer. 
Since almost all types of skin cancer (bar two specific severities of malignant melanoma and 
carcinoma) were excluded under the policy wording, he could not say that Aviva had acted 
unfairly by refusing the claim.  
He also noted that whilst Miss Bs DFSP extended into further layers of tissue, Aviva had 
said Miss Bs cancer arose in the dermis, and therefore where it extended to without 
metastasis wasnt relevant  the policy wording made clear that if a claim was made for a 
type of skin cancer, a valid claim required evidence of invasion, spread to lymph nodes or 
metastasis; these did not apply to Miss B. 
Miss B said she did not accept the investigators view. She said a payment should have 
been made to her irrespective of whether her cancer had metastasised because she had 
suffered from a sarcoma, as characterised in the policy wording.  
Our investigator reconsidered his view. And he believed that the complaint now ought to be 
upheld. Having reflected on Mr Ps comments regarding the excision of Miss Bs tumour, he 
revisited his view that it could be classed as a sarcoma as well as a type of skin cancer, and 
he concluded it was both. Therefore it was not fully excluded by the policy terms; skin cancer 
had an exclusion regarding progression of a specified type. In respect of sarcomas, the 
policy wording only excluded cutaneous lymphoma  and that didnt apply to Miss B.  
He further explained that he felt any vague wording in the definition should be read in Miss 
Bs favour, and therefore a claim ought to be paid.  
Aviva disagreed and asked for a decision. It said the exclusions needed to be applied 
objectively. That a sarcoma other than cutaneous lymphoma was covered did not mean that 
DFSP was incapable of being excluded under the additional skin cancer exclusions. The full 
name of the sarcoma (dermo) implied that it is a cancer of the skin, and referred on that 
basis to a dermatologist. 
Further, Aviva explained that the fact DFSP is a skin cancer comprising sarcoma cells didnt 
separate it from the other types of skin cancer which could still be considered malignant. It 
pointed out that its expert and the weight of independent material supported how the skin is 
made of three layers, the third of which is the subcutaneous layer. 
In any event, Aviva remained of the view that whether the subcutaneous tissue is considered 
to be skin or not is not the relevant determining factor, as Miss Bs cancer arose in the 
dermis (second layer of skin). This did not constitute metastasis or spread to lymph nodes.
Whilst awaiting an ombudsmans decision, Aviva sent in further medical information from a 
second pathology expert, Professor N. It said he had set out how DFSP was a skin cancer 
and added further weight to the view of Dr C and its CMO; and so a claim could not be paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Id like to thank both parties for their patience whilst this matter has awaited an 
ombudsmans decision. 
I recognise that Aviva has referred to another decision by a different ombudsman from this 
service that has similar circumstances, for which it originally obtained the general report from 
Dr C about DFSP. 
To be clear, while the report is evidence I have considered, previous complaints do not 
establish fixed precedents for subsequent ones. I will be mindful of relevant law, industry 
standards, relevant guidance and accepted approaches when considering a complaint. 
However, each complaint brought to this service will be decided on its own facts and merits. 
Ive taken into account the evidence provided about Miss Bs specific condition along with 
the information relied upon by Aviva to decide if a claim has been met against the relevant 
policy wording. I believe the complaint ought to succeed. Ill set my out my reasons below. 
Under the terms of Miss Bs policy, cancer is defined as:
Cancer
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and 
characterised by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue. 
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, lymphoma and sarcoma except 
cutaneous lymphoma (lymphoma confined to the skin).
For the above definition the following are not covered:
all cancers which are histologically classified as any of the following:
 pre-malignant
 non-invasive
 cancer in situ
 having either borderline malignancy; or
 having low malignant potential
all tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason 
score greater than six or having progressed to at least clinical TNM 
classification T2N0M0
chronic lymphocytic leukaemia unless histologically classified as having 
progressed to at least Binet Stage A
any skin cancer (including cutaneous lymphoma) other than:
 malignant melanoma that has been histologically classified as having 
caused invasion beyond the epidermis (outer layer of skin) or
 the occurrence of a malignant basal cell carcinoma or malignant 
squamous cell carcinoma positively diagnosed with histological 
confirmation and characterised by the uncontrolled growth of malignant 
cells and invasion of tissue.
To satisfy the definition of skin cancer in this bullet point, the skin 
cancer must have invaded and spread to lymph nodes or metastasised 
to distant organs [my emphasis]
In essence, Miss B argues that her condition satisfies the first part of the definition in that her 
sarcoma is a malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells 
and invasion of tissue. Aviva disputes that and says the subsequent wording for the above 
definition, the following are not covered clarifies that the exclusions listed thereafter apply 
irrespective of meeting the earlier definition. So, whilst the wording sets out that sarcomas 
are included in the term malignant tumour, that has no effect on the exclusion still applying. Aviva categorises DFSP as a soft tissue cancer and a skin cancer. It has provided two 
medical expert assessments from Dr C, a specialist at a UK leading dermatology institute 
and Professor N. These are not specific medical reports relating to Miss B. Rather, it asked 
for a report which addressed whether DFSP was considered a skin cancer and whether the 
subcutaneous fat layer was part of the skin  which was positively confirmed by Dr C and 
reinforced by Professor N. Aviva has based its refusal of the claim on the first specialised 
expert opinion, with the second being sent to us to reiterate the same view. 
On 21 December 2020, Aviva wrote to Dr P, putting forward the report it had obtained about 
DFSP from Dr C who had been involved in the Working Group created by the World Health 
Organization (WHO) for the classification of tumours in the fields of soft tissue tumours and 
skin tumours. That report concluded DFSP was a soft tissue neoplasm that presented 
primarily in the skin. It gave Mr P a summary of the report, and clarified though Mr C had not 
seen Miss Bs specific presentation, its CMO confirmed that her DFSP was confined to the 
skin as it extended into but not through the deep subcutaneous fat  so it remained in the 
third, deepest layer of the skin. 
Mr P replied with additional clarification in January 2021. He firstly disputed the view of Dr C 
regarding the definition of subcutaneous. However, he then went further to clarify that Miss 
Bs cancer had gone beyond subcutaneous fat in any event. He said:
With regard to the 3rd last paragraph containing the line They confirmed this DFSP 
was confined to the skin as it extended into but not through the deep subcutaneous 
fat. This is entirely and provably incorrect. This DFSP extended through the deep 
subcutaneous fat as I excised this myself and was later shown to be present at the 
deep margin of this excision on the histology report. I would also emphasise this is 
the abdominal wall and so the distance between the subcutis and the bottom of the 
deep adipose layer is substantial compared to, for example, the forehead.
Though the second report from Professor N wasnt put to Mr P, I do not believe it would 
materially alter his clinical assessment.   
The report confirms how classification of DFSP can be either as a skin tumour or a soft 
tissue tumour within the different WHO books (as referenced by Dr C) and therefore it 
cannot be avoided that some tumours can be found in different classifications. It also 
reconfirms how medical assessments may differ regarding layers of the skin. 
The first paragraph of the report confirms in Professor Ns view that DFSP is a locally 
aggressive soft tissue tumour (sarcoma) of the skin*. However, in the footnote he confirms 
that *layers of the human skin (cutis): epidermis and dermis. The subcutaneous tissue, 
often also referred to as the hypodermis, is anatomically and formally (strictly speaking) not 
part of the skin according to anatomical nomenclature. However, since subcutaneous tissue 
is functionally and embryonically closely connected to the dermis, and since the exact border 
between the hypodermis and dermis can be difficult to be identified, subcutaneous tissue is 
frequently mentioned as part of the skin (pragmatic, clinical perspective; in the broader 
sense).
I recognise there are conflicting sets of medical opinions regarding DFSP and the 
classification of skin. And I note that Avivas CMO disputes Mr Ps conclusions on Miss Bs 
medical evidence. But its not my role to issue findings on which specialist is correct or has 
the most authority on a subjective matter. This service isnt a court; its set up to provide 
informal dispute resolution  and my duty is to determine a complaint by reference to what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And where there is conflicting evidence, Ill decide what I believe is the most persuasive, on balance.
Miss Bs consultant is an experienced specialist in the relevant treatment area of her cancer. 
And hes unequivocal in his view that Miss Bs DFSP extended through rather than merely 
into the deep subcutaneous fat layer. I see no fair reason why I ought to disregard that  Mr 
P conducted the excision and he gave his additional comments against the background of 
Mr Cs report being put to him in clear terms, none of which has differed materially from 
Professor Ns further report. 
As I recognised earlier in this decision, I realise Aviva has had a similar complaint referred 
for an ombudsman decision at this service where the complaint wasnt upheld. 
Notwithstanding my explanation above that no two cases are factually identical, my decision 
in this complaint is based on Miss Bs specific medical evidence. Having done so, I believe 
greater weight ought to be placed on Mr Ps assessment, as her qualified treating consultant.  
But, even if I was persuaded to disregard Mr Ps view in favour of the general evidence 
supplied by Aviva in respect of DFSP, I still believe that the fair and reasonable interpretation 
of the policy wording I have set out above should allow for Miss Bs specific claim. 
Ive considered Avivas comments carefully, but I dont agree that the cancer exclusion 
applies to Miss Bs circumstances. Its clear, given the conflicting medical opinion, that DFSP 
is not a conventional skin cancer. Dr Cs report covers this. He is asked can you explain 
what skin cancer is? and he says skin cancer is described as the autonomous growth of 
abnormal cells in the epidermis as a result of cumulative DNA damage that is not repaired 
and leads to mutations. Traditionally, neoplasms described as skin cancer include basal cell 
carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, melanoma and Merkel cell carcinoma. 
Dr C goes on to explain his professional view is that skin cancers should also include soft 
tissue tumours such as DFSP as the traditional view is too restrictive. However, the parties 
agree DFSP is a sarcoma that arises in the dermis or the subcutaneous layers of the skin, if 
it is accepted that the latter amounts to skin. On that basis, it doesnt rest clearly within the 
policy terms as an exclusion for any skin cancer, and it conflicts with Dr Cs explanation of 
what a skin cancer is. 
Im also mindful of the Association of British Insurers Statement of Best Practice for Critical 
Illness Cover from 2011, which was the applicable industry guidance when Miss Bs began 
her policy. The wording Aviva has used for Miss Bs cover is the proposed model wording, 
but it goes further by adding additional cover for carcinomas as well as a severity based 
exclusion (as I have emphasised in bold above). 
The wording cannot cover every conceivable type of cancer or illness that a policyholder 
may have. Instances will occur where the ABI definitions do not adequately address 
particular presentations of certain illnesses; it is for this reason that the definitions remain 
under both full and intermediate review, as determined by the ABI.
The wording provides for express exclusions where they differ from the main policy wording. 
For example, the wording includes an exclusion for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia unless 
histologically classified as having progressed to at least Binet Stage A. So, whilst leukaemia 
is expressly covered, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia is only covered if it meets a
specific level of severity. There is no such qualification in respect of sarcomas. 
Further, the wording is clear that for claims of cancer, sarcomas are covered (providing 
histological evidence that they are characterised in the way described regarding uncontrolled 
growth and invasion of tissue) unless the sarcoma is cutaneous lymphoma (lymphoma 
confined to the skin). If the policy wording had intended to exclude any sarcoma that arose in the skin, I would 
reasonably expect it to be expressly excluded in the same way as cutaneous lymphoma. I 
am also mindful that Aviva decided to incorporate additional skin cancer cover along with a 
further severity exclusion (which it was able to do under the ABI guidance provided none of 
the model wording was removed). If it was the case that sarcomas amounting to skin 
cancers were intended to be excluded in the policy wording, that would likely be set out. 
I believe the cancer definition is ambiguous as to whether a sarcoma presenting as 
extending through the deep subcutaneous fat is excluded from the cover. And it is this 
ambiguity in the terms that I believe should be interpreted in favour of Miss B in the particular 
circumstances of her claim, given the evidence Ive set out above.
In any event, Ive not seen persuasive evidence that Miss Bs sarcoma amounts to a skin 
cancer, such that the exclusion ought to apply, when her treating consultant says otherwise.  
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Miss B's critical illness claim in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Aviva did reasonably seek further clarification from Mr P regarding the presentation of her 
DFSP. On that basis, I believe it is fair to conclude the claim ought to have been accepted in 
January 2021  using two weeks after receipt of Mr Ps additional comments as a fair marker 
for when Aviva could have reviewed the evidence and should have paid out the claim. The 
sum assured should therefore be calculated as at that date.  
Interest should be added to the claim payment. This should be at a gross annual rate of 8%
simple, less tax (if properly deductible), from the date the claim shouldve been paid to the
date of settlement.
As cover under the policy ends at the point the claim is accepted, any premiums Miss B has
paid since that date should be refunded with interest at the same rate as above from the 
date each premium was paid to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
should pay Miss Bs claim for critical illness benefit, refund any extra premiums she has paid 
and add interest as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman