DRN-3768645
The complaint
Mr C complains that Casualty and General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd have declined 
part of his claim for treatment provided to his dog B.      
  
What happened
Mr C purchased a pet insurance policy from Casualty for his dog B in February 2021.
In December 2021 Mr Cs dog B went into hospital with an infection and required fluid 
therapy as part of his treatment because he wasnt eating or drinking and he had a high 
temperature. 
Casualty rejected the part of Mr Cs claim which related to fluid therapy, as they said that  
part of Bs treatment was excluded under the policy term which excluded Any claim for 
cosmetic, elective or routine treatment or any treatment which is preventative and not 
treating an illness or injury. They said that the notes didnt show that B had a high 
temperature or that the treatment was needed. Casualty settled on the rest of the claim.
Mr C complained to Casualty, saying that the treatment of administering fluid was life-saving 
and he disputed the decision. He provided additional evidence from his vet to support this. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and he thought that Casualty should 
reassess the claim taking into account the additional information now provided by Mr Cs vet 
which showed that the treatment was necessary.  
  
Casualty didnt respond, and so the case came to me to review. I asked Casualty to review 
the evidence provided by Mr Cs vet. They responded that they have reviewed it, but they 
havent changed their view. 
So, I reviewed all the evidence, and I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My 
provisional findings were as follows:
 
Casualty have refused the part of the claim for fluid treatment under the term in the policy 
which says excludes cover for: 
Any claim for cosmetic, elective or routine treatment or any treatment which is preventative 
and not treating an illness or injury
In their final response, Casualty have said that on 26 December 2021 B was seen by the vet 
as he had become lethargic and was suffering from yellow discharge and smelly discharge 
from prepuce. The vet noted he had been drinking okay but was off his food this morning.
On 31 December 2021 B was examined again and it was noted  QAR in kennel overnight. 
Eating well on admit and eaten chicken well this morning hand fed. They say temperature 
was recorded as 37.2 with a resting heart rate of 80 which would be considered normal.
They said that they consider fluid therapy to be a routine treatment that is included as part of 
other treatments, and so it isnt covered unless fluids are necessary to save the pets life and 
they wouldnt survive without the treatment. 
Mr Cs hospital vet has provided a very detailed letter dated 6 July 2022 explaining why it 
was necessary to give B fluids. She has said that B had a high temperature of 40.7 (Pyrexia) 
before fluids were given, which is why they were given, and that Bs temperature then 
reduced. She has also explained that they continued to provide fluids after that because B 
was regurgitating food and fluids, and was urinating, but wasnt drinking, and so continuation 
of treatment was a maintenance rate of fluid support to prevent dehydration. It was only 
withdrawn when B became able to keep food and drink down and take oral medication. 
This evidence was sent to Casualty in March 2022 and acknowledged by them on 24 March 
2022. It wasnt considered by them until December 2022, and they have advised that their 
decision remains unchanged.  
There is also an additional letter from Mr Cs vets which makes it clear that fluid therapy is 
never given routinely and an animal is only ever given fluids if they were losing more fluid 
than they were retaining, which can lead to dehydration. 
I have reviewed all this evidence, and I consider that this detailed account of the care given 
by the hospital vets makes it clear that Bs temperature was high, and in the range that 
would be considered a fever. I dont consider that hydrating B to bring down his temperature  
could be considered to be routine treatment as the evidence suggests that it was in 
response to his high temperature and the linked infection, and was administered to improve 
his condition. The hospital evidence then goes on to show that the further fluid therapy was 
to treat possible dehydration caused by the regurgitation, which can be life threatening. Im 
therefore satisfied that the evidence shows the fluid therapy isnt routine, and therefore I 
dont consider Casualty have fairly applied the exclusion in the policy. 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mr Cs complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mr C and Casualty a copy of my provisional decision. Neither have replied, so Im 
making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above.
  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Casualty should:
Reimburse Mr C for the part of the claim which relates to fluid therapy.  
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest on that sum from the date that payment was made until the 
date that the claim is settled. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and direct Casualty and General  
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to put things right as outlined above
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman