DRN-4193864
The complaint
Ms S complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund her for 23 transactions 
totalling £2,371.28 which she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 19 December 2022, Ms S rang Barclays. She said shed just had a transaction declined, 
so shed logged in and seen transactions abroad which she hadnt made.  On 12 December, 
a family member had paid in £2,000 and shed then withdrawn £30 cash. No-one had been 
around her at the machine at that time, and that was her last genuine transaction using the 
card. Ms S disputed 23 transactions which had started on 13 December. Ms S said she 
didnt check online banking regularly and hadnt had any notification to approve the 
payments. She said shed thought she had the card somewhere in the house but she 
couldnt find it. In the call Ms S twice told Barclays fraud adviser that she kept her PIN in the 
purse with her card.
Barclays cancelled Ms Ss card, and ordered a new one for her. It provided Ms S with a 
temporary credit while it investigated.
Barclays investigated, and on 29 December it wrote to tell Ms S it was holding her liable for 
the disputed transactions. It said it couldnt find any evidence of fraud, so it couldnt offer her 
a refund. It said in reaching its decision, it had taken into account the security capability of 
the card, her security obligations under the terms and conditions, and the details of the 
transactions shed disputed.
In calls, Barclays told Ms S shed said shed written down her PIN and kept it in her purse 
with the card. Ms S said she hadnt been to the country where the transactions took place, 
and was now overdrawn and it was money shed worked for. Ms S also said she hadnt said 
that shed written down her PIN, just that shed kept her card in her purse. Barclays phone 
adviser told Ms S that the disputed transactions had been carried out using chip and PIN, 
using the genuine debit card. The adviser asked Ms S how anyone else could have known 
the PIN, and Ms S said she didnt know. Barclays re-debited the temporary credit and Ms S 
complained.
In the phone call about the complaint, Barclays didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint and held her 
liable. It said there was no PIN compromise found; that chip and PIN had been used; and 
that there were previous flight transactions which had indicated that Ms S travelled; and 
there had been a delay in Ms S reporting the dispute. Ms S became annoyed and asked 
whether Barclays had sent a letter to someone else sending them her PIN.
Barclays wrote again to Ms S on 1 February 2023. It said the disputed transactions had all 
been made using the genuine debit card, which couldnt be cloned, and correct PIN. It 
pointed out that the card was no use to a fraudster without the correct PIN. So either the PIN 
must have been available with the card, or it was known to whoever was using the card. The 
account terms and conditions meant that Ms S was responsible for keeping the card safe 
and always maintaining the security of the PIN. So there was a lack of reasonable care.
Ms S wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. She said it had impacted her and was very 
frustrating. She said she wanted her money back so she could get back to her life.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. His view was that what happened was that 
Ms S:
- either authorised or consented to the transactions by making the PIN available to a 
third party who had the card, or 
- was grossly negligent because shed twice said on the call recordings that shed kept 
her PIN with her card in a purse. This would have enabled a third party to use the 
card and PIN.
Ms S didnt accept this. She said she wasnt happy with the outcome and was very frustrated 
at what was being said about her case because it made her seem like a criminal. She told 
the investigator she hadnt meant to say that shed written down her PIN and kept it with the 
card. Ms S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In these circumstances there are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The 
relevant regulations here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the 
bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they 
did authorise them. The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for 
unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep 
their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence. So Ive 
considered whether its more likely than not that Ms S authorised the transactions herself, or 
whether she failed to keep her details secure through gross negligence.
Ive looked at the technical evidence about the transactions. They were carried out using Ms 
Ss genuine card. Its not generally thought possible to copy the chip on a card, and this 
service hasnt come across any cases where we felt this was a likely explanation of what 
happened. I havent seen any evidence Ms Ss card was cloned.
In relation to the PIN, the technical evidence again shows that the correct PIN was used. 
There are no failed PIN attempts. There are 10,000 possible combinations of a four-digit 
PIN, so its most likely anyone would correctly guess a PIN. So whoever used Ms Ss card 
must have known the correct PIN. The key factor here is how anyone other than Ms S, or 
someone authorised by her, could have obtained the card and found out the correct PIN.
Ive listened to the phone calls, and its accurate that Ms S twice told the Barclays call 
handler that she had written down her PIN and kept it in her purse with her card. She said 
this was because she had a bad memory. I recognise that Ms S later denied having said 
this, but the call recordings are clear.
There are three possible options here. One is that Ms S carried out the transactions herself. 
Another option is that she consented to the transactions by making the card and PIN 
available to someone else. The third option is that a third party unknown to Ms S stole the 
card and found out the PIN because shed written it down with the PIN. I note that initially Ms 
S didnt tell Barclays that her card had been stolen, and just said that she thought it was 
somewhere in her house.
In practical terms, it doesnt make any difference which of these three options happened 
here. Thats because Ms S is liable whether she carried them out herself; or allowed someone else to do so by letting them have her card and PIN; or was grossly negligent by 
writing down her PIN and keeping it with her card. The terms and conditions of the account, 
to which Ms S would have to have consented when opening the account, provide that 
customers must keep their security information secure, so by not doing so, Ms S was 
breaking the terms and conditions of her account. 
For completeness, Id add that I dont accept Ms Ss suggestion that Barclays had sent a 
letter to someone else which sent them Ms Ss PIN. Bank staff dont have access to a 
customers PIN. And even if Ms S hadnt said shed kept her PIN written down with her card, 
theres still no clear way in which her PIN could have been obtained by a third party in all the 
circumstances of this case. 
Ive also borne in mind the other factors which Barclays raised with Ms S: that 
there were previous flight transactions which had indicated that Ms S travelled; and there 
had been a delay in Ms S reporting the dispute.
In addition, the pattern of the disputed transactions doesnt match that of a normal fraudster. 
Fraudsters tend to carry out transactions very quickly, in order to maximise their gain before 
the card can be blocked. Thats not what happened here, where the disputed transactions  
some as small as £4.74  took place over seven days. There were also no attempted 
transactions after Ms S reported the dispute.
So I find that the only possibilities are that Ms S carried out the transactions herself; that she 
allowed someone else to use her card and PIN; or that she was grossly negligent because 
she had written down her PIN and kept it with her card, breaching the account terms and 
conditions.  Ms S is liable in all three scenarios. So I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint and 
Barclays doesnt have to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman