DRN-3423239
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains The Co-operative Bank Plc unfairly closed its account.
What happened
Mr A is a director of B and brings this complaint on its behalf. In November 2020 The Co-Op 
gave B notice that its account would close. They said B fell outside of its new risk appetite.
Mr A was unhappy about the decision. He said that other banks were not offering equivalent 
accounts at that time, so B would be unbanked as a result. He asked for a longer notice 
period to find an alternative account. The Co-Op decided it was still going to close the 
account and they wouldnt extend the notice period. 
Bs account closed in February 2021, several weeks after the notice period expired. But B 
had been able to open another account elsewhere before the account closed.
Our investigator decided not to uphold Bs complaint. They found The Co-Op had the 
commercial discretion to decide whether it wanted B as a customer or not.  So, it could 
decide not to continue its relationship with B. It wasnt obliged to maintain or prolong its 
relationship because B said it would struggle to find an equivalent account elsewhere. The 
Co-Op had complied with the terms and conditions of Bs account.
Mr A strongly disagrees that The Co-Op should have been able to close accounts at a time 
when alternative equivalent accounts were not readily available elsewhere. He says they 
should have only been able do so at the intervention of a MLRO officer. The fact that B 
managed to open an alternative account does not mean the Co-Ops treatment of B was fair.
B asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint was given to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Banks, such as the Co-Op, have the commercial discretion to end customer relationships. 
And, generally, it is not for our service to interfere with the exercise of that discretion unless 
the basis of an account closure was unlawful.
Mr A has said that at the time The Co-Op gave B notice, there were no alternative equivalent 
accounts available. But The Co-Op didnt have an obligation to ensure that they only close 
an account when a business customer can find an equivalent account with similar benefits. 
The account terms make it clear that they can close the account for any reason. 
The Co-Op can of course consider customers circumstances and review their decision, but I 
dont find they had to change their original decision in the circumstances of B. While I 
understand that at the time B received the notice to close, many major high street banks had 
stopped offering new business accounts or had limited the number of new business account 
applications, I havent seen that no accounts were available in the market.
Mr A says it wasnt known if B would find an alternative account during the notice period. But 
I dont find this means the Co-Op should have held fire and not relied on its contractual right 
to terminate its relationship with B. They were not required to continue a customer 
relationship because B might experience losses or difficulties if the relationship was ended. 
I find the notice period The Co-Op gave was in line with the terms of the account. And I dont 
find the fact that Bs account remained open after the notice period means their original 
decision to close the account and not extend the notice period was inherently unfair.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Bs complaint for the reasons I have given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman