DRN-3695071
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S have complained about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited 
(Accredited) settled a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K had some bangles and rings stolen from her while she was on holiday. Mr S contacted 
Accredited to make a claim. Accredited agreed to settle the claim for the rings and said, as 
the bangles had been described as a set, that the £3,000 limit for sets of items would 
apply. When Mrs K and Mr S complained, Accredited maintained its decision to apply the 
£3,000 limit.
So, Mrs K and Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She 
said Mr Ss use of the word set was a turn of phrase and didnt mean they werent 
individual items that were worn together. She said Accredited should deal with each bangle 
as an individual item. 
Accredited disagreed with the investigator but offered to settle the claim for £6,000, less the 
excess to draw the matter to a close. Our investigator put this offer to Mrs K and Mr S, who 
didnt accept it. Accredited asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 7 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
I should note that I have only looked at the settlement for the bangles and havent 
considered anything in terms of the rest of the settlement offered. 
When Mr S contacted Accredited to make a claim, he said the bangles were given to my 
wife  as a set of 6. So, Accredited took this to mean the items were a set and applied the 
policy term that said:
The most we will pay for:

any one item, set or pair of unspecified high risk item(s) or unspecified personal belongings 
is three thousand pounds (£3,000)
Ive looked at the receipt and this says Items: Bangles 6. Ive also seen a photo of a 
person, who I understand to be Mrs K, wearing some of the bangles. It isnt the clearest 
photo but, from what I can see, the bangles appear to be similar to each other. Mr S has said 
his use of the word set was a turn of phrase, but didnt mean they were a set as described 
by the policy. I have some sympathy for that argument.  I also dont think the receipt shows 
the bangles were a set, despite them being bought at the same time.
Mrs K has also provided descriptions of the bangles to this service. She initially said: I had 2 
sets of 3 bangles, 3 for each hand. When Mrs K replied to our investigators view, she 
agreed with the investigator that they could be regarded as individual items, but also said the 
bangles could also be described as 3 sets of two bangles. Im aware that if it was three 
sets of two bangles, this would be similar to Accredited settling the claim for each individual 
bangle, as Mrs K and Mr S said the bangles were worth about £1,500 each and the limit for 
each set was £3,000. However, this still suggests Mrs K regarded it as reasonable to 
describe the bangles as a set. 
It also means I have three different explanations for whether, or how, the bangles are a set. 
Based on what Ive seen, I currently think Mrs Ks explanation of the bangles being two sets 
of three is the most compelling. In that instance, I think it was more than just a turn of 
phrase. Mrs K clarified they were a set of three for each hand, which persuades me that 
Mrs K regarded them as a set and of how they formed a set.
So, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and say that Accredited should reassess the 
claim for the bangles as two sets of three bangles.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 5 October 2022.
Accredited didnt reply.
Mr S and Mrs K replied and said the bangles are individually sold at jeweller shops, are an 
individual piece of jewellery and someone can buy as many as they like. However, it is a 
tradition to wear a minimum of six so you can wear three on each arm. The best description 
was a single piece of jewellery bought. If one was lost, it was possible to buy one to 
replace it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive looked again at the information provided by Mr S 
and Mrs K, including in their response to my provisional decision. Mr S and Mrs K have said 
the bangles are individually sold at jewellery shops. But what I need to decide is whether 
these specific bangles, that were given to Mrs K several years ago, were a set and, if so, 
how they formed a set. 
I dont doubt that bangles can be bought individually. However, these bangles were bought 
together, appear to be similar to each other and were described by Mrs K as forming a set, 
although her description of how they formed a set varied. Mr S and Mrs Ks latest response 
also suggests that they are meant to be worn together, with three on each arm. So, having 
thought about this carefully, I remain of the view that it is reasonable to regard the bangles 
as two sets of three and for Accredited to settle the claim on that basis.
Putting things right
Accredited should reassess the claim for the bangles as two sets of three bangles.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to reassess the claim 
for the bangles as two sets of three bangles.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman