DRN-3976701
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs L complain about what happened when they tried to take out a new mortgage 
deal with Barclays Bank UK PLC, for their buy to let (BTL) property. They said Barclays 
caused considerable delays, which they wanted compensation for. 
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr G and Mrs L, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr G. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr G told us about the very considerable delays in taking out a new mortgage deal with 
Barclays. He set out for us a timeline of what had happened, which also details the number 
of calls and contacts he and Mrs L had with Barclays, trying to get things back on track. 
In mid-July, Mr G and Mrs L contacted Barclays by phone to take out a new fixed interest 
rate mortgage. They completed the process online the same day.
The rate switch was due to take effect on 1 August, but it didnt happen. Mr G said between 
1 20 August he and Mrs L made a total of 13 phone calls to Barclays to request updates 
and chase on the mortgage rate switch. No updates were provided. They spent up to 1 hour 
20 minutes per call on hold. On 23 August, Mrs L travelled to a branch to present her ID. 
She spent over an hour there. 
In early September, Barclays at first said it hadnt updated Mrs Ls address. Then it accepted 
it did have her new address, but it hadnt applied this to the mortgage. It was able to do that 
over the phone, and then on a third call, said it would now be able to issue paperwork for an 
offer. Between 13 - 23 September Mr G and Mrs L made multiple calls to Barclays, as no 
documents had been received. The forms were finally received from Barclays on 23 
September, and were signed and returned same day. 
By early October Barclays still hadnt processed the mortgage change, so Mr G contacted 
Barclays to request an update. Barclays at first said it didnt have the signed documents, 
although a copy of the signed documents was showing in the Barclays app. Barclays 
realised this and the case was forwarded back to the case handler. It also sent out a new set 
of mortgage documents, in error. In mid-October Mr G contacted Barclays again, and it said 
the mortgage still hadnt been finalised. Mr G then raised a formal complaint. 
Mr G said hed received a partial refund, and a small compensation offer. When he pointed 
out that the refund didnt cover all the overpayments made, he said that Barclays at first said 
his complaint would be reopened and he would be contacted. But by the end of November, 
Barclays said the complaint was closed, and would not be reopened.
Mr G asked our service to look into this complaint. He wanted Barclays to pay back the 
overcharged interest, and refund the product fee of £1,795 that he and Mrs L paid to take out 
this mortgage. He told us he and Mrs L had spent over 55 hours trying to put things right.
Barclays said it didnt dispute that it had caused delays in this application. It initially input Mr 
G and Mrs Ls account number incorrectly, which delayed the application. There was a 
mismatch on addresses, which caused further delays. Mr Gs address was then updated but 
Mrs Ls was not. Mrs L went into a branch and provided proof of address, but this was still 
not actioned. Mr G and Mrs L were told forms would be sent to them electronically, but they 
were not issued. Then when forms were finally sent out and signed, they werent actioned on 
return. Mr G and Mrs L were charged Barclays Standard Variable Rate (SVR) for August, 
September and October, their new rate wasnt applied until October. 
Barclays did refund some of Mr G and Mrs Ls overpaid interest, but although Barclays said 
it would backdate the rate to 1 August, it only refunded overpayments for August and 
September, not for October. Barclays also paid compensation of £225.
When this case came to our service, Barclays accepted it hadnt yet done enough to put 
things right. Barclays has now refunded the additional amounts it charged for October 2022, 
which it said meant it will have refunded in full the overpaid mortgage amounts, representing 
the difference between the SVR and the rate Mr G and Mrs L should have been on from 
1 August. And it would like to increase its offer of compensation to £500, meaning a further 
£275 in compensation would also be paid now. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the product fee was 
charged in line with the agreement Mr G and Mrs L had reached with Barclays, and he didnt 
think Barclays had to pay that back. He said the offer Barclays had now made provided a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said it didnt represent a fair outcome for the amount of time invested 
and the distress that this complaint had caused. He pointed to the initial problems with the 
application, and said Barclays just didnt contact him in response to his application. He said 
Barclays didnt do anything if he didnt contact it. He felt that a number of the problems here 
could have been solved by simple proactive steps by Barclays. But they werent. 
Mr G said he and Mrs L would accept a total compensation payment of £1,500 which he felt 
would be fair and reasonable for the distress, upset and time this matter has caused. As he 
hadnt agreed with our investigator, this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Theres no dispute that Barclays has caused delays with this remortgage. It has accepted 
that it made a series of mistakes. And each time it made a mistake, it doesnt appear then to 
have taken steps to put things right. It doesnt even appear to have consistently responded 
to Mr G and Mrs Ls efforts to get things back on track. Some of the contact that Mr G and 
Mrs L had with Barclays was able to move things forward for them, but on other occasions, I 
can see promises were made to them by Barclays which dont appear to have been kept. 
I can well understand why Mr G and Mrs L have found this a deeply frustrating process. But 
Im sorry to have to tell them that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to ask 
Barclays to pay compensation at the sort of level they would like, in this case. I do need to have regard to the overall approach of our service to compensation. (Mr G and 
Mrs L can find further information on that through our services website, if they would find 
that helpful.) And I dont think it would be consistent with our services overall approach to 
compensation, to ask Barclays to pay £1,500 in this case. 
I understand that Barclays has now made a refund of overpayments for August, September 
and October, with the exception of a few pounds that Mr G says hes happy not to pursue. 
And it has offered to increase its total compensation payment to £500. I do think that a total 
payment of £500 in compensation in this case would be in line with our services overall 
approach to compensation. I understand Barclays has paid £225 in this case, and if thats 
right, Barclays will need to pay a further £275 now. I think that would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. So thats what Ill ask Barclays to pay here. 
I understand Mr G and Mrs L will be disappointed, but I dont think that Barclays has to do 
more than that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr G and Mrs L a total of £500 in 
compensation for this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman