DRN-2871640
The complaint
Ms B complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) were wrong to report 
a late payment to her credit file; take too many payments and issue arrears letters when her 
account was up to date.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms B acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I can see that VWFS made mistakes here. They took two payments by mistake; issued an 
arrears letter when there were no arrears and recorded a late payment marker to a credit 
reference agency when there wasnt a late payment.
I can understand that all those issues would have been distressing for Ms B and Ive read 
about the impact she says they had on her health and her testimony that shes always kept 
up with payments and takes pride in maintaining a good credit rating. 
I understand that VWFS have now made good will payments to Ms B totalling £410 in 
recognition of the errors theyve made and the distress and inconvenience that theyve 
caused. In the circumstances, I think VWFS have provided a fair level of compensation and 
Im not asking them to provide any further redress.
  
Putting things right
I understand that since Ms B contacted this service about her complaint, VWFS have 
ensured that the late payment marker has been removed and that the account is showing as 
settled with all the credit reference agencies. So, I dont think they need to take any further 
action as I think theyve put things right for Ms B.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint but, as Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited have now completed the necessary action (as listed above), Im not 
asking them to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman