DRN-3149185
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire agreement with PSA 
Finance UK Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes being represented in his complaint by 
his father.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr D under a hire agreement with PSA Finance that he signed in 
March 2017. He had some issues with the car so it was returned to the dealer for repairs but 
the faults continued. He complained to PSA Finance in December 2020 but it said that Mr D 
hadnt provided the dealer with any evidence to show that the car had been properly 
serviced. It also said there was no evidence that the faults occurred within a timeframe that 
suggested that they were present or developing at the point of sale. Mr D wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service. 
The car was subject to a manufacturers recall and was repaired in March 2021. At that time 
a tear in the wiring loom was found which was repaired and which has dealt with the issues 
with the car. The car was returned when the hire agreement ended.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He described 
what had happened in detail and was persuaded that the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply to Mr D and he felt that PSA Finance had acted fairly.
Mr Ds father, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says that his daughter and a friend also leased cars from the dealer at a 
similar time and have had the same problems which have been denied by the dealer. He 
says his daughters complaint has been upheld by this service and an independent 
investigation has said that 22,580 cars were subject to a recall due to inherent engine 
issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons:
our investigator has described what happened in detail so I dont consider it to be 
necessary for me to repeat that information here;
PSA Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr D was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
its clear that there have been issues with Mr Ds car which was returned to the 
dealer and that Mr Ds, and his fathers, relationship with the dealer has broken down 
in ways that have been referred to in PSA Finances final response letter to Mr D;
Mr D didnt have the car serviced by the dealer and he didnt provide it with 
information to show that the car had been serviced  hes now provided that 
information but I consider that it was fair and reasonable for PSA Finance to say, in 
response to Mr Ds complaint, that he hadnt provided evidence to show that the car 
had been properly serviced or that the faults occurred within a timeframe that 
suggested that they would have been present or developing when the car was 
supplied to Mr D;
the manufacturer issued a recall about the car and Mr D took it to a different dealer in 
March 2021 in response to that recall for the car to be repaired  but I dont consider 
that the recall is enough to show that there was a fault with the car that caused it not 
to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D;
when the car was being repaired a tear in the wiring loom was found  it was 
repaired at no cost to Mr D and the car was tested and found to be ok  and I 
understand that the repair dealt with the issues with the car  but the cars mileage at 
that time was 31,134;
I dont consider it to be likely that the tear in the wiring loom was present when the 
car was supplied to Mr D as I dont consider that hed have been able to drive that 
mileage in the car if the wiring loom had been torn when the car was supplied to him;
the basic annual mileage allowance under the agreement was 8,000 and the hire 
agreement was for four years  so the total mileage allowance for the term of the 
agreement was 32,000  so Mr D had been able to drive nearly the total mileage 
allowance at the time of the recall repair;
the dealer had provided Mr D with a courtesy car and there was clearly a 
disagreement between Mr D and the dealer about the return of the courtesy car;
this service considers each complaint on its individual merits and the fact that a 
different investigator has recommended that Mr Ds sisters complaint should be 
upheld doesnt mean that Mr Ds complaint should also be upheld;
Mr D hasnt provided an independent report about the car or any other evidence to 
show that there was a fault with the car when it was supplied to him  and Im not 
persuaded that hes provided enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at that time; and
the hire agreement has now ended and Mr D has returned the car - I sympathise with 
him for the issues that hes had with the car but find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require PSA Finance to refund to Mr D any of the payments that 
hes made under the hire agreement, to pay him any other compensation for the 
issues that hes had with the car or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman