DRN-3614429
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt correctly managed his offset mortgage. 
The object of the offset mortgage was to shorten the term of the mortgage, but Mr B says 
that it didnt shorten it as much as it should have done.
What happened
Mr B took has had a mortgage, partly interest only and partly capital repayment with 
Barclays since 2003. The mortgage benefits from an offset facility which means that the 
amount of interest he has had to pay has been reduced by offsetting the balances he has 
held in other accounts against the mortgage balance. This reduces the interest he has to pay 
and the savings resulting from the offset can be used to either reduce the monthly payments 
or to reduce the mortgage term. Mr B chose to reduce the mortgage term. Through use of 
the offset Mr Bs term will be reduced by about ten months. Mr B says that as he saved 
paying interest of over £23,000, his mortgage term should have been reduced by perhaps 40 
- 50 months. Mr B says that every time that there has been an interest rate change that 
Barclays has extended the term.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he could see no 
obvious errors in Barclays calculations that would suggest that the mortgage has been 
managed incorrectly. Mr B disagreed saying that our investigator hadnt considered his 
evidence that Barclays increased the time it would take to pay off his mortgage at interest 
rate changes or part redemptions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is unhappy with the length of the mortgage term and that it didnt reduce as he 
understood it would. If I look at his initial letter of complaint, Mr B suggests that this may 
have been because his mortgage balance doesnt reflect the more than £23,000 of interest 
savings that resulted from the offset. But since then, Barclays produced a full spreadsheet 
from the inception of the mortgage in November 2003 to date showing the offset interest of 
about £23,000 being credited against the mortgage balance. I note in passing that the offset 
type in that spreadsheet is referred to as Term which is the offset type that Mr B wanted. 
Mr B hasnt challenged the figure and neither he nor the Independent Financial Adviser 
(IFA) that Mr B engaged have demonstrated with reference to the spreadsheet that 
Barclays accounting was incorrect. So, it seems to me that on the basis of the spreadsheet I 
cant fairly say that Barclays didnt correctly account for the offset benefit
Mr B says if he saved over £23,000, this would mean that making repayments of £504 per 
month he would save this of the capital and should have repaid his mortgage about 46 
months before the expected end of term. Mr B also suggests that at each interest rate 
change that Barclays extended the time or term to pay the mortgage. The implication of that 
is that Barclays reduced the monthly payment to extend the term and applied the offset 
benefit to reduce the payment rather than the term, which of course Mr B didnt want. But its 
clear from Barclays set up that the offset benefit is used to reduce the term rather than the 
payment and the term has been reduced by ten months and not extended. So, the offset is 
working to reduce the term rather than the payments.
Mr Bs evidence relies on an online calculator. Mr Bs most recent response was that by 
using an online calculator hes able to say that 14 months was added to the time to pay off 
the mortgage between February and April 2013. So, Mr B says that in February 2013 the 
term, using the mortgage balance, the monthly payment, and the online calculator, had 109 
months to run but in April 2013 it had 121 months. So, he concludes that Barclays was 
extending the term.
But this evidence is skewed by the fact that for some reason in April 2013 a smaller payment 
than usual is collected following a part redemption in March 2013 and the payments then 
went up after April.  So, I dont consider that its conclusive to extrapolate from this smaller 
and unrepresentative payment in March that Barclays mismanaged the mortgage to increase 
the term. I noted that Mr B engaged an IFA to verify his calculations on this, but the IFA 
merely confirms that Mr Bs calculations using the online calculator are correct. I note that 
the IFA doesnt challenge Barclays evidence. The calculations may be correct, but I dont 
consider them helpful in reaching a conclusion as they are based on an unrepresentative 
payment. The IFA goes no further than that and does not identify if and what the problem is 
with Halifaxs management of this offset benefit mortgage - if there was one.
Mr B says that Barclays mismanagement of his mortgage has meant that the term of his 
mortgage lasted some 46 months longer than it should have because Barclays didnt apply 
the offset savings to the mortgage correctly. But Barclays produced its full spreadsheet 
showing that it indeed applied the offset savings correctly.  I note that Mr Bs IFA doesnt 
draw my attention to any inaccuracies in that document and I believe that I can fairly rely on 
it. Mr B says that according to an online calculator, Barclays has been increasing rather than 
decreasing the term of the mortgage. But I find Mr Bs prime example of that  the 
calculation from 2013 that he asked the IFA to verify and us to consider- isnt a 
representative example that can be relied on to accurately extrapolate from. But more 
significantly the term doesnt increase but decreases. That surely can only happen if 
Barclays is applying the offset benefit to decrease the term rather than decrease the 
payments and maintain the term. Its doing what Mr B wanted it to do. My conclusion is that 
the evidence supports the view that Barclays operated the offset benefit on Mr Bs account 
correctly and I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman