DRN-4462862
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about a claim they made on their U K Insurance Limited (UKI)
travel insurance policy for travel and medical expenses.
Mr and Mrs M say UKI treated them unfairly.
What happened
Whilst in France, Mr M was admitted to hospital for emergency surgery. He was discharged
11 days later.
Mr and Mrs M complain about the handling of their claim for medical expenses and
repatriation by UKI.
Mrs S says she got in touch with UKI on the day Mr M was admitted for surgery as it was
clear they would need to be repatriated in due course. She says she was assured that they
would be repatriated and there would be end to end support to help get him home safely.
Despite this, Mrs M says her experience of UKIs handling of the claim was both difficult and
stressful.
Shes referenced a number of difficulties she encountered in getting the claim dealt with
within in a timely manner, which necessitated her continuing to chase UKI to consider the
claim and a failure by them to agree to repatriate them within a reasonable period.
Mrs M says the delays meant that Mr M had been discharged from hospital but no
arrangements were made for them to go home. This led to Mr and Mrs M making their own
arrangements and taking their own risks in flying home without UKIs help. Shes cited a
number of problems with this, including the fact that they had no wound or colostomy
support nor access to anticoagulant medication after Mr M was discharged from hospital.
She also says Mr Ms staples were in for longer than was medically advised due to the delay
and that they encountered difficulty getting anticoagulants on return to the UK as these were
only prescribed to patients who had been discharged in the UK.
Overall Mr and Mrs M say they suffered distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering as a
result of UKIs actions and want to be compensated for this. UKI considered their complaint
and accepted they could have done some things better. They offered them £150 in
compensation. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and concluded that it should be 
upheld. He said that £150 wasnt enough to compensate Mr and Mrs M for the service they
received and the delays in dealing with their claim. He said that £400 was more appropriate
in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs M asked for some further clarification on this award from
the investigator, which he provided. They then said they accepted his opinion. UKI dont
however, agree with the investigators findings. As such the matter has been passed to me 
to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons reached
by the investigator. This is why.
The issue I need to decide is whether the sum UKI offered is enough to compensate Mr and
Mrs M for their actions. UKI have accepted that whilst they needed to clarify certain
information to verify the claim and in particular Mr Ms needs once he was confirmed fit to fly,
this couldve cause distress to Mr and Mrs M at an already stressful time. They also
recognised there were delays in responding to Mr and Mrs M. As a consequence, they
initially offered them £100, which they then increased to £150.
Ive thought about this and what UKI did wrong specifically in this case. As I understand it,
Mr M was admitted for emergency surgery and was discharged 11 days later. During this
time Mrs M was in regular contact with UKI to arrange for repatriation given Mr Ms condition.
But UKI werent able to arrange for this until they had medical evidence to confirm that Mr M
was fit to fly and what arrangements were necessary to arrange for him to return home
safely. 
From what I can see, UKI made several attempts to obtain information from the hospital in
France, but due to backlogs, this wasnt forthcoming. Because of this I can understand why
UKI didnt agree to facilitate Mr Ms return before they could satisfy themselves that the
arrangements Mr M needed were in place, based on medical evidence. UKI were entitled to 
wait for the discharge report to confirm Mr M was fit to fly and what arrangements were 
needed to repatriate him and Mrs M home. I can see that UKI did offer to fund Mr and Mrs 
Ms costs in remaining in France a short time longer before they could make the necessary 
arrangements, but the decision to refuse this and return back to the UK was Mr and Mrs Ms. 
That said, I agree with Mr and Mrs M that their claim wasnt handled promptly as it should 
have been. As Ive said, Mrs M was in constant contact with UKI to discuss Mr Ms condition. 
So UKI could have done more in that time to get in touch with the treating hospital more 
promptly as well as assess the information theyd been provided with without delay. And I 
agree with the investigator that UKI did appear to take a more reactive approach to seeking 
information from the treating hospital after Mrs M prompted them to. I dont think this should 
have been the case.
UKI has said that the approach they took wasnt reactive and that theyd made several
attempts to contact the treating hospital unsuccessfully and offered Mrs M different options,
but these were rejected. Ive looked at the timeline theyve provided but I dont agree that
they did everything they could have. Indeed, UKI accept they could have stepped outside the
process and tried other means of contact with the hospital. And although they say they dont
think this might have made a difference, they cant know this for certain.
Ultimately Mr M was left in a situation where he was discharged from hospital, but wasnt
able to return home because UKI hadnt made arrangements for his return. Like Ive said, I
understand the reasons for this, but I think more could have been done sooner to progress
matters, to prevent Mr M being left in this position as far as possible. In the circumstances, I 
can understand why Mr M felt it was better to return home without delay, especially because 
he didnt have access to ongoing treatment for his condition if he stayed in a hotel whilst he 
waited for UKI to get the evidence they needed and arrange to return him home.Putting things right
UKI should pay Mr and Mrs M £400 to compensate them for the distress, inconvenience and
pain and suffering caused by their actions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against U K Insurance
Limited and direct them to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman