DRN-4353560
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a corporate bond fund in 2010. He says 
he was told it would double in value over the longer term.
What happened
In October 2010, Mr C had around £85,000 available for investment following an account 
maturity. He planned to reinvest the sum in a 4.5% fixed rate bond. But he says that, when 
he visited a branch, Santander advised him to invest in a corporate bond. He was due to 
retire within the next few months so says he wouldnt have wanted to take any risk with his 
money. He says he was told the investment would double in the medium to long term. So he 
invested half his money, £42,500, in the recommended bond and the remainder in the fixed 
rate bond as hed originally intended.
He understood long-term to be at least 10 years and in 2022 he complained to Santander 
because the bond hadnt increased in value as he says hed been told.
Santander said Mr Cs complaint was out of time and this service considered whether it had 
been brought too late. One of our ombudsmen decided the complaint had been brought 
within the required time limits and that we could consider it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Santander had made Mr C aware that the investment could fall as well as rise in value and 
she didnt think hed been treated unfairly.
Mr C didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He wasnt given the booklet that the investigator refers to.
He couldnt afford to lose any money because he was shortly due to retire and, if hed 
been made aware that the investment could fall in value, he wouldnt have gone ahead.
Santander was fined by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for mis-selling which 
took place around the time when he received advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bond was sold to Mr C around 13 years ago and Santander isnt required to keep 
records indefinitely. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having considered everything carefully, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
The main objective of the bond fund was to generate income. Mr C told us that when he met 
with Santander he was due to retire in the following few months. I think its likely he was 
recommended the bond to supplement his retirement income. And I can see Mr C has 
received a monthly payment from the investment of around £145.
The fund invested in government and corporate bonds and was considered low risk, or 
cautious. I dont find this was unsuitable for Mr C who didnt have any investment 
experience, and who was about to retire.
Whilst the main objective of the bond fund was to provide income, it also aimed to maintain 
and increase the capital value. But Mr C says he was told the investment would double in 
value over the medium to long term. Hes not been able to provide evidence of what he was 
told and there are no records of the meeting. I cant be sure exactly what was said so Ive 
placed more reliance on the paper records that do still exist. Im not persuaded that Mr C 
was given any guarantee that the investment would increase in value. I say that because 
none of the paperwork mentions any guarantee of a capital increase.
The Help to Invest Guide includes warnings that the value of investments can go down as 
well as up and I think these are reasonably clear.
Mr C says he didnt receive the Help to Invest Guide. Whilst I accept thats possible, 
I wouldnt expect him to remember now exactly what paperwork he received in 2010. I think 
its more likely than not that, even if he didnt receive that guide, he would have seen the key 
features document for the bond. I say that because, when he signed the application form, he 
confirmed that he had read the key features document. And Im satisfied that the key 
features document would have included the warning about the value of investments falling 
as well as rising and that Mr C might not get back the amount he invested.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find the recommendation for Mr C to invest in 
the Sterling Corporate Bond Fund was unsuitable.
In arriving at my conclusion, Ive taken into account that the FCA found Santander had 
failed to ensure that customers investing were given clear and not misleading information 
about its products and services during 2010 to 2012. Im satisfied Santander carried out the 
required review of its sales and that not all of its sales during this period were found to be 
unsuitable. So, whilst I understand Mr Cs concerns, the FCA action does not change my 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman