DRN-3565025
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) actions after she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary, Mrs J 
fell victim to a scam whereby a fraudster accessed her account, and this resulted in £3,479 
being removed her account. 
Mrs J discovered the loss and reported the matter to Barclays on 6 October 2021.
Barclays logged the fraud claim, investigated the matter, provided Mrs J with a temporary 
refund of the lost funds on 11 October 2021 and then confirmed Mrs J could keep the funds 
on the 12 October 2021.
Mrs J, unhappy with Barclays customer service while its investigation into the fraud claim 
was ongoing, logged a formal complaint on 10 October 2021.
Barclays looked into this aspect and offered £150 for the level of service Mrs J received, 
acknowledging that there were instances where its service fell below what it would expect. 
Mrs J was unhappy with Barclays response and brought her complaint to this service. Mrs J 
considered that Barclays offer of compensation wasnt enough and didnt take into account 
the stress the matter had caused which required her to take unpaid leave.
 
One of our Investigators reviewed the matter and considered Barclays actions upon being 
notified of the fraud. They considered Barclays had acted promptly in investigating the 
matter and refunding Mrs J within the timescales expected of it. 
With regards to the compensation Barclays offered, our Investigator concluded that the 
majority of the distress and inconvenience Mrs J suffered was as a result of Mrs J being the 
victim of a scam. And having listened to the calls between Mrs J and Barclays they thought 
while  on one occasion  it had provided some misleading advice around the timescales; 
overall Barclays had set out and managed Mrs Js expectations with regards to the process. 
So our Investigator thought Barclays offer of £150 compensation for the level of service was 
fair.
Mrs J didnt accept the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J was the victim of a scam and lost money. And this happened at a time when Mrs J 
was pregnant and due to give birth. The funds she thought she had lost were her savings 
and were to be used for her maternity leave. So I can empathise with her situation and it 
must have been an extremely distressing time for her.
However, in looking at this complaint, I do have to be mindful that the majority of the distress 
that Mrs J suffered, in having funds fraudulently removed from her account, was as a direct 
result of the actions of the fraudsters. But I can consider Barclays actions once it was 
notified of the fraud by Mrs J. This includes taking into account whether it acted promptly to 
the notification of fraud, took the necessary actions required of it and whether it acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances. And I can look to see whether any failings by Barclays 
caused Mrs J additional distress or inconvenience. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J but having thought very carefully about Barclays actions, Im 
not upholding her complaint. I know shes been the victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt 
that these events have had a significant impact on her. But I dont believe Barclays acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in its answering of the complaint and its offer of £150 for the level of 
service provided was fair. Ill explain why.
Mrs J reported the matter on 6 October 2021. Barclays took the necessary actions required 
of it straight away. It blocked Mrs Js account so no further activity could take place, it 
cancelled her card and re-issued a new one and also took down the details of what had 
happened so that it could investigate the reported fraud. Barclays also managed Mrs Js 
expectations from the outset. It advised her that it would look into the matter and that it could 
take up to 10 days.
I do appreciate that having things like telephone and online banking blocked and having a 
card re-issued can cause inconvenience. But Mrs Js account was at risk as it had been 
accessed fraudulently  so I would expect Barclays to take these actions to ensure that no 
further financial harm came to Mrs J.   
Ultimately Barclays investigated the matter and provided a temporary refund on 
11 October 2021 for the full amount and then confirmed Mrs J could keep the funds the next 
day. So Im satisfied that Barclays, upon notification of the fraud took the appropriate actions 
required of it, carried out its investigation in a timely manner and refunded Mrs J after it ahd 
investigated what had happened. 
Im also satisfied that when Mrs J raised concerns about her financial circumstances 
Barclays explored what could be done for her and offered her the necessary financial 
assistance. 
I do appreciate that in one of the calls, an adviser gave an incorrect timeframe to Mrs J of 
20-25 days for the investigation to be carried out. And I can certainly understand why that 
would have caused some additional worry. I also note there was some confusion around 
Mrs J receiving a call back from Barclays fraud team. However in the main, I consider 
Barclays managed Mrs Js expectations regarding the timeframes from the outset and Mrs J 
had been made aware of the 10-day timeframe on more than one occasion. Mrs J also 
received a refund of her monies well within that 10-day timeframe. And while Mrs J was 
understandably proactive in chasing for a response or update, I cant say that Barclays 
hadnt acted appropriately or hadnt acted in a timely manner in regard to its investigation or 
keeping Mrs J updated accordingly when she called in.Mrs J in response to our Investigator advised that she also attended a branch where she 
was told that she may not get her money back. Mrs J accepts this was to manage her 
expectations but also found it upsetting. As mentioned earlier, I do appreciate that this would 
have been a distressing time for Mrs J, but I dont think Barclays did anything materially 
wrong here. It had to investigate matters and there was a possibility that it could have found 
that it wasnt liable to refund Mrs J. Managing a consumers expectation and being 
transparent about the potential outcome in this way is a fair thing to do. 
While I appreciate that the stress of losing her funds meant that Mrs J took some unpaid 
leave, I dont find that this was as a result of Barclays actions and was a direct consequence 
of being the victim of a scam perpetrated by fraudsters. As explained earlier, in this 
complaint, I can only consider the actions Barclays took once notified of the fraud and if 
there were any failings that caused additional distress and inconvenience. And having taken 
everything into account, I am satisfied Barclays took the appropriate actions required of it 
and did so in a timely manner. While there were a couple of instances where its service fell 
short, Barclays has acknowledged this and offered Mrs J £150 as compensation. And I think 
this offer is fair when considering the overall actions of Barclays in taking the appropriate 
actions from the outset and then in investigating the matter promptly and refunding Mrs J 
within the timeframe expected of it.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of £150 
compensation for the service Mrs J received is also fair and I dont direct it to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman