DRN-3205181
The complaint
Miss M has complained about Bastion Insurance Co Ltd.s handling of a claim on her 
breakdown insurance policy.
Reference to Bastion includes its agents in whose name the policy is branded.
What happened
Miss Ms car suffered a flat tyre while on the motorway. She tried to contact Bastion for help 
but couldn't get through to speak to anyone. She eventually rang another breakdown service 
who contacted Bastion on her behalf. She then spoke with Bastion who couldn't initially 
locate exactly where she was without a postcode. But it did eventually dispatch a recovery 
operator to help. Before the operator arrived Miss M changed the tyre herself and left. 
Miss M was very unhappy with Bastions service and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She didn't think Bastion needed to take any further action. 
Miss M didn't agree so her complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Miss Ms raised a number of points. Ive considered everything 
shes said carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to comment on each and every issue 
raised. Instead Ill focus on what I see as the key outstanding issues following our 
investigator's assessment of the complaint.
I can understand that Miss M found herself in fairly frightening circumstances: she'd suffered 
a flat tyre on a motorway, while her young son was with her. So she would have wanted help 
as soon as possible. But she couldn't initially speak to anyone at Bastion for that help. I'm 
not persuaded though that was because Bastion did anything wrong. Instead it seems 
Miss M might not have chosen the correct option from Bastions phone menu system. 
Because of that, at that time, Bastion didn't know Miss M was trying to report the need for 
breakdown assistance.
But once Bastion was aware of Miss Ms situation it did try to help her. Miss Ms said this 
process was delayed because  as she was stranded on the motorway  she didn't know the 
postcode. I've noted that she did describe where she was including the location of the 
nearest SOS box. But initially at least it appears this didn't help Bastion find the postcode. 
Bastions said the reason it needs the postcode is because its recovery operators will only 
work within certain geographical boundaries. It needs the postcode to make sure it allocates 
the right job to the right operator. It said that if the stricken driver was outside of the allocated 
operators boundary, the job might need reallocation, causing a further delay. So the time 
taken to try to find the postcode was intended to prevent that from happening. 
But Bastion did eventually manage to dispatch an appropriate operator. Bastion says most of 
its operators attend a breakdown within 60 to 90 minutes, although its policy is clear that, 
because of traffic, weather etc it can't guarantee that. And I've seen that Bastion did what it 
could to have an operator attend Miss M as soon as possible. Its instructions were clear that 
Miss Ms situation should be treated as a priority. And the allocated operator actually 
diverted from another job in order to help Miss M sooner. But before that operator had 
arrived Miss M had already managed to change the tyre herself and so left. However, in the 
meantime Bastion had tried calling Miss M twice, but it seems she didn't notice her phone 
ringing. While thats certainly unfortunate I don't think that was Bastions fault. 
I do understand why Miss M felt so frustrated. She originally tried to contact Bastion shortly 
after 8pm but didn't manage to actually speak to someone until almost 8.50pm. So shed 
been stranded by the side of the motorway with her young son for around an hour before 
Bastion confirmed it could help her. She was then faced with the prospect of a further delay 
until the recovery operator arrived, and Bastion couldn't guarantee that arrival time. So by 
the time shed been at the side of the motorway for over two hours she took matters into her 
own hands, even though she wasn't certain it was safe to do so. But, as I've said above, 
while I understand her frustration, I'm not convinced the majority of the delay was because 
Bastion did anything wrong. 
Miss Ms said she thinks Bastion should refund her premium and pay her compensation but I 
don't think thats appropriate. Unless shes cancelled it, Miss M remains covered by the 
policy even if she chooses not to use that cover. So I don't think a refund of premium is 
appropriate. And, as I've said above, I don't think Bastion was responsible for the majority of 
the delay Miss M experienced, so I don't think compensation is appropriate. 
Miss Ms pointed us to many of the negative reviews she's found online about Bastions 
service. She told us that Bastion needs serious investigation. But thats not something I'm 
going to do.  It might help if I explain that we're not the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) is. And our role is limited to looking into individual complaints from 
consumers to see if those individuals have been let down; and if so, to say what the 
business needs to do to put things right. We don't have the powers to tell a business to 
change its processes or policies. Further, its not within our remit to fine or punish a 
business, should we find that its let consumers down. But, in any event, in the specific 
circumstances of this case I don't think Bastion needs to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 
2 February 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman