DRN-2347899
The complaint
Mrs Ss representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on her behalf that 
she was given unsuitable investment advice by Santander UK Plc. 
In summary, the CMC says:
Mrs S was an inexperienced investor who didnt understand the nature of the 
investment. 
She invested too much of her available cash.
Santander didnt provide her with alternative options such as a fixed rate deposit 
account, which wouldve provided better interest rates.  
What happened
In April 2002, Mrs B was advised to invest £5,000 into the Santander Safety Plus Growth 
Issue 6  a capital-protected structured product  for the medium term. The product was 
designed to return the capital after five years, with potential gains from the stock market. 
Mrs S say she was 62 years of age, married and working in a shop at the time. Her husband 
had received a £5,000 redundancy pay. 
In 2007 the product matured and Mrs S received £6,022.28. 
The CMC originally complained to Santander in September 2019, but in a response dated 1 
November 2019 it rejected the complaint. In short it said the advice was suitable, even 
though it didnt have the point of sale documents. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Given the passage of time Santanders unable to provide the point of sale 
documentation such as the fact find or suitability letter. 
Businesses arent generally required to retain information beyond six years, so in the 
circumstances shes unable to say that Santander has done anything wrong by not 
being able to provide more information. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, its impossible to know what 
was or wasnt said at the point of sale, and the basis upon which the advice was 
given. 
Its also impossible to know what alternatives (including the fixed rate bonds) were 
(or werent) discussed. 
Our service would generally consider capital protected products to be a low risk 
investment, which offers consumers the opportunity of benefiting from potential 
growth in the stockmarket. 
She doesnt agree that the recommendation was unsuitable for an inexperienced 
investor. There are no rules preventing someone with no previous experience from 
investing.
The product brochure would suggest that the information provided about the 
business was clear, fair and not misleading. 
It looks like Mrs S swapped the certainty of keeping her money on deposit to take a 
chance on the stock market, knowing that her capital was safe. And upon maturity 
Mrs S received her capital plus a return, in line with the advice she received.  
Theres no evidence to suggest that Mrs S was risk averse or that she wasnt aware 
of alternative products. 
Its not in the nature of our service to make a finding based on the power of hindsight. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it made the following key points:
It didnt say that inexperienced investor couldnt invest. Although it agrees that 
inexperienced investors would need to start investing somewhere, this investment 
wasnt appropriate for Mrs S.  
Mrs S was past her statutory retirement age and had a limited income. So, placing 
the bulk of her available funds in a structured product wasnt suitable as per the 
2009 Financial Services Authority (FSA) guidance. 
Although it mightve been Mrs Ss decision to invest in the product, she wouldve 
done so on the advice from a professional adviser, so it wouldnt have been a free 
and independent choice. 
Had she been provided with information about a risk-free product, shes likely to have 
gone with that. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change her 
view. In short, she said:
Whilst she appreciates that Mrs S was past her statutory retirement age, other than 
what the CMC says, shes seen nothing to suggest that Mrs S was in financial 
difficulty or was risk averse. 
Its not unusual for someone to work past retirement age. It can give a sense of 
purpose and isnt always down to financial need. 
Without any point of sale documentation, shes cant safely say Santander did 
anything wrong.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the advice to invest in the capital guaranteed structured product was 
unsuitable for Mrs S. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, it seems to me that she was 
prepared to invest her money for the medium term  with a guaranteed minimum (20%) 
return plus her capital  with a chance to receive three times as much. Despite what the CMC says, Im not persuaded that Mrs S would  more likely (than not)  
have gone for the fixed rate bond in the alternative, assuming shed been provided with the 
information on it. I should make clear that Im unable to say whether (or not) she was 
provided with information about this or alternative products.      
Its only with the benefit of hindsight that we know for sure that the investment wasnt going 
to achieve anywhere near the 60% return upon maturity in 2007, as the world was about to 
embark on a global financial crisis. But this doesnt mean the recommendation is now 
unsuitable. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs S, with all the protections in place, wasnt prepared to 
take that chance in 2002  despite being an inexperienced investor (if indeed she was)  
knowing that her capital was safe, and she was guaranteed to make at least a 20% return, 
come what may.    
I should make clear that businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely. In this 
instance Im unable to blame Santander for not being able to provide the point of sale 
documentation for an investment that was sold over 18 years ago and ended over 13 years 
ago. 
Despite what the CMC says, I agree with the investigator that we cant use the benefit of 
hindsight to decipher which investment wouldve done better, and then determine whether or 
not the original advice was suitable. I appreciate thats not exactly what the CMC is saying, 
but nevertheless I wish to make clear thats not how our service operates. 
Im mindful of the points made by the CMC about the 2009 FSA guidance, but Im mindful 
the investment was sold in 2002, seven years before the guidance came into force, and 
matured in 2007, two years before the guidance was in place. Therefore, the guidance is 
unlikely to apply in this scenario. 
For the reasons set out above, I simply dont have the evidence to safely conclude that the 
recommendation was unsuitable for Mrs S. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman