DRN-2645149
The complaint
Mr W complained that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) stopped providing business 
reply envelopes for his postal only Investment Account without telling him.
What happened
Mr W called NS&I on 8 October 2020 as hed received a deposit form in the post, but a 
prepaid business reply envelope wasnt included with it. NS&I apologised and agreed to 
send him a supply of forms and envelopes out in the post.
Mr W called NS&I again on 14 October 2020. He had received the forms but there were no 
envelopes included. NS&I told Mr W that they no longer provide business reply envelopes. 
Mr W was unhappy so, he raised a complaint. NS&I wrote to Mr W in a letter dated 19 
October 2020. They apologised for any frustration but didnt agree that they had done 
anything wrong.
 
So, Mr W called NS&I again on 12 November 2020. He wasnt happy with their response 
and didnt agree with the change. He thought that NS&I shouldve told him before 
withdrawing the envelopes. NS&I replied to him in writing on 9 December 2020. They 
explained why they had decided to withdraw the business reply envelopes. Again, they didnt 
agree that they had done anything wrong.
Mr W was unhappy with the response from NS&I and decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. The circumstances of Mr Ws complaint were looked into by one of our investigators. 
He didnt think that NS&I needed to do anything else here. Mr W didnt agree and asked that 
his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that Mr W has held various NS&I investment products for a number of years. 
Throughout this time, he has made deposits to his Investment Account by post. NS&I 
provided a deposit form by post and previously included a business reply envelope for him to 
return the deposit.
In October 2020, NS&I took the decision to stop providing business reply envelopes. When 
Mr W didnt receive one with his deposit form, it prompted him to contact NS&I to request 
one.
NS&I have provided recordings of two calls made by Mr W to them. I have listened to both of 
these. The first was on 8 October 2020. NS&I said that they would send a supply of deposit 
forms to Mr W. He asked if they would definitely come with envelopes. NS&I said that they 
should do. Mr W stressed the importance of envelopes being provided.
I can appreciate and understand Mr Ws frustration when he received the forms without 
envelopes. Particularly as they had always been provided previously and he hadnt been told 
that theyd been withdrawn. He had also stressed this point in his call to them. 
Mr W called NS&I a second time on 14 October 2020. After a little investigation, he was told 
that NS&I no longer provide envelopes. NS&I apologised and agreed to raise a complaint. 
Mr W was concerned that hed been given conflicting information. He said that other banks 
provide envelopes and that he wouldnt have felt the need to complain if hed been told in 
advance. Its unfortunate that Mr W hadnt been told this during the first call. But NS&I have 
told us that they completed their removal of the envelopes on 9 October 2020.
  
I have also read a letter sent by NS&I to Mr W dated 19 October 2020. They did apologise 
for any frustration caused. They explained that because they are backed by HM Treasury, 
they needed to ensure that they remained cost effective to the tax payer. This had influenced 
their decision to stop sending envelopes. I think that their decision and rationale is entirely 
reasonable. It is just unfortunate that Mr W wasnt told in advance.
Following a further call to NS&I by Mr W, they replied in a letter dated 9 December 2020. 
They said that the supply of envelopes has never been a term of any of their investments. It 
was something that they had previously chosen to do as a gesture to their customers. They 
also explained further their decision to withdraw them.
Mr W has said that he thinks that NS&I shouldve been required to give notice to their 
customers before withdrawing the business reply envelopes. He also thinks that this service 
may have been included in previous terms and conditions.
NS&I have provided a copy of their current Investment Account brochure which includes the 
Customer Agreement and general terms. A copy of this is available on their website. The 
agreement is dated 24 April 2019 so, pre-dates any decision to stop supplying envelopes by 
almost 18 months. It confirms that further deposits to their Investment Account can be made 
by post or by electronic transfer. It also confirms that postal deposits must include a deposit 
form which can be obtained either on their website or by calling them.
The general terms say that their accounts can be managed online, by phone or by post. 
They also say that if you manage an account by post, there will be forms to use. They 
confirm that you can call them, and theyll send you any form you need. Throughout the 
brochure, there is no reference to NS&I providing business reply envelopes.
So, I cant see any requirement upon NS&I to either provide business reply envelopes or 
give notice to customers when they decided to stop providing them. As I have said, I do 
completely understand Mr Ws frustration. From a general service perspective, it could be 
considered good practice to notify customers when such a gesture is withdrawn. But I cant 
see that there is any obligation for them to do that.
So, although I know that Mr W will be disappointed, I wont be upholding his complaint here.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman