DRN-2604837
The complaint
Ms K complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) recorded her change of address
incorrectly.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
Ms K called Ikano on 6 November 2019 to inform them of a change of address. She says
she told them she lived at number 110a, but they recorded it as number 220.
Ms K is upset that she had to make several calls to resolve the matter and that a gone
away charge of £25 was made to her account when a letter sent to the wrong address was
returned. Shes also unhappy that Ikano sent personal correspondence to the wrong
address. Shed like to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ikano listened to the call Ms K had with them when she asked to change her address. They
didnt think the call was clear and they noted that when their agent asked if Ms K had said
220 she had agreed. They therefore didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Ms K referred her complaint to this service and our investigator listened to the call. He
thought the call was clear and that Ms K had said she lived at 220. He therefore agreed with
Ikano that no mistake had been made and he also noted that theyd been fair when
refunding the £25 gone away charge.
Ms K didnt agree with the investigator and she therefore asked for a final decision by an
ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view and Im expecting to uphold Ms Ks
complaint. 
Ive listened to the call Ms K made on 6 November 2019. Whilst Ms Ks voice is a little faint
on the call I can clearly hear that she says she lives at 110a. The investigator then says 220
but he doesnt ask Ms K to clarify that, he simply moves on to clarify her email address.
I think it was Ikanos responsibility to ensure they recorded the information correctly. Ms K
told them the right address and it was their agent that misconstrued it without asking for
clarification.
I think Ikano should therefore compensate Ms K for any distress and inconvenience that she
experienced as a result of them recording the wrong address.
Ms Ks address was corrected on 11 December 2019. It appears one letter was sent to the
wrong address in the meantime. I dont think theres evidence that Ms K was financially
inconvenienced by the failure of Ikano to update her address properly. But there has been
some inconvenience caused that they should compensate her for.
Ms K had to raise the matter with Ikano and to chase her complaint with their service. She
also received a £25 charge for a gone away letter and would have been concerned that a
letter was sent to the wrong person concerning her finances. And she also had to escalate
her complaint to this service when I think its fair to suggest it could have been resolved
earlier.
I can see that Ikano did respond within a reasonable eight-week timeframe and that they
quickly refunded the £25 to Ms Ks account when the error was identified. So, I think the
impact of their actions was mitigated to some extent.
Overall, however, I think it would be fair for them to pay Ms K £75 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to tell Ikano Bank AB (publ) to pay Ms K £75
to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience their actions have caused her. 
Ikano accepted my provisional decision but Ms K didnt. She thought the compensation 
should be higher and she suggested £150 was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K hasnt provided any reasoning to explain why she thinks £150 would be a fairer 
settlement and Ive therefore not been persuaded to change my mind.  
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision.  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding this complaint and tell Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
to pay Ms K £75 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience their actions have 
caused her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman