DRN-3566146
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mr P bought solar panels for his home in September 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. Mr P says the installer misled him into believing that 
the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. he also says that his roof was 
damaged during the installation of the panels, allowing water to enter the property.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He did not uphold it. Mr P did 
not accept that decision, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently not minded to uphold this 
complaint. That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and 
the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach 
the cost.
There are two versions of the contract: the original, which was provided by Mr P, and a 
revised one, provided by Ikano. In case Mr P only examined the original, I will consider both 
of them. They are both set out on the same template form.
The original contract
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £295.72. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is 
£6,800, payable over ten years. This document was signed by Mr P immediately below 
those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information 
to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr P could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £680 each year. That is more than twice the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, 
I think this is clear.
The revised contract
In the revised version the estimated total 1st year benefit is £255.47. The loan amount and 
loan term are the same. So it was still clear that the panels would not pay for themselves.
Again, this has been signed by Mr P.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr P about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear in both contracts that the panels would not be self-funding 
during the term of the loan.
Damage to roof during installation
No evidence was provided to Ikano to support this allegation, so I think it was reasonable of 
Ikano not to uphold Mr Ps section 75 claim for this issue. I have seen no evidence of 
damage either, so I have no reason to reach a different conclusion.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
