DRN-4306865
The complaint
Mr B says that Oplo PL Ltd, who Ill refer to as Oplo, should uphold claims he made to them
mainly under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare he was
sold.
Mr B has been represented by a professional representative who Ill refer to as PR. Where
I refer to Mr Bs submissions I include those made on his behalf.
Mr B entered into the timeshare agreement with his wife, but as the finance agreement
was in his sole name, I will refer only to Mr B or his representatives in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below.
What happened
Mr B bought a timeshare membership in May 2019 and funded the deal through a fixed sum
loan with a company Ill call H. Mr B says that H unfairly declined his claims under the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) and that they were irresponsible to extend the credit
as the loan wasnt sustainably affordable for him.
In August 2022 Oplo acquired Mr Bs account from H and assumed the obligations that H
had in respect of the account and also the investigation of any complaints relating to the
servicing of the account. Oplo are now, therefore, the correct respondent for this complaint.
As some of the actions and submissions have been taken/made by H, and some have been
taken by Oplo, to save confusion, I will simply refer to the lender in this decision.
In June 2020 PR complained to the lender on Mr Bs behalf. Their claim was quite lengthy
and its not practical to list all of the matters they mentioned here. In summary they said that
Mr B had a claim against the lender as there had been an unfair relationship pursuant to
section 140A (s.140A) of the CCA. They explained there hadnt been a proper assessment
of whether Mr B could afford the agreement; the lender should have declared the
commission it had paid to the timeshare provider, and that the timeshare company had
unduly pressured Mr B to take out the timeshare and the finance agreement that funded it.
They also said that thered been a breach of contract that could be considered under section
75 of the CCA (s.75) as the timeshare company had been liquidated and were no longer
able to service the contract.
Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to support Mr Bs claim.
PR disagreed. They couldnt understand why other complaints regarding the same supplier,
but a different creditor had been successful but this one hadnt, and they said the credit
intermediary hadnt conformed to the standards required of them. They also provided a copy
of generic submissions on behalf of complainants against the same timeshare provider, that
had been produced for them by Counsel.
The complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
his view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues in the case.
PR provided some generic comments from Counsel that shared some general concerns
about consumer contracts with the timeshare provider Mr B entered into an agreement with.
PR didnt elaborate on which of Counsels comments they thought were pertinent to
Mr Bs complaint. This service cant usually consider the merits of new complaints if they
havent been made to the business first. So, Ive only considered the complaint points raised
with the lender in PRs claim to them of June 2020, along with any generic submissions
made on those issues by Counsel.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
The claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
PR said that as the supplier had been liquidated there was a repudiatory breach of contract
as Mr B had, in effect, been deprived of the contract he was supposed to have benefitted
from. In this case, however, I am aware that, even though the supplier went into liquidation in
or about April 2020, new management companies were appointed to run their resorts and I
think it was therefore likely that Mr B and Mrs Bs timeshare membership could still be
benefitted from. I dont therefore think a court would be likely to uphold a claim made to them
under s.75 for breach of contract.
PR say that if Mr B was aware of the commission paid to the supplier in this deal, he
wouldnt have proceeded with the deal. But the lender has explained that no commission
was paid here and I therefore dont think a claim for misrepresentation under s.75 would be
likely to succeed in court either.The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant to the claim under s.140A of the CCA as the
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the supplier will be deemed to be the responsibility of
the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair
relationship exists between Mr B and the lender.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr B may have under s.140A
but Im required to take it into account when deciding whether the lender would be
reasonable to reject Mr Bs claims.
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
Unfair pressure
We know it is common that these sales presentations often lasted for a number of hours. Ive
therefore considered whether there is evidence that Mr Bs ability to exercise choice was
significantly impaired by the lengthy presentation, the pressure, lack of breaks, and the lack
of time alone to think, that may have created an unfair relationship between him and the
supplier.
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT
Regulations) seems to expand on the everyday definition of pressure. At the time of sale,
Regulation 7 stated that a commercial practice was aggressive if, in its factual context and
taking account of all of its features and circumstances, it:
a. significantly impaired or was likely to significantly impair the average consumers
freedom of choice or conduct in relation to the product concerned through the
use of harassment, coercion, or undue influence; and
b. caused or was likely to cause the consumer to take a transactional decision they
would not have taken otherwise as a result.
Regulation 7(2) went on to say that consideration must be given to the timing, location,
nature and persistence of the practice. And when thinking about whether undue
influence was applied, Regulation 7(3) said that thought must be given as to whether
the Supplier exploited a position of power in relation to the consumer so as to apply
pressure, even without using or threatening to use physical force, in a way which
significantly [limited] the consumers ability to make an informed decision.
I cant see that Mr B has provided much of an account of why the presentation was
pressured. I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient information to suggest he didnt
understand he didnt have to say yes to the agreement or that he didnt understand he could
walk away without entering into it. He was also provided with a 14 day cooling off period and
I think, even if he wasnt allowed much time to think during the presentation, the cooling off
period allowed him to reflect and withdraw from the agreement and the loan if he wished.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Bs ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have
been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
Commission
One of the main aims of both the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange
Contract Regulations 2010 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 was to enable consumers tounderstand the financial implications of their purchase so that they were/are put in the
position to make an informed decision. If a suppliers disclosure and/or the terms of a
bargain didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and the consumer ultimately lost out or almost
certainly stands to lose out from having entered into a contract whose financial implications
they didnt fully understand at the time of contracting, that may amount to unfairness under
S.140A.
H explained that they didnt pay the Supplier commission. But even if thats wrong I dont
think it would have been incompatible with its role in the transaction. The Supplier wasnt
acting as an agent of Mr B but as the supplier of contractual rights he obtained under the
purchase agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it
was the Suppliers role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr B
advice or information on that basis. I think its unlikely a court would find that the failure to
disclose commission in this case created an unfair relationship under s.140A.
No choice of lender
PR say an unfair relationship was created because Mr B wasnt given a choice of finance
providers. The Supplier wasnt acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs B but as the supplier of
contractual rights they obtained under the Purchase Agreement. And, in relation to the loan,
it still doesnt look like it was the Suppliers role to make an impartial or disinterested
recommendation or to give Mr and Mrs B advice or information on that basis. However, even
if its right to suggest that Mr and Mrs B should have been presented with a range of lenders
to choose from, theres little to nothing to demonstrate that they have suffered a financial
loss because they entered into a credit agreement with H rather than another lender. And,
for that reason, Im not persuaded that created or contributed to an unfair relationship
between Mr B and H on this occasion given the facts and circumstances of this complaint.
Was the loan irresponsible?
Mr B says that the lender were in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan.
However, even if the lender didnt complete adequate affordability checks (and I make no
finding about that) when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large
consideration is whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and
whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender.
So, for me to say the lender needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see
that the credit granted by H was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr B suffered a loss as a
result. As theres little evidence that he would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay what
he was lent, Im not persuaded the agreement was unaffordable for him or that there was
any unfair relationship created by any potential failure to assess the credit application more
thoroughly.
Ultimately, I dont think a court would find evidence to suggest there was an unfair
relationship and Im not therefore persuaded it would be reasonable to expect Oplo to uphold
Mr Bs s.140A claim.
My provisional decision
Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider. So, Ive not 
been persuaded to change my provisional decision, and that becomes my final decision on 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman