DRN-4414075
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of claims made 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M has an insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds which covers her homes buildings, 
amongst other things. She made potentially related claims some years ago relating to an 
escape of water from a mains pipe under her kitchen floor and subsidence damage to parts 
of the house.
Lloyds accepted the claims and carried out remedial repair work. Mrs M wasnt happy with 
the outcome of those repairs or with the delays and poor communication / customer service 
in Lloyds and their contractors handling of the claim and the repair work.
Mrs M has made several complaints to Lloyds. They provided final responses to those 
complaints in: June 2020, September 2020, February 2021, June 2021, July 2021 (two final 
responses  one on 20 July and one on 30 July) and November 2021.
In total, Lloyds have paid or offered close to £1,300 in compensation to Mrs M for the trouble 
and upset caused by the delays and service failures.
In January 2022, Mrs M brought her complaint to us. It was about delays, poor 
communication, poor customer service and failure to complete the repairs in a satisfactory 
manner.
In terms of the repairs, Mrs M appeared to be concerned about two things in particular.
One, she said the ceiling and walls beneath her bathroom were still damp. She suspects an 
on-going leak from the pipes in the bathroom, caused ultimately by the subsidence and not 
repaired satisfactorily by Lloyds contractors.
Two, she believes a problem with damp on the ground floor is related to the original escape 
of water. And again, she says this hasnt been properly dealt with by Lloyds contractors.
In February 2022, Lloyds made an offer to settle the complaint(s). They said theyd pay 
Mrs M £300 for the trouble and upset shed been caused by delays and poor communication 
/ customer service.
They said theyd apply warm paint to the walls and ceiling in Mrs Ms kitchen, which they 
believed would resolve any damp / condensation issues in that area. And they said theyd 
replace her kitchen floor.
Our investigator thought that offer was fair and reasonable. But Mrs M didnt accept it and 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I agreed with our investigator that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. But I disagreed 
about what Lloyds needed to do to put things right. So, I issued a provisional decision. This 
gave both Mrs M and Lloyds a chance to provide further information or evidence and/or to 
comment on my thinking before I make my final decision in this case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What we can and cant consider
I need to be clear first of all about what I can and cant consider as part of the 
complaint Mrs M has brought to us.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys rules  the dispute resolution (or DISP) rules  set 
out our services role, including what complaints we are allowed to investigate and 
consider. We dont have any discretion to ignore or set aside those rules.
Amongst other things, the DISP rules say that we cant consider a complaint brought 
to us more than six months after the business in question has provided its final 
response to the complainant. That is, unless the business consents to our doing so 
or there are exceptional circumstances to explain why the complaint could not have 
been brought earlier.
We dont have Lloyds consent to look at complaints brought by Mrs M to us more 
than six months after their final response. And I know that Mrs M suffers from serious 
illness but, given that shes been in almost constant touch with Lloyds throughout the 
relevant period, there are no exceptional circumstances which might explain why she 
couldnt have brought her complaints to us earlier.
So, we cant look now at the issues covered by Lloyds final responses to Mrs M 
before 27 July 2021 (the date six months prior to Mrs M bringing her complaint to us). 
We can look at the issues covered in the latest two final responses  dated 30 July 
2021 and 30 November 2021.
This is important because Im therefore not allowed to go back and second guess the 
compensation payments made by Lloyds in those five earlier final responses  which 
covered the trouble and upset caused by delays and poor service (alongside some 
very specific issues about the repairs) up to 20 July 2021.
Mrs M has been paid almost £1,000 by Lloyds cumulatively over the five earlier final 
responses. Any award I make relating to compensation for trouble and upset will 
cover only the period after 20 July 2021.
The DISP rules also say we can only look at complaints the business have had a 
chance to resolve with their customer themselves. Mrs M got Lloyds final response 
to her two latest complaints to them on 30 July 2021 and 30 November 2021.
However, Lloyds did make a further offer to settle matters in February 2022, after our 
investigation had begun. And that was an offer to settle all matters up to that date. 
So, Im able to look at things up to February 2022.
So, in short, when considering compensation for trouble and upset, I can only look at 
events between late July 2021 and February 2022 (seven months or so).I understand the claim  and any further work to be carried out by Lloyds or their 
contractors  has been on hold since Mrs M made her complaint to us. That appears 
to be at Mrs Ms request.
I mention this only to stress that it would be odd if Mrs M were to make a further 
complaint - after this one - about delays after February 2022. As far as I can see from 
the evidence we have to hand, any delays after that point are due to Mrs Ms request 
that Lloyds cease progressing the claim and/or works until our investigation is 
finished.
The compensation
Lloyds have offered to pay Mrs M a further £300 to compensate her for her trouble 
and upset between July 2021 and February 2022 (around seven months). This is in 
addition to the £1,000 or so Mrs M has been paid by Lloyds in relation to the five 
earlier complaints.
I can see from the evidence we have on file that there were issues around 
communication and customer service in the period that I can consider in this 
decision. I dont need to go into too much detail, because Lloyds have admitted those 
failings  hence their offer to pay the further £300 to Mrs M.
Given the time period in question, Im minded to agree with Lloyds that £300 is fair 
and reasonable compensation given the stress, distress and inconvenience Mrs M 
suffered as a result of Lloyds failings.
Remaining complaint issues
Its fair to say that there has been a lot of correspondence exchanged about Mrs Ms 
claims and complaint. And there have been a significant number of issues raised at 
different times.
For the sake of our understanding and clarity, we recently asked Mrs M to tell us 
what issues remained live, as far as she was concerned, as opposed to those which 
had now been resolved.
Of course, Im aware that Mrs M was concerned about delays, poor communication 
and poor customer service  between the operative dates (late July 2021 to February 
2022)  and Ive dealt with those issues in the section above.
She also told us she remained concerned about the effectiveness of the repairs 
carried out to address the escape of water under her kitchen floor. And she said she 
felt Lloyds had overlooked a leak in the bathroom pipes which continued to cause 
damp problems with her kitchen ceiling and walls.
She said there was an on-going issue with the plumbing of the waste pipe under the 
sink in her kitchen  which had been replaced as part of the repair work after the 
escape of water claim. Mrs M was also concerned about repairs carried out in her 
yard, which had left an uneven and dangerous surface.
And she said that two different builders had told her that the subsidence ought to 
have been addressed by underpinning the house, whereas Lloyds had used a 
different means to address the problem and cracks were now re-appearing in her 
house.Ill deal with these remaining issues in turn below.
The escape of water under the kitchen floor 
The original escape of water appears to have been caused by a split mains water 
pipe under the kitchen floor. It appears this may have remained on-going and 
undiscovered for a prolonged period, given that it was hidden.
Lloyds say they carried out work to repair the pipes and sufficiently dry the house 
before carrying out the replacement work in the kitchen itself.
In a nutshell, Mrs M says Lloyds have refused to give her a copy of a drying 
certificate. And she believes the issues werent properly addressed, leaving her with 
an on-going issue with damp.
Lloyds had an inspection carried out in October 2021 by a damp expert. Theres no 
formal report of that visit, but there is a detailed summary contained in an email from 
the damp expert to Lloyds.
The expert says that there is still a damp issue on the ground floor of the property. 
He says this may be because the property never had a damp proof course, or 
because it had one, but its no longer effective or has been breached in some way.
Mrs M has at least implied that she thinks the damp issues which remain are related 
to the original escape of water and the fact it was never dried out properly.
As part of the settlement offer Lloyds made in February 2022, they said theyd 
replace Mrs Ms kitchen floor, which is made of flag stones.
We asked whether they intended to also install a damp proof course or membrane 
and/or to repair the existing one (if there is one). Lloyds told us they didnt intend to 
do so - and theyd been advised that the flag stones would act as their own damp 
proof course, in essence. I should note here that we havent seen copies any such 
advice at present.
Everyone agrees that Mrs M has an on-going problem with damp, seemingly 
throughout her ground floor. It seems to me that Lloyds dont know with any 
reasonable degree of certainty what the cause of that damp issue is.
The expert only says that it may be a problem with the damp proofing. And he clearly 
hasnt carried out enough of an inspection to know whether there was in fact a damp 
proof course at all  or, if so, how its been breached or rendered ineffective.
Given that there is also a subsidence claim at the property, its not beyond the 
bounds of possibility that if there is a damp proof course and it has been breached, 
that may have been caused by an insured event.
At the moment Lloyds appear not to have much idea about why Mrs Ms ground floor 
is still damp. And I dont see that replacing the kitchen floor alone, as Lloyds offered 
to do, is any guarantee at all that the damp issues will be resolved. It seems 
inherently more likely to me that they will not.
Unless I receive further information or evidence which changes my mind then, Im 
minded to require Lloyds to have a thorough damp inspection carried out by a 
qualified expert (and not the one who carried out the previous inspection).That inspection should determine whether there is still a damp problem on the 
ground floor at the property. It should also determine whether there is or was any 
damp proofing on the ground floor at the property. And if there is or was, it should 
determine what the most likely cause of its being breached or rendered ineffective 
was  and whether this was likely an insured event.
On receipt of that report, Lloyds should reconsider their response to Mrs Ms claim. If 
its likely the on-going damp is not caused by an insured event, then they need to 
explain this to Mrs M.
If it is likely to have been caused by an insured event  either the original escape of 
water or another insured event  then Lloyds would need to consider Mrs Ms claim 
in line with the remaining terms of the policy and if no exclusions or conditions apply, 
put together a comprehensive plan for repair works.
The damp issue in the kitchen walls and ceiling
Mrs M believes theres an on-going leak in her bathroom which is causing the ceiling 
and upper walls of the room below (the kitchen) to be damp.
When the damp expert visited, he noted that there was damp to the walls and ceiling. 
But he inspected the bathroom and could find no evidence of a leak at all. He thought 
the problem might be due to condensation  a suspicion that solidified when he 
spotted that ventilation fitted into the outside wall of the kitchen had been fitted (by a 
third party) partly upside down.
That inspection appears thorough and the conclusions the expert reached are well-
reasoned and persuasive. Lloyds offered to apply a coat of warm paint to the affected 
areas in Mrs Ms kitchen, which they felt would likely solve the problem, in 
conjunction with the necessary adjustment to the ventilation.
Given that the inspection visit took place what is now almost two years ago, we took 
the view that it should by now be blindingly obvious whether there was any on-going 
leak from the bathroom pipes. If there were, we might expect the damage to Mrs Ms 
kitchen to be by now quite extensive.
We asked Mrs M recently whether the situation with her kitchen ceiling and walls had 
become worse. She didnt answer our question or provide any further evidence that 
the supposed leak was continuing and/or making the situation worse.
Unless I get any further information or evidence to change my mind then, Im going to 
assume that the situation has stabilised and that its now apparent that there is no 
continuing leak from the bathroom through to the kitchen.
If that is the case, then Lloyds offer to help Mrs M deal with condensation or 
ventilation issues by applying a coat of warm paint in the affected areas would be 
entirely fair and reasonable.
The sink waste pipe, the yard and the underpinning
We asked Mrs M whether shed ever raised any of these three issues with Lloyds. 
And if so, could she provide evidence that shed done so. Mrs M didnt answer our 
question about these issues. And provided no evidence to suggest that shed ever 
raised them specifically with Lloyds at any point.So, Im assuming they have not been raised as complaints with Lloyds. And if they 
havent, then we cant look into them (for the same reason I set out above  the DISP 
rules say we cant look into issues the business hasnt had a chance to look into and 
resolve themselves).
If Mrs M wants to raise a further complaint with Lloyds about these three issues, 
shed be entitled to do so  and then bring it to our service if she wasnt satisfied with 
Lloyds response. But unless and until she does so, we cant look into them.
Its not our role to become, in effect, a substitute claims handler for Lloyds and/or to 
deal with new issues as they arise after the complaint has been brought to us.
And so, in summary, I said that for those reasons, I was minded to require Lloyds to: pay 
Mrs M £300 in compensation for her trouble and upset; carry out the promised works on the 
walls and ceiling in the kitchen; carry out a further damp inspection to determine the cause of 
the damp issues on the ground floor; and reconsider their response to the claim in light of 
that inspection. 
The responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds responded simply to say that they thought a further expert inspection to, as they put it 
review the issues with the kitchen flooring would be beneficial. And they proposed an 
independent chartered surveyor to carry out that inspection. Im going to assume that Lloyds 
had no objection to my other proposals around compensation and the works to the kitchen 
walls and ceiling.
Mrs M responded to my provisional decision at some length. Ill summarise what she said 
and hope Mrs M will understand that I wont repeat here everything she mentioned. The 
main issues raised by Mrs M were as follows.
The proposed further damp inspection
Mrs M agreed that a further inspection was necessary. She asked that she be allowed to 
commission that inspection to ensure the independence of the appointed expert. Although 
Lloyds should be required to pay for it. 
She said the inspection should determine whether the damp was caused by the original 
escape of water from the main water pipe or by a failure of the damp proof course. And she 
thinks soil testing would assist in this.
The works to be carried out after the inspection
Mrs M thinks it should be possible for Lloyds to provide a copy of a drying certificate after the 
works suggested by the inspection are carried out. 
She thinks her skirting boards on the ground floor should be replaced because they are 
rotten. And that Lloyds should ensure, when they replace her kitchen floor, that there is a 
match with the flooring in her lounge  which she describes as continuous from the kitchen. 
Damp by her front door resulting from a leak from a gutter 
Mrs M believes Lloyds should also include in their future works repairs to a damp area near 
her front door, which she believes is the result of a leaking gutter. The gutter has now been 
replaced, but there has been nothing done to address the potential damage inside the 
property.Two excesses
Mrs M says she was charged two excesses for two claims  relating separately to: (a) the 
escape of water under her kitchen; and (b) subsidence in her property. She says that if the 
subsidence was caused by the escape of water, she shouldnt have paid two excesses for 
what in effect was one insured event.
Damage to the kitchen walls and ceiling
Mrs M says that the damage to her kitchen ceiling and walls has not become any worse. But 
she believes this is because she hasnt used the bath. And she thinks the supposed leak 
may be from the overflow pipe to the bath. 
She says the original problem was nothing to do with the ventilation in the kitchen being 
fitted upside down. This issue was resolved by the original contractors within a very short 
space of time.
The sink waste pipe, the yard and the underpinning
Mrs M says shes spoken to Lloyds contractors about these issues (set out in the section 
above). And so, they should come within the ambit of this complaint  and this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Lloyds that it would be best to appoint an independent chartered surveyor to 
carry out the proposed damp inspection at the property.
I think this covers Mrs Ms request that she be allowed to appoint the surveyor in order to 
ensure their independence. I dont think that would be necessary in all the circumstances - 
and Lloyds proposal is fair and reasonable.
Mrs M asks that the inspection determine the cause of the damp issues. I agree  and thats 
what I said in my provisional decision. I dont propose to instruct the surveyor how to carry 
out their job. They are the expert in this situation. And they will no doubt decide whether soil 
testing is appropriate and/or necessary.
In terms of the work to be carried out after the inspection, Im afraid Mrs M might be jumping 
the gun slightly here. The inspection will determine whether  and what - damage has been 
caused by an insured event. If the inspection determines that there is remaining damage 
caused by an insured event, then Lloyds will need to address that. Thats why my provisional 
decision said that Lloyds must reconsider their response to the claim in light of the inspection 
report.
To be clear though, if the on-going damp issues were caused by an insured event  and 
assuming no policy exclusion applies - then Lloyds will need to carry out works to repair any 
resultant damage, in line with the terms of the policy. 
And I should emphasise that may not be restricted to the kitchen floor, as Lloyds response 
to my provisional decision appeared to suggest. The purpose of the proposed inspection is 
to ascertain whether and where there is damp through the whole of the downstairs of the 
property (the original damp report suggested the damp was widespread)  and to determine 
the cause of that damp.  I would expect any repairs would include Mrs Ms skirting boards if the damp was caused by 
an insured event and the damp caused the damage to the skirting boards.
And if Lloyds do replace Mrs Ms kitchen floor  which again will be determined by the 
inspection report  then theyll have to consider whether the damp issues also caused 
damage elsewhere downstairs. If so - and that damage was caused by damp caused by an 
insured event  then Lloyds will need to put that damage right too. That might include repairs 
the floor in the lounge.
Alternatively, if the lounge floor is undamaged by any insured event but the kitchen floor has 
to be replaced, then Lloyds will need to consider whether the terms of the policy require 
them to replace the lounge floor - or contribute to the cost of replacing it. Its not for me to 
determine that now  particularly since we dont yet have the inspection report.
If Lloyds accept that the current damp issues were caused by an insured event and they 
carry out repairs, I can see no reason why they wouldnt provide Mrs M with a copy of the 
drying certificate. Although again, thats not something for me to determine now.
I dont believe Mrs M has made any complaint to Lloyds about having to pay two excesses 
relating to the escape of water claim and the subsidence claim. So, I cant look at that in this 
decision  for reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
For the same reasons, I cant determine what Lloyds should do about the damage near 
Mrs Ms front door caused by the leaking gutter. Im not sure whether Mrs M is suggesting 
that this damage is related to the original subsidence claim. If so, shell need to raise this 
issue with Lloyds now. If not, shell need to make a separate claim if she hasnt done so 
already. 
This wasnt an issue brought to our attention until now - and it appears not to have been 
subject to any complaint Mrs M made to Lloyds. So, Im not going to consider it in this 
decision.
Mrs M has now confirmed that there appears to be no on-going damage to her kitchen walls 
and ceiling. Which suggests Lloyds were right to propose the repairs they suggested 
originally. 
Mrs Ms view is that the supposed leak is likely from her bath overflow pipe  which has not 
been used. 
However, the original inspection said there was no detectable leak at all from the pipes in the 
bathroom  and there is no evidence at all to contradict that at present. All the available 
evidence  including Mrs Ms own comments  suggest there is no on-going damage and no 
on-going leak.
If Mrs M uses her bath and the overflow pipe and this leads to further damage, then Id 
expect Lloyds to consider that and respond accordingly. But as things stand, I cant 
reasonably ask them to do anything more. 
As regards the issues with the sink waste pipe, the yard and the underpinning, Mrs M tells us 
she discussed these with Lloyds contractors. Whilst I have no reason to doubt her, Mrs M 
still hasnt provided any evidence that she raised these issues with Lloyds as part of any of 
her formal complaints to them. So, I cant consider them here.
In summary, I appreciate both Lloyds and Mrs M responding to my provisional decision with 
helpful information and comment. However, I can see no reason to change my mind about what the outcome of this case should be.  
Putting things right
I explained in my provisional decision what I thought Lloyds needed to do now to put things 
right for Mrs M  and why. I wont repeat that here. As I say, the responses to my provisional 
decision have given me no reason to change my mind about the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must:
pay Mrs M £300 in compensation for her trouble and upset;
carry out the work they offered to do to address the issues with damp / condensation 
in the ceiling and upper walls of Mrs Ms kitchen;
carry out a further damp inspection  by a qualified expert who hasnt been involved 
with this claim before  to determine the causes of the on-going damp issues with 
Mrs Ms ground floor; and
reconsider their response to the claim in light of that report.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman