DRN-2495487
Complaint
Miss E has complained that Amigo Loans Ltd (Amigo) provided her with a number of 
guarantor loans which she was unable to afford. She says she repeatedly struggled to keep 
up with the payments, which resulted in further borrowing.
Miss E says that if Amigo had carried out the correct financial checks she wouldnt have 
been accepted for the loans in the first place. And while she might have been disappointed 
at the time she wouldnt have ended up in deeper financial difficulty. Shes also unhappy that 
Amigo hounded her with messages about further loans. 
 
Background to the complaint and my provisional decision of 8 December 2020
Amigo provided Miss E with four guarantor loans. On two occasions, Miss E was given 
further funds (top-ups) while she still had an outstanding balance. As Amigo doesnt allow 
borrowers to have more than one outstanding loan at a time, Miss E entered into completely 
new loan agreements where the new loan included a sum to clear the outstanding balance 
on the previous one, as well as the additional funds Amigo agreed to provide.
Miss Es overall lending history with Amigo is as follows:
Loan Provided Term Amount Funds paid to Miss E Retained by Amigo Repayment
1 April 2013 36 months £2,500 £2,500 £0 £121.97
2 July 2014 48 months £3,750 £1,811.86 £1,938.14 (Loan1) £160.41
3 November 2014 36 months £2,000 £2,000 £0 £97.58
4 June 2015 60 months £4,000 £2,165.75 £1,834.29 (Loan 3) £158.10
One of our investigators looked at what Amigo and Miss E said and thought Amigo hadnt 
carried out proportionate checks before providing any of these loans. He also thought that if 
Amigo had checked further it would have seen that these loans werent sustainable and so 
he upheld the complaint. 
Amigo disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. Its response was split into three sections. 
In summary, section 1 of the response entitled General observations relevant to the case 
said:
While it was responding to the three key questions set out in the investigators 
assessment, this shouldnt be taken as any formal acceptance on its part that it 
considers this an appropriate and safe basis upon which the ombudsman should 
assess the case.
Our investigator failed to take account of the nature of the market in which Amigo 
operates, the steps it took to satisfy itself as to Miss Es circumstances and the 
responses she freely made. 
Amigo typically served (and continues to serve) clients who tend to have poor credit 
records and this isnt something it shies away from. Prior county court judgements 
and recorded defaults on previous arrangements are not uncommon. By borrowers 
providing a guarantor, Amigo has sought to provide those who had a reasonable 
prospect of being able to sustain the proposed lending at an option normally cheaper 
than overdrafts, credit card terms or payday lending. Accordingly, many customers 
are travelling from a poor credit history towards a more controlled credit usage.
Its processes have been shaped by many years of working with its client base to  
undertake a proportionate and practicable analysis of individual circumstances 
appropriate for its client base and the size of its loans, while providing for the 
particular features of its guarantor product.
Section 2 of the response, entitled The lending decision can be summarised as saying:
The checks made were fully compatible and compliant with legal regulatory 
requirements of the time. And as a matter of fact they should be judged as 
proportionate and adequate in the circumstances of Miss Es case as they were at 
the time. And the investigator made selective use of the facts of the case and the 
information available at the time to replace its reasonable judgement as a lender at 
that time with his own view five years later.
It carefully considered a customers credit items as set out in their credit file and any 
outstanding credit items were included in the affordability assessment along with a 
repayment status. A rich set of informative income and expenditure information was 
added to this. This information was validated against industry data  for example a 
credit reference agency to assess reasonableness of income statements and Office 
of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess the reasonableness of expenditure 
information. Any uncertainty or clearly critical information was discussed with the 
potential borrower to identify any issue that might suggest the lending was likely to be 
unsustainable.
Individually crafted formal additional inquires (of the sort implied in the investigators 
view) would be wholly disproportionate and unreasonable given the type, amount and 
cost of the credit and the customers financial position. This would make the cost of 
these transactions uneconomic and the regulator itself, in 2017, said it wished to 
avoid customers being priced out of accessing credit because of excessive or 
unnecessary processes.
The investigator brushed its decision process aside and instead inserted his own 
retrospective judgements about the nature of the information it should have obtained 
and the conclusions it should have drawn. He also included hindsight in his 
approach.
Its process was not based on automated judgements on credit scoring but involved 
additional disclosures and discussions with Miss E. Its approach was more extensive 
than most of its competitors and its wrong to imply any obligation existed to conduct 
extensive further formal enquiries in considering whether the loans were affordable 
for her.
Finally, Section 3 of the response was entitled Miss Es circumstances at the time of the 
agreement. And it can be summarised as saying:Our investigator was selective in the information used and failed to provide a 
balanced account of Miss Es circumstances at the time as disclosed to Amigo. A 
more balanced account of the circumstances at the time of loan 1 is that Miss E had 
a declared income of £1,250 a month from her job as an office administrator. She 
had declared expenditure of £575.12 per month leaving a meaningful net disposable 
income of £674.88. The disclosure of expenditure was full and complete.
She had a revolving credit balance of approaching £3,000.00 and specific loans with 
balances of around £6,500.00. It appears that she was generally managing credit 
well as there were no historic defaults and no active CCJs or other indicators of debt 
problems.
For loan 2 Miss Es income was £1,628.00 per month in the same job and she was in 
receipt of £80 in benefits. Her declared expenditure, which again was full and 
complete, was £1,143.33 per month. For loans 3 and 4 her income was £1791.86 
and £1,766.00 respectfully. There were no indicators of debt problems at the time on 
Miss Es credit file. Her overall indebtedness was within reasonable bounds and was 
generally well managed. There was no evidence of payday lending or similar issues. 
The information gathered highlighted no concerns with Miss Es financial situation or 
her ability to make the payments so there was no need to request additional 
information.
Checking contracts or bank statements isnt required and it is the investigator, with 
the benefit of hindsight, that thinks Amigo should have done that in this case. Miss E 
was asked to disclose information fully and honestly and subject to the 
reasonableness of this, Amigo was entitled to place significant reliance on what it 
was told. Miss E shouldnt be rewarded for any actively misleading statements. Given 
Miss Es income position was verified through the automated checks as plausible, it 
was entitled to rely on this when assessing affordability.
Miss E maintained all the payments and settled the agreements in full and on time. 
While this isnt proof of affordability it can and should be considered a material 
indicator in all the circumstances that these loans were in principle and in fact 
affordable for Miss E.
Miss Es case appears to be based on the fact that she made a number of misleading 
statements which she now considers should have been explored further and 
corrected. So Amigo reserves the right to have sight of all the relevant evidence and 
to consider whether it is adequately verified if relied upon to make any decision.
 
On 8 December 2020, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on      
Miss Es complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started out by setting out the regulatory framework and other relevant publications that I 
thought were important to my determination of Miss Es complaint.  The legal and regulatory framework
Regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
Amigo gave Miss E her first loan in the period up to the end of March 2014. During this time 
it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order to carry out 
consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1) In determining whether an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a) the applicant's skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses, consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit 
businesses;
(b) such skills, knowledge and experience of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c) practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d) evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body corporate, any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such person, has
(a) committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty or violence;
(b) contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 so far as it 
relates to the consumer credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c) contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d) practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e) engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful 
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis].Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper include practices in the carrying 
on of a consumer credit business that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce clear guidance on the test for irresponsible 
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
in Miss Es case.
The foreword to the guidance set out its purpose and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business practices that the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper business practices which, if engaged in by a consumer credit 
business, could call into consideration its fitness to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which might constitute irresponsible 
lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and 
fair business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising, selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit agreement
make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet 
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's repayment record during the course of the agreement, 
offering assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficultiesSection 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things, it says:
In addition to the above there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which 
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current indebtedness, poor 
credit history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration of the 
potential for the credit commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation, 
taking account of information that the creditor is aware of at the time the credit is granted. 
The extent and scope of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment, 
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties and/or experiencing adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running account credit, 
creditors should take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance. And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty and says:
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such as:
the type of credit product;
the amount of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower through a form or a meeting
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending 
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would 
include where a lender is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information to be able to reasonably assess affordability, prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided, or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running account credit agreement)And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
And section 4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application for credit under circumstances in which it is known, or reasonably 
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending practices relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory 
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors should take appropriate actionwhen/if there are signs of 
apparent / possible repayment difficulties.
Section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came into force. At this point the ILG was amended to 
reflect any changes required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional 
requirement on a lender to carry out an Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in 
section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act.
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in force until regulation of 
Consumer Credit providers passed to the FCA in April 2014.
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness of the 
debtor.
(2) Before significantly increasing
(a) the amount of credit to be provided under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement, or(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement, the creditor must undertake
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must be based on sufficient information obtained 
from
(a) the debtor, where appropriate, and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement if it is
(a) an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes an article in pawn..
By the time of loan two and for all of Miss Es subsequent loans (1 April 2014 onwards) this 
requirement to assess creditworthiness moved from S55B of the Consumer Credit Act, to the 
rules of the new regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Amigo gave Miss E loans two to four after regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees had 
transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. Amigo 
initially obtained interim permission to provide consumer credit before it went on to 
successfully apply for authorisation as a consumer credit provider. 
Amigos interim permission to provide consumer credit and its eventual authorisation to do 
so meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles here 
are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says: 
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules and guidance which apply to guarantor loan providers like Amigo 
when providing loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from 
the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of 
the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement 
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.8G provides an example of the above and says:
An example of where a firm ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been 
truthful may be that the information supplied by the customer concerning income or 
employment status is clearly inconsistent with other available information.
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Miss Es loans were given to her after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came 
into force on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may 
determine that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair relationships between creditors and debtors
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the 
creditor and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4) A determination may be made under this section in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5) An order under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit 
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated Activities Order by virtue of article 60C(2) of that Order 
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types of order the court could make should it determine that the 
relationship between the creditor and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2) An order under this section in connection with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a) require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole or in part) any sum paid by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of 
the agreement or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor, the 
associate or the former associate or to any other person);]
(b) require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection 
with the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d) direct the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e) otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety by virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f) alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;(g) direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
Other relevant publications 
The ILG and CONC set out the regulatory framework that regulated/authorised lenders have 
to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. And as Ive explained, Im 
also required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
The FCAs review findings of Relending by high-cost lenders
On 6 August 2020, the FCA published the findings of its review of relending by lenders in its 
high-cost lending portfolio (which Amigo is included in). I accept this (as well as the portfolio 
strategy letter Ill go on to refer to) was published sometime after Miss Es loans were 
agreed. But as it didnt include any new rules and dealt with how firms ought to regard 
applications for credit when providing additional loans, I think it offers some insight on the 
FCAs perspective on the rules. So I consider it to be of some relevance in this case.   
In the section entitled Relending and customer outcomes the report says:
Firms should ensure that relending leads to positive customer outcomes and does 
not cause harm
Our analysis of data provided by firms and our consumer research shows breaches of 
specific rules as well as breaches of our principles for business. In this report, we set out 
what we have found, our expectations and examples of what firms can do to meet these 
principles. 
From developments in the market, including trends in Financial Ombudsman Service 
complaints and a number of high-cost short-term credit (HCSTC) firms entering 
administration as a result of liabilities for complaints, we can see the consequences for firms 
that fail to adequately assess affordability or relend in a way that is sustainable for their 
customers.
Across the portfolio, we have seen levels of debt increasing as customers take additional 
loans. We did not generally observe additional credit being used to maintain existing levels 
of debt. Some customers told us they have experienced financial difficulties caused by 
relending and related anxiety and stress. Many regret their additional borrowing and the 
consequent financial position they find themselves in.
High-cost credit customers are more likely to be vulnerable, have low financial resilience and 
poor credit histories. They often hold multiple credit products and have to juggle repayments, 
sometimes having to decide which priority debts to pay when they dont have enough for all. 
We have significant concerns that repeat borrowing could be a strong indicator of a pattern 
of dependency on high-cost credit and levels of debt that are harmful to the customer.
We therefore expect firms not to encourage refinancing of credit agreements where the 
customers commitments are not sustainable. We also expect firms to only agree to 
refinance if they reasonably believe that it is not against the customer's best interests to do 
so.From our analysis, we have seen that this is not always the case and we set out our views of 
the potential drivers of harm and request that firms assess their relending operations to 
ensure they remain appropriate and consistent with our principles.
Customers have also told us they rely on credit and, despite wanting to be in a better 
financial position, they are used to living in debt and expect to need to continue to borrow in 
the future. We have seen firms servicing customers needs by providing additional 
borrowing. But we are concerned that relending can move from a positive customer 
experience into one which causes harm.
For all high-cost lending business models in our sample, relending is a significant part of 
their business. Many firms, particularly those offering small value loans, do not make a profit 
on a customers first loan. Profitability in high-cost lending firms is therefore mainly driven by 
relending. For nearly all firms, profitability increases for subsequent loans, in many cases 
substantially.
The section entitled Increasing levels of debt and repayments says:
The level of debt and repayments can increase significantly, to the point where it is 
no longer affordable or sustainable for some customers
We reviewed a sample of the borrowing history of around 250,000 customers to better 
understand the customer journey with each firm in our sample. We saw that relending 
caused both the level of debt and repayment amount to increase nearly every time further 
borrowing was taken.
We remind firms of our Dear CEO letter from October 2018, sent to all HCSTC firms (but 
which equally applies to other firms in the high-cost lenders portfolio). In that, we highlighted 
the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given that it could indicate a pattern of dependency 
on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous affordability assessments are key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are making proportionate and 
responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing. Further, firms must not 
encourage a customer to refinance a regulated credit agreement if the result would be the 
customer's commitments are not sustainable.
We are concerned in some instances to see levels of debt and repayments increase 
significantly. We saw levels of relending often double within a 2 to 3 year period. Figures 1 
and 2 show how a typical customers overall debt and repayments can escalate to 
considerable levels.
At some point, rising levels of overall debt and repayments will become unsustainable for 
customers. From our consumer research, we are concerned that firms are lending to 
customers beyond levels which they can sensibly manage and causing customer harm as a 
result. Notably:
48% of customers told us that they had to cut back on other spending to make their loan 
repayments
37% told us they had missed payments on their rent, mortgage, utility bills or council tax in 
the last 6 months, to ensure they could make repayments on their relending
16% of customers reported their most recent relending was taken to repay debt with other 
firms
45% of customers told us they regretted taking out additional lending
45% of customers said they had experienced anxiety and stress in the previous few weeks 
because of financial difficultiesWe are particularly concerned to see behaviour which suggests some customers may be 
managing financial difficulties through further borrowing. We consider that additional 
borrowing should not be used, in effect, as a debt management solution. When considering 
an application for refinancing where the firm is aware that the customer is a regular user and 
appears dependant on high-cost credit we expect the firm to assess the customers best 
interests. They do this by considering the customers overall financial situation and whether 
forbearance or debt advice might be more appropriate than additional lending.
We are also concerned to see some firms not taking their responsibilities to assess 
affordability for repeat borrowers as seriously as we would expect. For example, rather than 
gather up-to-date customer information, some firms ask customers to confirm there have 
been no changes in their financial circumstances since the last affordability check was 
completed and some online applications pre-fill answers with the last details given. While we 
recognise that firms may want to streamline and automate their processes, they must base 
every lending decision on up-to-date and accurate information.
There has been some debate in the HCSTC market about how our creditworthiness rules 
should apply to repeat lending.
Other than for rollovers, our rules do not expressly prevent firms from issuing more than a 
particular number of loans to a customer. However, firms do still need to comply with our 
creditworthiness rules in doing so, including assessing the affordability risk to the 
borrower. This is a view shared by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
And the section entitled Relending, profitability and consumer harm says:
 
Relending accounts for a high proportion of business and drives profitability in 
many firms, which gives rise to customer harm
In addition to examining customer loan histories, we also reviewed a sample of firms loan 
books to understand the proportion of and growth in relending over a 3-year period.
We identified that most firms had more repeat than first-time borrowers and repeat 
borrowers accounted for more than 80% of all customers at many firms. We recognise there 
are additional financial costs of acquiring new customers and acknowledge there are 
commercial reasons for lending to existing customers rather than expanding the customer 
base. However, we remind firms of their requirement to lend responsibly and to be mindful 
that driving profitability through repeat lending has the potential to lead to poor customer 
outcomes if not properly managed.
Having looked at customer lending journeys we are concerned that some customers may be 
suffering harm because of over indebtedness and we expect firms to review their lending 
practices and operations to ensure they are appropriately discharging their obligations to 
lend responsibly.
The FCAs Portfolio Strategy Letter to firms providing high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officers of all 
the firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of 
the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers and the markets they operate in. On 
page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed 
their strategies and business models. We considered a wide range of information and data, including firms regulatory histories, the number and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across the 
High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending 
patterns
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers 
may not be able to afford.
We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor lending:
the proportion of loan repayments that guarantors make has risen considerably, 
which could indicate that affordability on the part of the borrowers is falling
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking into account the Financial Ombudsman Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
Further detail in relation to the FCAs future work was provided on page four of the letter. 
The section entitled Additional focus for firms providing guarantor lending said:
As well as the areas of focus above, we will also prioritise our supervisory work with firms 
that provide guarantor loans in the following area: 
Payments made by guarantor: 
Our diagnostic work on guarantor lending showed that many guarantors make at least one 
repayment and the proportion of guarantors making payments is growing. We want to 
understand the root causes for this increase, and whether firms are conducting adequate 
affordability assessments. We are also concerned that guarantors may not fully understand 
how likely it is that they will be called upon to make a payment. So, as well as our broad 
portfolio-wide work on relending, we will start a piece of complementary work on guarantor 
lending. This will establish whether potential guarantors have enough information to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.
The FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC) loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about the issues surrounding the increase in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm). If relevant, firms should take these examples of determinations into account as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern of dependency on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted that rigorous affordability assessments were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
The FCA Executive Director of Supervisions (Retail and Authorisations) speech at the Credit 
Summit, London, on 21 March 2019 
The FCAs Executive Director of Supervision gave a speech at the Credit Summit, which 
took place on 21 March 2019, entitled What can the consumer credit sector expect from the 
FCA? . 
The speech reiterated much of what was said in the High Cost Credit portfolio strategy letter 
(set out above) issued on 6 March 2019. And in his speech the Executive Director of 
Supervision said:
Over the last few years we have seen a dramatic increase in the use of guarantor loans by 
consumers. Balances on guarantor loans are fast approaching £1 billion and these have 
more than doubled since 2016.  
While these products provide an opportunity for those with thin credit files - poor or limited 
credit history - we do have concerns. Concerns about affordability. Recent work we have 
done in this area showed that many guarantors are making at least 1 payment and the 
proportion of guarantors making these payments is growing.
There is also growing anecdotal evidence that guarantors may not understand how likely it is 
that they will be called upon to make a payment. Our work will therefore focus on 
affordability and on understanding whether potential guarantors have enough information to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced. 
We have already amended certain rules to ensure that the protections they provide to 
borrowers also extend to guarantors, for example rules requiring forbearance, pre-
contractual explanations and fair treatment. In assessing creditworthiness, we have clarified 
that firms must undertake a reasonable assessment of the potential for the guarantors 
commitment to have a significant adverse impact on their financial situation.
And if the guarantor is called upon, we have published guidance on our view of what 
constitutes enforcement of the guarantee under the CCA  in practice this means we 
expect firms to provide guarantors with adequate notice before exercising a Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA).
There are also questions over the level of interest rates charged on these products 
considering that these guarantors are deemed to be credit worthy, we will therefore be 
considering this and the business models of these firms.Information on Amigos website
In addition to the relevant considerations set out above, I also note that in June 2014 (just 
before Miss E applied for her second Amigo loan), the Amigo homepage included the 
following statements (date stamped 25 June 2014):
A cheaper way to borrow
Our flexible guarantor loans are around 100th of the APR of a payday loan and are regularly 
featured by price comparison sites as the cheapest option for anyone borrowing £500-£5000 
with a low credit score.
Rebuilding your credit
We want to help make your financial future better; so we report back to all three credit 
reference agencies, each month, showing your repayments. As payments are made on time 
this will help to build or rebuild your credit profile. No information is reported back to credit 
reference agencies for guarantors, even if payments are missed, unless the account goes to 
court. 
The what the papers say section of the homepage includes a quote from the Daily Mail (I 
understand that this statement remains on the homepage to this day) which says:
Good stepping-stone loan for those with poor credit histories. 
 As I had set out at the start of my provisional decision, Amigos response was split into three 
sections. The first of those sections providing general observations and comments regarding 
Amigos lending model. I confirmed that I didnt propose to respond to these points 
individually, bearing in mind I was and am required to consider what is fair and 
circumstances of this particular case rather than Amigos approach to lending as a whole. 
But nonetheless I kept these points in mind  insofar as they related to Miss Es complaint  
in my consideration of this case.
Amigos response replied to the three key questions set out in our investigators view. But 
even though its initial file submission also confirmed it initially assessed Miss Es complaint 
on this basis, its later response to our investigators assessment said that this shouldnt be 
taken as it considering this a safe and appropriate basis upon which an ombudsman should 
decide the case. But it didnt provide an alternative approach nor any persuasive arguments 
against the questions in the investigators assessment being relevant to the consideration of 
Miss Es complaint. 
As this was the case, I confirmed that having taken into account the relevant rules, guidance, 
good industry practice and law, I thought there were three overarching questions, which had 
originally been set out in our investigators assessment, and which I needed to consider in 
order to decide what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Es complaint. 
These questions were:
Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss E would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss E wouldve been able to 
do so?Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Amigo ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Es 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided further loans?
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I also said that if I determined that Amigo hadnt acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss E and that she had lost out as a result, I would go on to consider what was fair 
compensation.
I started by considering the first of the questions. 
My consideration of this matter began by me explaining that the regulations in place 
throughout the time Amigo lent to Miss E required it to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay her loan in a sustainable 
manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
These checks had to be borrower focused  so Amigo had to think about whether repaying 
the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss E. Amigo 
had referred to the presence of a guarantor in its submissions. But this didnt alter the fact 
that it was entering into consumer credit agreements with Miss E, or its obligations in respect 
of them. So, notwithstanding the existence of a guarantor, Amigo had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss E undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Amigo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss E. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).I explained that there might also be other factors which could influence how detailed a 
proportionate check shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) 
any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. 
Were Amigos checks reasonable and proportionate?
My response to this question started by saying that Amigo had spoken in broad terms about 
the checks carried out before providing these loans. It says Miss E was asked for information 
about her income and expenditure during her online application. It then went through this 
information with her after cross-referencing the initial answers with information from credit 
reference agencies and ONS data used to assess the reasonableness of what was provided. 
Loan 1
Amigo said Miss Es declared income of £1,250 was verified using data that Miss Es bank 
and other lenders provided to a credit reference agency. Amigo wasnt entirely clear or 
forthcoming on what this meant. I assumed it compared the income Miss E declared on this 
application to what shed declared on others made to her bank and other lenders. Although I 
said that Id welcome Amigos clarification on this in its response to my provisional decision. 
As far as I could see at best Amigo cross-referenced rather than verified what Miss E said. 
And, in any event, I wasnt necessarily persuaded that simply checking whether the same 
income figure had been declared on other applications was a particularly accurate method 
either. Nonetheless, I went on to consider the reasonableness of Amigo proceeding with this 
information in light of everything else it had.   
Amigo provided a copy of a screenshot from its systems, which recorded some information 
in relation to Miss Es expenditure. This suggested that Miss E had a total monthly 
expenditure of £575.12. It was made up of regular living costs recorded as £324. I say 
recorded because its unclear whether this is was declared or whether this was information 
substituted in as a result of ONS data. The screenshot also recorded monthly expenditure of 
£16.67 on clothing, quite how such a figure was arrived at wasnt particularly clear either. 
The rest of Miss Es expenditure was made up of repayments towards existing credit. I did 
have some concerns with the information recorded for Miss Es existing debts. Two of     
Miss Es six accounts were recorded as having payments being made by other parties. And I 
was particularly concerned about what was recorded for the first credit card account as it 
simply said third-party pays, without any indication whatsoever as to who, how or why this 
was the case.  
I thought there was an argument for saying Amigo should have probed Miss E further on this 
as these debts were in her name and therefore her responsibility. But bearing in mind the 
balances on these accounts were relatively small and there didnt appear to have been any 
significant issues on the credit search carried out on Miss E  her worst payment status over 
the past 12 and 36 months was one month in arrears  I didnt think the decision not to 
probe this further was unreasonable. 
As Id set out on pages seven and ten of my provisional decision, the rules and guidance in 
place at the time provides guidance on the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness 
assessments. The rules and guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not being 
sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit 
relative to the customers financial situation. This loan wasnt cheap - at least in terms of the APR when compared to typical mainstream 
credit products at the time. But I was mindful the monthly repayments were relatively small, 
took up a relatively modest proportion of the income Miss E declared (and which wasnt 
contradicted by anything else in Amigos checks) and were due to be made over not too long 
a period. Equally, the credit search didnt show anything too concerning, or anything clearly 
at odds with Miss E having a monthly disposable income of around £675 - such as a 
substantially impaired credit history or excessive indebtedness.
I did accept that there was an argument for questioning why an individual with monthly 
disposable income of £675 would need or want to borrow £2,500.00 at a total cost of nearly 
£4,400. But ultimately I thought that it wasnt for me to decide whether it was a sensible 
decision to sign up to this loan, in these circumstances, or determine whether Miss E 
actually had £675 a month in disposable income. What I had to do was decide is whether 
Amigo did enough to be able to reasonably conclude Miss E would have sufficient funds in 
order to make her payments as and when they fell due.
Even with this question still outstanding and even though Amigo chose not to probe why 
some of Miss Es credit commitments were logged as being repaid by a third party, I was just 
about satisfied that there was enough here for Amigo to reasonably conclude Miss E would 
be able to sustainably make the monthly repayments of £121.97 to loan 1 over the 
scheduled term. As this was the case, I found that Amigo did complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks before providing loan 1 to Miss E.
Loan 2
Amigo appeared to have carried out the same checks as it did for loan 1 before agreeing to 
provide loan 2. But Id already explained that any checks had to be proportionate to the 
specific circumstances of the loan application. And even for the same customer, a 
proportionate check could look different for different applications. So I wanted to be clear in 
saying that it didnt automatically follow that the checks carried out for loan 2 were 
proportionate because I found that they were for loan 1.
Loan 2 was provided to Miss E some 15 months after loan 1. I listened to the phone call after 
the online process and noted that the helpline operative said just like last time she wanted to 
go through Miss Es ingoings and outgoings just to make sure she could comfortably afford 
the loan and she wanted to do it again just to make sure nothing has changed in her 
circumstances. 
This time Miss Es monthly income was recorded as being £1,628.00 even though she was 
recorded as being in the same employment. It was unclear to me what the validation checks 
said about this. Equally, I couldnt see or hear that there were any attempt to enquire as to 
how or why her monthly income had increased by such a significant amount  almost a third 
- in the 15 month period since her first application. And this was even though the call was 
taking place with the purpose of checking nothing had changed in Miss Es circumstances. 
Furthermore, the credit search carried out at the time of loan two showed that Miss E was far 
more indebted too. For example, at this time, the combined amount she owed on all her 
revolving credit accounts was around £10,000.00, up from £4,000 at the time of loan 1. She 
now owed more than double this amount at approaching £10,000.00. It was a similar 
position with Miss Es loan balances too. At the time of loan 1 she had one loan with a 
balance of around £6,000.00. By the time of this application she had, at least, two 
outstanding loan balances with a combined amount of over £13,000.00 owing. I said, at 
least, because there was a third loan with no monthly payments included with cleared debt 
recorded as the reason for this.Amigo said our investigator placed too much weight on Miss Es existing commitments and 
failed to take account of the nature of the market within which it operates. I considered both 
of these points together as, in my view, they were interlinked. 
In the first instance, I thought that it would be helpful to explain that as I didnt agree with our 
investigator that the checks for loan 1 werent reasonable and proportionate it followed I also 
didnt agree Miss Es increased indebtedness, in itself, indicated loan 2 was unaffordable. 
That said, I did think Amigo ought to have taken further steps to understand the reasons 
behind Miss Es increasing debt burden before agreeing to provide her with further funds.
I said this while especially mindful of the nature of the market which Amigo operates in. As 
Amigo itself said, it typically served (and continues to serve) borrowers who tend to have 
poor credit records. And as I mentioned in my section on other relevant information and 
good industry practice, the FCA had said High-cost credit customers are more likely to be 
vulnerable, have low financial resilience and poor credit histories. They often hold multiple 
credit products and have to juggle repayments, sometimes having to decide which priority 
debts to pay when they dont have enough for all.  
I also thought it was worth noting the specific comments regarding guarantor loan customers 
included in the Narrative report, carried out by PWC, which accompanied the FCAs review 
of relending by high-cost lenders in August 20201. The section on guarantor loans said.  
Of the 6 products within the scope of this research, guarantor loans sat near the top in 
terms of their impact on borrower wellbeing. Two fifths (40%) of borrowers regretted their 
decision to reborrow, and of those, 44% claimed their additional borrowing has had an 
overall negative impact on their wellbeing. In the qualitative interviews it emerged that 
guarantor loan customers often had a wide portfolio of credit products, and as a result, the 
stress and anxiety experienced by reborrowers came from their general financial situation, 
rather than their guarantor loan specifically  although guarantor loans certainly contributed. 
Additionally, the involvement of a guarantor had the potential to increase the pressure felt by 
borrowers to repay, as they did not want to default and the guarantor has to bear the 
consequences. 
The qualitative research showed that borrowers often had complex borrowing histories. 
Many had got into difficulty in the past with mainstream and/or high cost credit. This led to 
them needing a guarantor in order to secure credit due to their own poor credit scores. There 
was also evidence of the total cost of borrowers loans snowballing after multiple top ups. 
Consideration of the total cost of the loan tended to be secondary to the perceived need for 
the top up and the affordability of monthly repayments. Given the large sums of money 
involved with this type of credit, there was a high potential for harm in this area due to the 
long term burden of debt and increasing monthly repayments. When speaking to the 
guarantors, in the main they appeared to be well informed about and involved in the top up 
process  although this was not always the case. All the guarantors we spoke to were close 
to the borrower; typically a parent but also other relatives, friends and in one case a partner. 
The guarantors all wanted to help their loved one out and had high levels of trust in them. 
However, borrowers did not always appear to have disclosed the full extent of their financial 
situation, or their use of other credit products, to their guarantor.
Amigo operated in a market where borrowers found it difficult to access mainstream credit. 
So I thought that there was a clear risk that some of its customers had, or had had, 
underlying financial stresses. As the FCA had said, compared to users of mainstream credit, 
1 P47 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/research/relending-high-cost-credit-market-narrative-
report.pdfhigh-cost credit borrowers were likely to have lower financial resilience and so the impact of 
unaffordable debt is likely to be felt more keenly. 
I accepted that Amigo may have been prepared to accept the credit risk of operating in this 
market, given the high total interest charges and because the involvement of a guarantor 
(usually a close friend or family member of the borrower) created a social pressure on the 
borrower to make their Amigo repayments (even if this meant prioritising them over other 
outgoings). And in the event that the borrower nevertheless failed to pay, Amigo could call 
upon the guarantor to step in and cover the repayments. 
Indeed Amigo suggested wed overlooked the significance of the guarantor. But I wasnt 
looking at whether the credit risk it accepted was reasonable. What I was considering is 
whether it did enough to be able to reasonably conclude Miss E would be able to affordably 
and sustainably make the repayments on loan 2 as and when they fell due. 
I couldnt see how Amigo could reasonably have concluded that Miss E would be able to 
make her repayments on time, without difficulty, without first getting some kind of 
understanding as to the reasons behind her increasing debt burden. This was especially as 
this increase had taken place during a period when her income had substantially increased 
and from a point where its previous calculations had indicated a disposable income of £675. 
Amigo said Miss Es debt wasnt increasing rapidly or uncontrollably. However, this was 
despite it also saying that Miss Es commitments at the time of loan 1 appeared substantial 
bearing in mind her income, and her credit card debt had more than doubled and her debts 
on loans, at least, also doubled in 15 months.   
In my view, these indicators suggest that there was a realistic possibility by this point in time 
that Miss Es debt was started to get out of control. I wasnt saying that the credit search 
showed this was indisputable. But I did think that bearing in mind all the circumstances, it 
would have been reasonable and proportionate for Amigo to have taken further steps to 
understand whether this was the case before advancing even more credit.
I also thought it was important to bear this in mind in the context that even though Miss E 
was over 40% of the way through the loan duration of loan 1 at this point and her 
repayments by this point totalled £1,707.58, the capital amount owing on loan 1 had only 
reduced by 22% or around £562. That meant that more than £1,900 of the £3,750.00 
advanced for loan 2 was retained by Amigo to settle the outstanding balance on loan 1.
Instead of being repaid within 21 months (had loan 1 continued and run to term), this
balance was wrapped into a new loan and wouldnt be repaid for a further 48 months  a
total of 63 months from when Miss E first took the balance. And I note that 63 months
exceeds the maximum term that Amigo offers for a single loan.
I went on to explain that a less detailed affordability assessment, without the need for 
significant verification, was broadly speaking more likely to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid was relatively small, the 
consumers financial situation was stable and they would be indebted for a relatively short 
period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here  where the information provided raised some 
questions, a customers debt burden was significantly increasing, they were refinancing an 
existing debt with Amigo over an extended period of time, and they were being expected to 
maintain a higher monthly payment for a longer period of time, I thought it was far more likely 
that any affordability assessment would need to be more detailed and contain a more 
significant degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and proportionate. Indeed, at this time, CONC defined lending as being sustainable when the repayments can 
be made by the borrower without undue difficulties. In particular, this meant that 
the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. I thought that this 
means a lender needs to do more than simply assess whether the loan repayments were 
technically affordable in the sense of a strict calculation. 
I was also concerned that Amigos expenditure calculation didnt properly take into account 
Miss Es existing revolving credit commitments as it attributed amounts to only cover the 
monthly minimum payments for some and recorded that third parties would pay others. 
There was a suggestion, the third party paying the debt was Miss Es daughter. This was 
despite these debts being in Miss Es sole name, Miss E having confirmed that her daughter 
was a student, and there was a need for them to be paid within a reasonable period of time.
Taking all of this into account, I thought that Amigo needed to get a better understanding of 
Miss Es financial position in order to properly assess whether shed be able to sustainably 
make the loan payments she was committing to. This was especially as any objective 
scrutiny of Miss Es credit file  on its own and irrespective of anything else - demonstrated 
that there was a realistic possibility Miss Es financial position was worsening. 
So as well as asking Miss E about the details of her income and expenditure, I thought that 
Amigo needed to take steps to verify what it was being told by Miss E. I said it could have 
done this by asking for information such as bank statements, copies of bills, or even proof of    
Miss Es income. But what it needed to do was get an understanding of the reason behind 
Miss Es debts increasing despite her income increasing. 
Id seen what Amigo had said about the cost of obtaining such information and the potential
impact that this would have on the profitability of providing its loans. I accepted that carrying
out more detailed and stringent checks were likely to be more costly than a less detailed
assessment. But if Amigo was suggesting that its desire to make profits at a particular
level should mitigate its obligations to appropriately assess the affordability of its loans, I
strongly disagreed. And there wasnt anything within CONC which refers to those as
being relevant factors when determining the extent and scope of any affordability
assessment and what is likely to be proportionate.
Equally I also pointed out that as the rules, regulations and good industry practice require 
checks to be proportionate to the circumstances, I couldnt see how a one size fits all 
approach will automatically complied with this requirement every time, without any 
adaptation to the circumstances.   
As there was no evidence that Amigo did ask Miss E to provide documentary evidence to 
support the income and expenditure declarations made, I intended to find that it didnt 
complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing loan 2.
Loans 3 and 4
As much of what I said about loan 2 applied equally to loans 3 and 4, I didnt propose to go 
into as much detail on why I thought the checks carried out for these loans were neither 
reasonable nor proportionate.
As I understood it, similar affordability checks were carried out before these loans were 
provided. The main difference was that an alternative income check was used. Miss Es 
salary was verified against an income matrix and the rest was put through reconciliation. 
Amigo hadnt explained what reconciliation was in any of its correspondence, what the 
parameters of its income matrix were or what it specifically showed about Miss Es circumstances in this case. So I encourage it to clarify this in its response to my provisional 
decision. I also thought it important to note that Miss E was recorded as having an increased 
monthly income of approaching £1,800.00 for these loans.
At the time of loan three, the outstanding balances on Miss Es revolving credit accounts had 
now grown to £11,496.00, which was a further substantial increase in the four months since 
the application for loan 2. I could see that Miss Es outstanding loan balances had increased 
to approaching £17,000.00  although it was possible Miss E owed even more as the 
balance marked as cleared at the time of loan 2 was simply refinanced into another loan 
which hadnt as yet appeared on Miss Es credit file at that time. 
In any event, what I was most concerned about was that the income and expenditure 
assessment recorded that the payments to four of Miss Es credit commitments werent 
factored in to her expenditure. This was because family members were recorded as making 
these payments. Again, much like at the time of loans 1 and 2, there was a suggestion that 
these debts were for family members even though they were in Miss Es name and the 
number of debts attributed to third parties contradicted what was said at the time of loan 2. I 
added that a fifth commitment was marked down as third party pays, although a minimum 
payment towards this balance was included in Miss Es expenditure.
What was recorded for loan 4 didnt make for much better reading either. The outstanding 
balances on Miss Es revolving credit now totalled £13,681.00. An increase of over 
£2,000.00 in the seven months since the previous application. This included a substantial 
increase on the balance on the mail order account even though it was said during the calls 
for loans 2 and 3 that this balance would have been repaid by this stage.
Miss Es outstanding balances on her loans did reduce in this period. But the £4,000.00 
advance for loan 4 took her back up to almost £17,000.00 again. This time four of Miss Es 
commitments werent included in her expenditure as they were attributed as being paid by a 
third party. I also noted that while Amigos response to our investigators assessment 
provided detailed arguments on the expenditure declaration for loan one, it offered no 
specific submissions on the expenditure recorded for loans 3 and 4.  
Having considered all of this, it seemed to me that Amigo treated each of Miss Es
applications in isolation with little regard to what had happened previously or how her
circumstances were evolving. It says it used ONS averages to verify Miss Es expenditure
declarations. I had concerns with Amigos course of action here, bearing in mind it also
said greater emphasis should be placed on the nature of the market it served. This was
because ONS data is based on the finances and expenditure of the average consumer. But
Amigo knew, when it lent to Miss E, that it was providing a loan to someone who fell outside
this average portfolio  and arguably it should have had a heightened awareness of this as
she kept returning for further loans.
Certainly by this stage, I didnt think that using ONS data  which was unlikely to reflect the
existing commitments and expenditure of someone in Miss Es circumstances - to explain
the mismatch between her declared expenditure and the increasing indebtedness the credit
file was showing was fair, reasonable and proportionate bearing in mind Miss E
circumstances. 
In my view, this approach failed to take into account Miss E was a repeat borrower and 
assess the plausibility of what was being declared in later applications against what had 
been said previously. I thought that this led to Amigo failing to take into account the
whole picture of the overall lending history, in favour of a narrower focus on the individual
applications, which, in terms of the later applications at least presented a more favourable
picture of a deteriorating position.For example, while it was unclear what role if any, the loan purpose played in any application 
for credit, the purpose of three of Miss Es four loans were recorded as car or bike purchase 
(the fourth was recorded as other). Amigo appeared to have accepted that the funds would 
be used to purchase vehicles, without questioning why someone with Miss Es relatively 
modest means and increasing indebtedness would be looking to purchase three vehicles in 
the space of just over two years. 
I reiterated that, at this point, I wasnt making the argument that these factors in themselves, 
or when taken together, meant that Amigo should have automatically declined these 
applications. My point here was that much like the position at the time of loan 2, the 
circumstances warranted asking Miss E to provide documentary evidence to support the 
declarations she was making. 
In reaching this conclusion, I was mindful of Amigos argument that Miss E may not have 
made accurate declarations. But notwithstanding this, I thought that Amigo appeared to be 
overlooking its obligation (contained in CONC 5.3.7R) not to proceed with an application 
when it ought reasonably to suspect it has been provided with inaccurate information. As 
Amigo proceeded in these circumstances, without requesting further information to address 
the inconsistencies and understand why Miss Es overall indebtedness was increasing, I also 
found that it failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before providing loans 3 
and 4.             
As Id found that Amigo hadnt completed proportionate checks before providing loans 2 to 4, 
I then proceeded to consider whether Miss E lost out as a result of Amigos failings. As 
Amigo couldnt show me that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
providing loans 2 to 4, I couldnt say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I needed to 
decide whether it was more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Amigo 
that Miss E wouldve been unable to sustainably repay these loans. 
Miss E provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied for 
these loans. I accepted different checks might show different things. And just because 
something showed up in the information Miss E now provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve 
shown up in any checks Amigo mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything else 
from Amigo showing what this information would have shown, I considered it perfectly fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what 
Miss Es financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the respective 
times.
As Id already explained, Amigo was required to establish whether Miss E could sustainably 
make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might have been an indication 
that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt automatically follow 
that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make 
their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their repayments if it was on 
notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
I carefully considered the information Miss E provided in light of all of this. 
At the time of loan 2, Miss E appeared to have been in receipt of around £1,400.00 a month. 
Her salary was around £1,250.00 or so (the amount declared at the time of loan 1) and the 
rest was made up of in work benefits. The first thing I said about Miss Es expenditure was that she was making payments to, at least, five, possibly six debt collection agencies. I 
considered that this in itself was indicative of someone who was struggling to manage the 
debt they already had.  
Miss Es contractual expenditure was over £1,000.00. This took into account the payments 
being made to debt collectors but not the payments to one of her credit cards, which wasnt 
in collections, as I was satisfied that she was receiving a contribution for these payments. 
The payments Miss E was making to debt collectors clearly werent enough to sustainably 
repay these debts. And when deductions for food and clothing were made from the £300 or 
so left after Miss Es contractual commitments, she clearly didnt have enough left to be able 
to sustainably make the payments to loan 2. This was especially as I didnt count the 
monthly standing order payments Miss E was making to her parents which looked to be in 
relation to sums she owed them. 
By the time of loan 3, Miss Es income hadnt changed much. But her expenditure had 
increased as a result of the additional commitments she had. Miss E received an influx of 
funds, which I understood was a loan from her employer, to repay loan 2 and a catalogue 
shopping account. But it was clear that this was a one-off payment and Miss Es inability to 
meet her commitments from her income was the catalyst for the application for loan 3 rather 
than any intent to purchase a car or bike. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss E was unable to make the loan 
repayments to loans two and three without suffering undue financial difficulty or having to 
borrow further  either from Amigo, or others. And, in these circumstances, I found that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have alerted Amigo to the 
fact that Miss E would not be able to sustainably make the repayments to loans 2 and 3. 
I didnt recreate individual, proportionate checks for loan 4 because I didnt think that it was 
necessary to do so. I thought this was the case for a number of reasons.
To start with and for the sake of completeness, I thought that it would be helpful for me to 
explain that there was an argument for saying that as loan four was a top-up to loan three 
and I was already intending to find that loan three shouldnt have provided, it ought to follow 
that the complaint about loan four should automatically be upheld. 
After all if matters had played out as they should have done, it wouldnt have been possible 
to top-up loan three as it wouldnt have been provided in the first place. That said, I didnt 
think I need to make such a finding.  
I said this because in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan 
provided to Miss E by Amigo, I also thought it was fair and reasonable to look at the overall 
pattern of lending and what unfolded during the course of Miss Es lending history with 
Amigo. 
I was mindful here that the relevant rules and guidance  as summarised in the earlier part 
of my provisional decision - made it clear that a lender shouldnt continue lending where the 
loans were unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or it was apparent that the customer may 
be experiencing financial difficulties.
And I think that by loan four, Amigo ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that       
Miss Es financial position was such that further loans were simply unsustainable for her. Id 
already set out most of the reasons for this in the section on why I didnt think Amigos 
checks were proportionate. But the factors which lead me to conclude that Amigo ought fairly 
and reasonably to have realised loan four was unsustainable or otherwise harmful were:the increasing amount of Miss Es outstanding debt on revolving credit accounts, 
which the information recorded suggests shed only be making minimum payments 
to. This wouldnt make any substantial inroads to the outstanding balances meaning 
an increasing proportion of her total debts would not be repaid sustainably (i.e. within 
a reasonable period of time);
the balances on Miss Es revolving credit accounts had increased to their highest 
ever amount;
Miss E had a number of debts with debt collection companies, on which she had 
been making token payments for an extended period;
Miss Es combined debt (when this loan was provided) increased to approaching 
£30,000, which was the highest amount she owed;
In my view, all of the above were clear indicators of Miss E being in a difficult (and 
deteriorating) financial position. And bearing in mind Amigos obligation to monitor Miss Es 
repayment record and offer assistance should it appear that she mightve been experiencing 
financial difficulties, I thought that Amigo shouldve offered assistance and/or a product that 
would allow her to sustainably repay what she owed. 
But instead of doing this, Amigo consolidated Miss Es borrowing into a further loan for an 
even larger amount. Indeed Miss E started out with a loan requiring 36 monthly payments of 
around £127 in April 2013. At this time including her prospective Amigo loan, her total 
outstanding debt liabilities was around £11,500. 
By comparison, at the time of loan four, just over two years later, Miss E was required to 
make payments of around £158 for another five years. Miss Es total outstanding debt 
liability was also approaching £27,000. So, bearing in mind Miss Es income at that moment, 
I considered this a rapid and unsustainable growth.  
I said this while mindful of the fact Amigo itself promoted these loans as a way of
rehabilitating a borrowers credit file. It is what it said in its response to our investigators
assessment, what it said on its website at the time it provided these loans and what its new
Chief Executive Officer said in an investor relations video in October 2020. In my view, with
this statement, Amigo promoted these loans as a means to a borrower being able to return
to obtaining mainstream credit after demonstrating their ability to keep to repayments and
improving their financial position.
In these circumstances, I found it very hard to see why Amigo provided Miss E with loan 4 
when it ought to have seen that the opposite was happening insofar as Miss Es finances 
were deteriorating and she was ending up with an unsustainable debt burden, rather than 
rehabilitating her credit file. It was clear Miss E was moving further and further away from the 
more controlled credit usage position Amigo says its loans were supposed to move her to. 
So I found that Amigo ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that loan four was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Miss E and unfairly and excessively increased her 
overall indebtedness. 
Finally, I then went on to consider the third of the overarching questions I thought were 
relevant to my determination of Miss Es complaint. Miss E also complained that Amigo 
unfairly hounded to take further loans after her parents settled loan 4 on her behalf in 2017. I looked through the messages Miss E was sent. However, before I commented on those 
messages I wanted to refer to what I heard during the course of the application for loan 2. 
From what I could discern, Miss Es application for loan 2 was prompted by marketing 
messages telling her she was eligible for a top-up loan. The reason for Miss Es first call was 
because she wanted to borrow £1,750.00 but she was only able to apply for £5,000.00
online. The content of the conversation suggested that this was because Amigo had set this
limit and the helpline operative had to manually adjust the minimum amount Miss E could
apply for.
I was concerned about Miss E having to call Amigo in order to reduce the minimum amount 
she was able to borrow. But given Miss E managed to borrow the lesser amount she wanted 
to despite there being an argument to suggest that she was being encouraged to borrow 
more, I didnt think this was an example of Amigo acting unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Miss E in some other way.
I then looked at the communications Miss E had referred to. I looked at the records of the 
contact that she had with Amigo during the period loan 4 was active. I can see that Miss E 
was sent marketing text messages on a monthly basis offering her the opportunity of 
applying for a loan of up to £10,000.00 from April 2017.
I was particularly concerned about the April 2017 text given that it was sent immediately after
Miss Es account was settled by her mother. Its also concerning to see that this was only a
few weeks after Miss E had advised Amigo that shed be unable to make her February 2017
repayment.
In any event, the text message told Miss E what she should do in the event she wished to 
opt out of marketing communications. I also saw that Amigo sent no further messages, once 
Miss E got in contact to say she didnt want to be sent them in November 2017.
So while I had concerns about the nature and timing of Amigos messages especially in
relation to Miss E having to call up and manually request permission to apply for a lower
amount and how such tactics might encourage vulnerable consumers in general to borrow
more than they wanted or needed, I was mindful that Miss E didnt borrow more. As this was 
the case, I wasnt persuaded Miss E suffered any loss. And I found that Amigo hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss E in some other way.
All of this led to me issuing a provisional decision which found that:
Amigo did complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss E to satisfy itself 
that she was able to repay loan 1;
 
Amigo didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss E to satisfy itself 
that she was able to repay loans 2 to 4; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have individually 
shown Miss E was unable to sustainably make the repayments for loans two and 
three;
Amigo ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that loan four was unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful for Miss E and unfairly and excessively increased her overall 
indebtedness; 
Amigo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss E in some other way.These findings left me intending to issue a final decision concluding that Amigo didnt act 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss E when providing her with loans 2 to 4.
I then went on to consider whether Miss E did suffer adverse consequences as a result of 
Amigo unfairly giving her loans 2 to 4. And I thought that she did for two key reasons.
Firstly, these loans had the effect of unfairly increasing Miss Es indebtedness to Amigo by 
allowing her to take expensive credit for significant sums. These loans werent cheap and as 
a result the monthly payments took a chunk out of Miss Es income at a time where she was 
already struggling to make ends meet. 
Secondly, the number of loans in the period of time (even those successfully repaid by 
refinancing) is likely to have had implications for Miss Es ability to access mainstream credit. 
The greater the presence of these loans on Miss Es credit file the less likely Miss E was 
able to rehabilitate her finances (in line with Amigos marketing and stated purpose of this 
type of lending) and regain access to mainstream credit.
In my view, Amigo giving Miss E this many loans (which it shouldnt have done) in this period 
of time when she was already overstretched financially, unfairly placed her in a position 
where she was trapped into taking expensive high-cost loans over an extended period as 
no-one else would lend to her. 
I thought that, in these circumstances, Miss E had little choice other than to keep turning to 
Amigo (and other similar high-cost providers) for further loans, because other cheaper 
mainstream providers werent prepared to lend to her bearing in mind everything that had 
gone on previously.
So overall and having carefully thought about everything provided and whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, I intended to issue a final decision which 
found that Miss E lost out because Amigo unfairly gave her loans 2 to 4, which it ought to 
have realised were unsustainable and harmful for her. And this means I intended to find that 
Amigo needed to put things right.
I finally set out a method of putting things right for Miss E, which I found addressed Amigos 
failings and Miss Es resulting loss.
Amigos response to my provisional decision
Despite being provided with further copies of my provisional decision and being chased to do 
so, Amigo didnt provide anything further for me to consider, or ask for any additional time to 
do so.
Miss Es response to my provisional decision   
Miss E responded to confirm that she accepted my provisional decision and proposed 
settlement. And she made no further points for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and relevant codes of practice. Ive set out all of 
this in the appendix to this decision.
Taking into account the relevant rules, law and publications, I remain of the view that the 
three overarching questions that I set out in my provisional decision are what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These 
are:
Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss E would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss E wouldve been able to 
do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Amigo ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Es 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided further loans?
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I carefully considered these questions and set out, in some detail, my findings in relation to 
them in my provisional decision of 8 December 2020. Given this is the case, and Ive not 
been provided with anything further at all to consider, Ive not been persuaded to depart from 
the provisional findings I reached on 8 December 2020.
As this is the case I find that:
Amigo did complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss E to satisfy itself 
that she was able to repay loan 1;
 
Amigo didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss E to satisfy itself 
that she was able to repay loans 2 to 4; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have individually 
shown Miss E was unable to sustainably make the repayments for loans two and 
three;
Amigo ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that loan four was unsustainable 
or otherwise harmful for Miss E and unfairly and excessively increased her overall 
indebtedness; 
Amigo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss E in some other way.
These findings leave me concluding that Amigo didnt act fairly and reasonably towards   
Miss E when providing her with loans 2 to 4. As Ive already explained why Miss E lost out 
because Amigo didnt act fairly and reasonably towards her, I think it should put things right 
for Miss E. And Ill now set out what I think Amigo should do.   
Fair compensation  what Amigo needs to do to put things right for Miss E
Ive carefully thought about what Amigo should do to put things right in this case. Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Amigo 
putting Miss E in the position shed now be in if she hadnt been given these loans.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Miss E 
was given the loans in question and she used the funds  albeit some of them went towards 
repaying earlier loans. So, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. 
And its simply not possible to put Miss E back in the position she would be in if she hadnt 
been given these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Amigo to put things right in the 
following way.
Interest and charges on loans 2 to 4
As Ive explained throughout this decision, Amigo lending to Miss E, in these circumstances, 
left her in a position where her debt was increasing. And Miss E kept having to find 
additional funds to pay the monthly payments on her Amigo loans. Most obviously, its the 
interest and on these loans that led to Miss Es indebtedness increasing and her financial 
position worsening. So to start with I think that Amigo should refund any interest and charges 
that Miss E paid on loans 2 to 4.
Miss E also lost the use of the funds she used to pay the interest and charges, I now think 
that Amigo needs to refund to her. As Miss E lost the use of these funds, I think she should 
be compensated for this. We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where a 
consumer hasnt had the use of funds because its actions resulted in something having gone 
wrong. Bearing in mind my conclusions in the paragraph above, I see no reason to depart 
from our usual approach here and I think awarding 8% per year simple interest, on the 
interest and charges paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
So Amigo should pay Miss E 8% per year simple interest on the interest and charges she 
paid on loans 2 to 4 from the date those charges were paid to the date it settles Miss Es 
complaint.
Miss Es credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result of the interest and charges on the loans they shouldnt have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer is being refunded and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what they owe.
So to start with I think that Amigo should remove any adverse information recorded on    
Miss Es credit file as a result of the interest and charges on loans 2 and 3, as Miss E wasnt 
in a position to sustainably repay these loans and she shouldnt have had to pay those 
interest and charges.
But Im upholding Miss Es complaint about loan 4 because I think the overall pattern of 
lending increased Miss Es indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or harmful in some 
other way. I explained that there were two main adverse consequences of Amigo having 
given Miss E this loan, in these circumstances. Firstly, it caused her indebtedness to increase unsustainably as a result of the interest and charges. And Ive already explained 
how Miss E should be compensated for this.
I also explained that this loan having been provided in these circumstances is likely to have 
had implications for Miss Es ability to access mainstream credit. The greater the number of 
these loans on Miss Es credit file the less likely Miss E was able to rehabilitate her finances 
and regain access to mainstream credit. And I think my direction in relation to Miss Es credit 
file needs to reflect this.
So while I recognise the importance of preserving an accurate picture of Miss Es credit 
history and creditworthiness so that a lender can make an informed decision on whether 
lend to her, I think that the mere presence of loan 4 on Miss Es credit file, in itself, 
constitutes adverse information. And I think that these loans appearing on Miss Es credit file 
is likely to continue unfairly adversely affecting Miss E going forwards. 
In these circumstances, I think that it is fair, reasonable and proportionate for Amigo to 
remove all reference to loan 4 from Miss Es credit file, as this loan being present in these 
circumstances, in itself, constitutes adverse information.
All of this means that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of     
Miss Es complaint for Amigo to put things right by:
refunding all the interest and charges Miss E paid as a result of having been provided 
with loans 2 to 4;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest payments from the date 
they were paid by Miss E to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Es credit file as a result of loans 
2 and 3;
removing all reference to loan 4 from Miss Es credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo to take off tax from this interest. Amigo must give 
Miss E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision of 8 December 2020, Im 
upholding Miss Es complaint. Amigo Loans Ltd should pay Miss E compensation as set out 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman