DRN-2813637
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the premiums Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) is 
charging for his income protection insurance.
What happened
Mr L began a quote for an income protection policy with L&G in September 2019. This was 
submitted to L&G in October 2019 and he agreed for it to contact his GP for medical 
information. On receipt of his medical information, L&G wrote out to Mr L offering him a 
slightly different policy to what he applied for. It explained that due to the medical information 
supplied by his GP, it would be applying a mental health exclusion to his policy.
Mr L complained to L&G about this. He explained he didnt suffer from a mental health 
condition and never had. He did have a health condition, but it didnt fit into this category. 
L&G didnt uphold his complaint as it said its decision was based on what his GP had told it. 
Mr L didnt take out the amended policy.
In March 2020, Mr L saw his consultant and she wrote him a letter confirming he didnt suffer 
with a mental health condition. He provided this letter to L&G and in April 2020 took out the 
same policy hed previously applied for. The policy cost him more money than hed been 
quoted in October 2019, despite being for the same cover. Mr L complained to L&G about 
this and asked it to honour the quote hed received in October 2019. L&G didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He was unhappy with how L&G had categorised 
his medical condition and that this had prevented him from taking the cover out originally. He 
complained it wouldnt now honour the original quote, despite the situation being caused by 
an error outside of his control. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr L disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman review, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider there are two key elements to Mr Ls case  how L&G treated his medical 
information and condition. And as a result of this, whether the premium hes paying for his 
cover now is fair.
Ive reviewed the Patient Health report Mr Ls GP completed when Mr L first applied for 
cover. And the follow-up letter the GP sent L&G. In the health report the GP has ticked the 
box to say Mr L has a history of anxiety or depression. And in his letter to L&G in November 
in 2019, the GP says Mr L was treated for anxiety symptoms. I fully accept Mr Ls testimony 
that this information is not an accurate reflection of his medical history or the treatment hes 
received. And this was confirmed by his consultant in March 2020. But until his consultant 
supplied this information, L&G was entitled to base its decision on the medical information it 
held.
The above information is important, as Mr L feels L&G has made incorrect judgements about 
the medical condition he does have; and hes being treated unfairly as a result of this. But I 
havent seen any evidence of discrimination or that L&Gs decisions were based on the 
specific condition Mr L has.
L&G was incorrectly under the impression Mr L suffered from anxiety due to the information 
it was supplied with. I understand Mr L wanted it to have extrapolated the information it had 
and asked more questions around this to understand his situation, but I cant say it needed 
to do this. It had been told by Mr Ls GP that hed suffered from and received treatment for a 
mental health condition, so it applied the relevant exclusions to his policy, as it would for 
others in this situation. I havent seen anything to suggest L&G made a judgement to treat 
Mr Ls condition as if it was a mental health condition or to incorrectly categorise it and his 
symptoms. Instead it simply seems that it accepted his GPs word. And while I accept Mr L 
disputed this at the time, as he didnt provide counter medical evidence until around four 
months later, it didnt change its stance.
This then takes me to April 2020 and the new policy that was set up for Mr L with a higher 
premium than he was offered in October 2019. Ive considered whether this is fair, or if L&G 
should honour the original premium it quoted Mr L.
I dont consider L&G treated Mr Ls first application incorrectly, based on the medical 
evidence it held at that time. Mr L then contacted L&G again about cover in March 2020. His 
application was processed in April 2020, so seven months after hed started the first 
application. And four months after his GP had provided information to L&G about his health. 
So at this time Mr L was seven months older and the country was in a pandemic.
I accept that Mr Ls original quote for a policy, without any extra exclusions, was what he 
shouldve been able to take out in October 2019. However, as Ive set out above, I dont 
consider L&G was at fault for this policy not being offered and instead for a different one, 
with exclusions, being put forward to him. It appropriately gathered health information and 
acted on this. Mr L has said he contacted his consultant in December 2019, to get accurate 
information, but he didnt supply paperwork from her until March 2020. I appreciate he 
advised L&G it could get this information itself, but I dont agree it shouldve done this. Mr L 
wanted cover without the exclusions, so it was for him supply the medical information to 
support this. L&Gs letters also made it clear how long its quotes were valid for, but Mr L 
didnt get the medical evidence within this timescales. Its not clear why he couldnt get his 
consultant to supply this information before his appointment, as its based on his medical file, 
but in any event, this isnt something I can hold L&G responsible for.
I can see the policy Mr L took out in April 2020 was the same as the one offered in October 
2019, but by this time the price for cover was more. This was due to increased costs and a 
change in risk factors, including Mr Ls age and the pandemic. These risk factors apply to 
everyone taking out this cover and influence everyones premiums. I cant say these are 
unfair or that L&G shouldnt have applied these. And considering the time Mr L waited to 
reapply, I cant fairly say L&G should honour the October 2019 quote. Too much time had 
passed and too many things had changed. I also cant see that Mr L was actively engaging 
with L&G or continuously trying to take out this same policy between L&Gs counteroffer and 
April 2020. I appreciate he did originally raise a complaint with L&G, but then he stopped 
engaging with it and this policy for a time.
Mr L has said hes not at fault for what happened, and I agree, but neither is L&G. It fairly 
acted on the medical information it was given. And then it was a number of months until Mr L 
supplied new information. While he shouldnt have been in this situation, L&G didnt cause it. 
And it wasnt for L&G to prove Mr Ls case for him, he needed to do that. I dont consider L&G should honour a quote from six months before when it didnt make an error. So my 
decision is the new quote Mr L received in April 2020 is the fair and correct price for his 
cover.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman