DRN-3474379
The complaint
Mr T complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) wont refund him for a transaction he 
says he didnt agree to. He would like the transaction refunded.
What happened
Mr T has an Aqua credit card. He noticed a charge of his card of £34.99 to a software 
merchant for a subscription that he didnt recognise. He regularly makes use of this software 
merchant but made sure to cancel the subscription before the end of the free trial period.
He contacted Aqua to dispute the charge. They raised a chargeback, but the merchant 
provided evidence that Mr Ts details were used to open the account, although the email 
address was different. Aqua gave this information to Mr T and asked for a reason to continue 
the chargeback claim. Mr T provided information about his genuine account with the 
software merchant, which didnt include this subscription.
After consideration Aqua decided not to pursue the chargeback any further. They felt it was 
most likely Mr T had signed up for the subscription himself. They declined to refund the 
transaction. Mr T disagreed, and also asked Aqua to consider a claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He also wasnt satisfied with the service provided to him 
through his claim. But this didnt change Aquas position.
Mr T referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators took a look at what 
happened, and they felt the complaint should be upheld. They thought it was more likely 
than not the transactions werent carried out by Mr T. They asked Aqua to refund the 
transaction and pay Mr T £100 compensation for their handling of the claim.
Aqua disagreed, saying that the details of account other than the email address matched 
Mr T. They felt the transaction wasnt typical of how a fraudster would spend money and felt 
this was unlikely. They felt it was more likely carried out by Mr T or someone on his behalf.
Because no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. I reviewed 
the evidence and came to a different conclusion to the investigator. I issued my provisional 
decision which said:
The key consideration for me is whether I think its likely Mr T gave consent for the 
merchant to debit his account, or whether it was likely done by someone else  and by 
extension whether its fair for Aqua to hold him liable for the transaction.
Having done so I dont think its likely the transaction was authorised by an unknown third
party. I say this for the following reasons:
Its unclear how Mr Ts Aqua card details could have been stolen  but he has used 
the card for online purchases in the past, so I accept its possible the details could 
have been stolen in a way he wouldnt be aware of. But then it would be unusual for 
a fraudster, in possession of Mr Ts card details, to only use them to set up a single 
subscription. It would be more likely that they would try to make maximum use of the 
card as quickly as possible, but thats not what happened here.
Mr T has made use of this merchants services before, but has said he makes use of 
the free trial period and cancels before it becomes chargeable. So, it would be a very 
unlikely coincidence that an unknown third party would set up a subscription with the 
same merchant. Particularly as it then doesnt appear to have been used, so they 
took no benefit from it.
The contact details of the subscription are the same as Mr Ts, with the exception of 
the email address. However the email address is very similar to Mr Ts, with some 
letters not entered in to the domain name. I cant discount the possibility this is the 
result of a typing error.
Ive considered whether the merchant themselves may have carried out the 
transaction using card details Mr T may have previously given them. But this seems 
unlikely to me, given that the merchant appears to be offering legitimate services.
Overall then Im not satisfied it is most likely that the transaction was authorised by an 
unknown third party. Its more likely than not the subscription was set up by Mr T using his 
card details. On that basis the transaction would be considered authorised, and Aqua 
wouldnt be responsible for refunding Mr T.
As the information received from the merchant seemed to contradict what Mr T was telling 
them, and in the absence of any compelling evidence otherwise I dont think it was 
unreasonable to stop pursuing the chargeback claim.
The disputed amount also doesnt reach the minimum cash price of £100 set out in Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for any claim against Aqua. And in any case claims 
along these lines have to allege that the contract was misrepresented to the buyer, or the 
merchant in some way breached the terms of the contract  which doesnt apply in this case 
as Mr T is alleging he never entered in to the contract in the first place. So, I dont think Aqua 
have done anything wrong by not considering this claim.
In terms of the interest charged, as this transaction was authorised, I dont see its 
unreasonable for Aqua to request the money be paid to them. And its also not unreasonable 
for them to apply interest to this amount, as per the terms of the account.
While I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed, I dont consider Aqua to have done anything
substantially wrong here. Because of this, Im not intending on asking them to do anything 
further.
I invited further comments. Aqua confirmed they had nothing to add.
Mr T disagreed with the decision to say, in summary:
The provisional decision did not appear to be founded on evidence, or a logical 
counter argument to the investigators outcome. It inferred he was a liar or forgetful.
He would be making a submission to court based on contractual law, for Aqua failing 
to conduct a chargeback investigation in to whether there was a valid contract 
between him and the merchant.
That the decision was dismissive of the possibility the transaction was carried out by 
the merchant. The timing of entering into a pandemic lockdown would be a good time 
to defraud customers.
The way Aqua had handled the chargeback process didnt prove he had entered into 
a contract with the merchant. Instead Aqua had asked for information that the 
contract had been cancelled, which he wasnt in a position to provide.
After considering these points, Im now in a position to issue my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still satisfied that its more likely than not the subscription was set up by 
Mr T, and as such Aqua are reasonable in treating the transaction as authorised.
It is unclear how Mr Ts card details could have been compromised  but the nature of online 
fraud is such that you often will never know for certain. However, it still would seem highly 
unusual that a fraudster, in possession of valid card details, would only use them to set up a 
single subscription of relative low value compared to the balance available.
Im also mindful that Mr T has made use of the merchants services before, so it would be 
quite a coincidence that a fraudster would set up a payment to the same merchant. It would 
also be unusual that they then make no attempt to take any benefit from it  and were 
unlikely to ever be able to do so considering the email address doesnt appear to be valid. 
That the email address is invalid also explains why it wouldnt show up on Mr Ts regular 
account with the merchant. This strongly suggests to me its unlikely the subscription was set 
up by some unknown third party.
Ive given consideration to what Mr T has said about the merchant potentially setting up the 
subscription themselves. But I still find such a scenario to be unlikely. As I mentioned in the 
provisional decision the merchant appears to be engaged in legitimate activity. Ive not seen 
any credible evidence of them using Mr Ts stored card details fraudulently. It would seem 
counterproductive to attempt to defraud potential customers in this way, whether there is a 
pandemic lockdown or not. Particularly as Mr T has said he had made use of their services. 
Im not persuaded this is a likely explanation.
The relevant regulations in regard to payments, and the card schemes chargeback rules, 
dont require Aqua to determine whether Mr T has a valid or enforceable contract with the 
merchant. Their role as a payment service provider is when there is an allegation of an 
unauthorised transaction on an account, to investigate this. And if the decide the transaction 
was authorised, they should be able to demonstrate why they feel this is the case. 
Having reviewed the evidence available, from the technical evidence Aqua supplied, the 
evidence available from the merchant, and what Mr T has told us, I think they came to a 
reasonable conclusion. I consider it more likely than not the subscription was set up by Mr T, 
so the transaction would be authorised and its fair for Aqua to hold him liable for it, along 
with any associated interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman