DRN-2919045
The complaint
Miss M complains that Motability Operations Limited treated her unfairly after she had a 
collision.
What happened
Miss M leased a car through Motability. In October 2018 she had an accident. Motability 
contacted the manufacturer of the car, who said that following the accident, the car wouldnt 
be eligible for repair under warranty. So Motability told Miss M shed need to make a claim to 
repair the damage under her insurance policy.
Miss M explained that the car had already been making an unusual noise before the 
accident. She said she believed the damage caused by the accident to have been relatively 
minor, and she thought that a problem with the drive shafts had already been present before 
the accident, and resulted from a manufacturing defect. Shed already claimed on her motor 
insurance a few months previously, and she was keen to avoid another claim on her record if 
possible. So she asked Motability whether the claim would be removed from her record if the 
damage was, in fact, found to be covered by the warranty. 
I can see from Motabilitys notes that it contacted the insurer before responding to Miss M on 
this point. The insurer said that if it could recover the full cost of the repair from the dealer, it 
would be removed from Miss Ms record. But it explained that this was unlikely, given that 
Miss M had had an accident. 
Motability relayed what the insurer had said to Miss M. According to Motabilitys notes, 
Miss M then said shed check to see whether she could pay for the repairs herself. Motability 
offered to pay the excess if she claimed.
Theres a note on Motabilitys system of a conversation a couple of days later, when 
Motability phoned Miss M to follow up on the previous call. Miss M told Motability shed 
decided to claim on the insurance for the repairs. And Motability agreed to pay the excess 
under the policy.
The insurer paid Miss Ms claim. As a result, the claim is on Miss Ms insurance record. 
Miss M says she made it very clear that she didnt want to make a claim. She says she felt 
pushed into making the claim, but felt confident that it would become clear that it was, in fact, 
a warranty issue and it would be resolved.
One of our investigators considered Miss Ms complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. 
In summary, she said that Motability had told Miss M correctly that her options were either to 
pay for the repairs herself or to make an insurance claim. She said it relayed the information 
from the repairer and the manufacturer that they believed the damage to have been caused 
by the collision, and not a manufacturing defect. It also correctly told Miss M what the insurer 
had about it being unlikely that the insurance claim would only be removed from her record, 
and why. Since what Motability had told Miss M was in line with what it had been told by the 
other parties, she didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Miss M disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt my role to decide whether the damage to the drive shaft was, in fact, caused by a 
manufacturing defect. Instead, I need to decide whether Motability treated Miss M fairly and 
reasonably. 
The decision as to whether the replacement of the drive shaft would be covered by the 
warranty was not Motabilitys to make. That decision ultimately lay with the manufacturer. 
And after Miss M had the accident, the manufacturer said it wasnt willing to replace the drive 
shaft under warranty.
I acknowledge that Miss M says Motability knew shed reported an unusual noise before the 
accident. And she says it knew that neither the manufacturer nor the repairer had carried out 
a full inspection of the car. Instead, the manufacturer refused to inspect it fully until all 
damage arising from the accident had been repaired. Miss M believes that it was 
inappropriate, in the circumstances, of Motability to tell her she should make an insurance 
claim for the repairs. She thinks Motability should have suggested an independent full 
inspection of the vehicle, or insisted that the manufacturer investigate properly. 
Miss M considers that if it the car had been properly inspected, it would have been clear that 
the drive shafts had deteriorated to the same degree on both sides of the car  not just the 
side affected by the accident. So the manufacturer would have realised the problem was 
caused by a manufacturing defect, and would have agreed to repair the off-side drive shaft 
under warranty. Whats more, the full extent of manufacturing defects would have been 
discovered and she wouldnt have narrowly avoided a serious collision soon after.
But I dont find that Motability acted unreasonably. It wasnt in a position to insist that the 
manufacturer carry out further investigations. It liaised with the insurer about Miss Ms 
question as to whether the claim would be removed from her insurance record if the damage 
to the drive shaft turned out to be due to a manufacturing issue after all. It explained that the 
repairer and the manufacturer both considered the damage to have been caused by the 
accident. 
Miss M says Motability didnt tell her it was unlikely that the manufacturer would examine the 
other side of the car after the accident damage had been repaired. But Im satisfied that it 
told her clearly that the insurer had said it was unlikely that the manufacturer would agree to 
the claim being repaired under warranty, and consequently unlikely that the claim would be 
removed from her record. 
It was for the insurer, not Motability, to deal with the claim and to decide whether it should be 
upheld and what investigations and evidence it needed to make that decision. Ive 
considered a separate complaint by Miss M against the insurer. But I dont find that Motility 
was unreasonable in not suggesting further inspection of the vehicle. Nor do I consider, as 
Miss M has suggested, that Motability gave her a choice between paying for the repairs 
herself or making a false insurance claim.  Motability told Miss M correctly that she could either pay for the repairs herself or claim on 
the insurance. Once Miss M decided to claim on the insurance, it was for the insurance 
company to deal with the claim. 
I realise that Miss M is dissatisfied that the repair to the off-side drive shaft wasnt dealt with 
under the warranty. And I dont doubt that she felt confident that the manufacturer would 
eventually accept that the problems with the drive shafts were caused by a manufacturing 
defect, and would agree to repair the drive shafts under warranty. But I dont consider that 
Motability can be held responsible for this confidence on Miss Ms part. It passed on what 
the insurer had said about it being unlikely that the car would be repaired under warranty. 
And Miss M made the decision to go ahead with the claim rather than paying for the repairs 
herself knowing this.
Ultimately, I think that Miss Ms dissatisfaction is essentially with the manufacturers decision 
not to deal with the damage to the off-side drive shaft under warranty. Motability cant be 
held responsible for this decision. And I dont find that Motability did anything wrong in the 
way it handled the situation. So I cant fairly require it to compensate Miss M, or to take any 
further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman