DRN-1632174
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc closed his current account after assuring him it 
wouldnt do so. 
What happened
On 9 October 2019 Santander wrote to Mr P to inform him that it had noticed he was using 
his 123 current account for business transactions. It told him this was contrary to the account 
terms and conditions and that if he continued to use his account in this manner it would be 
closed.
Mr P telephoned Santander on 14 October 2019 in response to that letter. During that 
telephone call he explained the nature of the transactions Santander had queried. And he 
said he was told his account wouldnt be closed. He was said he was also informed 
Santander would contact him if further information was required.
On 12 December 2019 Mr P discovered that his account had been closed. He hadnt heard 
from Santander since his discussion with it on 14 October 2019. And he said, when his 
account was closed, he was left without access to his money while waiting for his account 
balance to be sent to him. He also said he experienced problems because his current 
account was linked to other accounts and payees. 
Mr P complained to Santander about what happened and, on 13 December 2019, it issued 
its final response to his complaint. Santander told Mr P it didnt think it had made an error as 
it was entitled to close his account in line with the terms and conditions of his account. It also 
said no guarantee had been given to Mr P that his account wouldnt be closed. So, it didnt 
think it had made an error and it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr P was dissatisfied with Santanders response to his complaint so he referred it to our 
service. Our investigator assessed the evidence Mr P and Santander provided. And 
Santander accepted our investigators view that it had given Mr P an indication that his 
account wouldnt be closed during his discussion on 14 October 2019. It agreed Mr P had 
received incorrect information and poor service. And it offered £100 to recognise this. But 
our investigator didnt feel that amount adequately reflected the impact of Santanders error. 
Instead, they recommended it pay £250 compensation to Mr P to resolve his complaint. 
Santander agreed to do so. However, Mr P rejected this sum and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr P made a number of detailed points in response to our investigators view about 
his complaint. Ive carefully read and considered what hes said. But, Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant to deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here. So, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr P experienced here. I can appreciate he was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. And I realise it must have been 
extremely frustrating and worrying to have discovered his account had been closed.   
The terms and conditions that apply to this account make clear that the account must not be 
used for business purposes. As Santander was concerned that Mr P was using his account 
for business transactions Im satisfied it had reason to inform him that it was minded to close 
his account.
In addition to outlining the circumstances in which Santander is able to close a customers 
account the account terms set out the procedure for doing so. They state in clear intelligible 
language:
You or we may close your account at any time by giving the other notice without giving any 
reason. We may also close or suspend your current account if it has been inactive for some 
time. If we decide to do this well give you at least two months notice (30 days in the case of 
Non-payment Accounts.
I can see Santander wrote to Mr P on 9 October 2019 giving him notice of its intention to 
close his account if he continued to use his account for business transactions. And 
Santander has provided our service with evidence that it closed Mr Ps account on 12 
December 2019. So, Im satisfied Santander acted in line with the account terms by giving 
appropriate notice here.
The terms of Mr Ps account dont require Santander to give the reason why it wants to close 
a customers account. But I can see it explained its reasons in detail to Mr P in its 
correspondence of 9 October 2019. Santander gave him an opportunity to comply with the 
terms and condition in order to prevent the intended account closure. And it explained that, if 
he wished to continue to use his account in the same way, hed need to open a business 
current account. 
In providing this information to Mr P I think Santander acted fairly and reasonably. It also 
enclosed a copy of the account terms, which was helpful. Im not persuaded it made an error 
in telling Mr P it was intending to close his account at this stage based on its concerns.
However, where an error was made was during Santanders telephone discussion with Mr P 
on 14 October 2019. Having carefully listened to that call its clear Mr P is confused and 
shocked by the content of the correspondence he received. Hes asked to clarify a number 
of transactions Santander is concerned about. And he explains them in detail. He refutes the 
suggestion that hes using his account for business purposes.
It appears to me that Santander gives Mr P an assurance during this call that it wouldnt 
close his account without speaking with him further. I say this because the adviser informs 
him that hes happy with the information provided and he says Mr P can continue to use his 
account. He also says Mr P would be contacted before any further action would be taken by 
Santander. But this didnt happen and I think that was unfair.
Putting things right
Santander has agreed to pay Mr P the £250 compensation recommended by our 
investigator to resolve this complaint. But its clear Mr P doesnt think this sum adequately 
reflects his inconvenience and experience. So, Ive assessed whether the level of compensation our investigator recommended appropriately recognises the error Santander 
made here.
As our investigator has already explained our service isnt here to punish businesses. When 
deciding what potential compensation to award our service must take two things into 
account: financial loss as a result of any business error and non-financial loss, including 
inconvenience and upset. 
Mr P told our investigator he lost out financially as a result of what happened. But I havent 
seen any evidence of that. And, in those circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of me 
to tell Santander to pay financial loss or compensation for something that theres no 
evidence of.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions have had 
on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation 
would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Having thought very carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr P, Im satisfied that the 
£250 compensation recommended by our investigator is a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its clear to me that Mr Ps experience here went beyond mere irritation. He was caused 
distress and inconvenience by what happened. He had to spend time contacting Santander 
to understand what had led to his account being closed given the assurances hed received 
during his telephone call of 14 October 2019. He also had to open a replacement account 
elsewhere. This would have caused difficulties in Mr P making and receiving payments. And 
hed have had to wait for Santander to send him the balance of his closed account. 
I can understand how inconvenient all of this was for Mr P. And its only right that Santander 
recognises this. However, Im satisfied that £250 is a fair amount of compensation thats 
proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr P wouldve been caused here. Its in 
line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have told Santander to pay.
So, while Mr P may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation our investigator 
recommended fairly recognises the impact Santanders error had in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint. So I wont be directing it to pay any more
I understand Mr P will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve Mr Ps dispute with Santander informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant 
help Mr P any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont hold this complaint.  Santander UK Plc should pay Mr P £250 
to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman