DRN-3373523
The complaint
Mr H complains about the handling of his claim and delays he experienced from Assurant 
General Insurance Limited (Assurant) following a claim under his gadget insurance. 
What happened
Mr H had a gadget insurance policy with Assurant. He made a claim when his device 
became faulty. Assurant requested that he provide proof of purchase which he did. But it 
wasnt until around three weeks later, and after Mr H had chased for an update, that 
Assurant asked for the serial number of the device. And a further week later before the 
excess payment was requested and the claim accepted. 
Mr H made further calls to Assurant to confirm that it had received the laptop and to change 
the return address on file, which Assurant confirmed that it had done. Around three weeks 
after Assurant had collected the device, it returned it to the wrong address and Mr H found 
the device still faulty, so reported this and raised a complaint to Assurant. 
Mr H sent his device back to Assurant who said that there were no faults with the device and 
returned it to Mr H. At this point Mr H took his device to an independent service provider who 
provided a report detailing the issues with the device. Mr H sent this report to Assurant, who 
agreed to either replace the laptop or provide a cash alternative of £1,299. Assurant 
attempted to contact Mr H, but this wasnt successful. 
In its final response, it accepted that there had been delays during the claims process and 
that it had sent the device to the wrong address. It apologised for these errors and offered 
compensation of £150 for the inconvenience caused. It also confirmed that a cash 
settlement of £1,299 would be paid for Mr H to purchase a new device. 
Mr H was given his referral rights and as he remained unhappy, referred a complaint to this 
service. After Mr H had brought his complaint to our service, Assurant contacted him and 
offered him £250 compensation, to resolve his complaint. Mr H declined this, and this offer 
was withdrawn by Assurant.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that the errors that Assurant had made, namely the delays in the claims process and 
the returning the device to the wrong address, shouldnt have been made. But in deciding if 
Assurant had been unreasonable or unfair in its treatment of Mr H, he couldnt agree that it 
had. His view was that the £150 compensation paid, sufficiently recognised those errors and 
it was correct that Assurant made the cash settlement of £1,299 for the device. So, there 
was nothing further that he could ask it to do.
Assurant accepted the view, Mr H did not. He said that he was hoping that the benefit of the 
doubt wouldnt be given to Assurant, which was a company who very much didnt need it. 
So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr H, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
The main issues of this complaint are whether Assurant were fair in coming to the decision it 
did and whether the compensation of £150 offered, was fair.  When considering this 
complaint, I have looked at the timeline, the terms and conditions of the policy and 
information provided by Mr H. 
Having considered the timeline and on the admission from Assurant, Im satisfied that there 
were delays during the claims process. These delays related to the claims assessment, 
delay in returning the device back to Mr H after Assurant had found no faults with the device. 
In addition, Assurant accepted that it had sent the device to the wrong address. For those 
service failings, it apologised and offered compensation of £150 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
I understand that Mr H said that he lost earnings being without a working device for so long 
which was inconvenient. But I cant see enough evidence of Mr H having suffered financially 
that can support Assurant having to pay him for the loss of earnings. 
In any event, the policy doesnt give him cover for loss of earnings  that is, its not 
something hes entitled to claim for under his contract of insurance. And I must also say any 
claim is going to involve some inconvenience including, almost inevitably, some time for the 
claim to be processed. 
I accept that there were service failings and delays. But I think that Mr H had an obligation to 
reduce the possible impact by making appropriate plans. So, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct Assurant to pay Mr H for the loss of his earnings.  And I think the 
compensation paid by Assurant of £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H explained that on return of his device he found that it still was faulty and reported this to 
Assurant. Assurant examined the device but found no fault with it. Assurant asked Mr H to 
get an independent diagnostic report which he did. Following on from this I can see that 
Assurant acted upon the report in a timely manner. By arranging the return of the device and 
paying a cash settlement of £1,299. 
Whilst I understand Mr Hs feeling of frustration, Assurant acted promptly, by paying Mr H a 
cash settlement for the device, which he could then purchase himself. Having reviewed the 
policy terms and conditions it says that in event of a breakdown of a device, Assurant will 
either repair or replace the device (if it cant repair it). Im satisfied that Assurant did just that, 
by offering and paying Mr H a cash settlement. So, I cant agree that Assurant was 
unreasonable or treated Mr H unfairly by its offer.  
Whilst I appreciate that this is not the outcome that Mr H wouldve liked, I do think that 
Assurant were fair and reasonable in its payment of compensation of £150 and in the cash 
settlement of £1,299. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited has already paid £150 compensation to settle the 
complaint and paid a cash settlement of £1,299, which I think is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman