DRN-3688651
The complaint
O, a limited company, complains China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (China) have unfairly 
declined their claim for stolen items and voided the commercial combined policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
O took out a motor insurance policy with brokers, T, in 2016.
This policy was cancelled in March 2016 due to the direct debit not being paid.
T instructed their solicitors to issue a County Court Judgement (CCJ) for the unpaid 
policy amount.
O contacted T in October 2019 to take out this commercial combined policy; they 
were asked to pay £100 for the outstanding debt for the previous policy and the rest 
of the debt would be spread over the insurance premium for 2019/2020.
When O went to make a claim for stolen items in May 2021, China said that O had 
failed to disclose the CCJ when the 2019 policy was taken out. Had it known about 
the CCJ, China says it wouldnt have offered the policy.
China voided the policy and didnt return any premiums O had paid; it also didnt 
cover the claim. O says they never knew about the CCJ and so couldnt have 
disclosed it when taking out the policy in 2019.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, saying that T were acting as a broker with 
delegated authority from China in 2019. Therefore, China are responsible for the sale 
and the brokers actions, and she felt T ought to have been aware of the outstanding 
debt and CCJ. She was also satisfied that O hadnt been made aware of the CCJ 
and so couldnt have provided this information when asked at the sale of the policy.
Both O and China accepted our investigators view of the complaint to uphold it, and 
that China should continue with Os claim for the stolen items by reinstating the policy 
and removing the voidance. However, since China accepted these findings on 7 July 
2022, O hasnt been contacted by it at all and is no further forward with the claim.
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final 
decision, so that O can take further action to enforce this decision if needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law Ive considered for this complaint is The Insurance Act 2015. As O was a 
commercial policyholder, the onus was on them when taking the policy out to volunteer 
information and make a fair presentation of the risk to China in providing this policy.
China are responsible for the brokers actions at the time of the sale of the 2019 policy. At 
the time of the sale T knew there was an outstanding debt from a previous policy O had with 
it. Im satisfied of this because T asked O to pay £100 and spread the remaining debt over 
the rest of the premium for the new policy.
Im not satisfied that its been shown by China that O was made aware of the CCJ, either at 
the time of the policy sale in 2019 or by contacting them at the right address previously. So, I 
consider it reasonable that O wasnt aware of a CCJ being registered and therefore couldnt 
provide this information in 2019.
Overall I consider that T, and therefore China, ought to have been aware of a CCJ against 
O, either via its own records or because it was asking O to pay towards a debt from three 
years before, and it ought to have known that this wouldve progressed to a potential CCJ. 
So, I think more couldve been done by China to explore this.
I consider there to have been a failure by T to provide accurate information which has 
allowed this policy to be set up. China are responsible for Ts actions and therefore ought to 
have known that a CCJ had been registered. Therefore, as the failings of T are Chinas 
responsibility, Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
I instruct China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to do the following:
Remove the voidance from any internal or external database
Reinstate the policy
Consider Os claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 
2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman