DRN-3577091
The complaint
Miss D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by increasing her 
overdraft limit and acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to her account when she 
was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss D had an overdraft with Lloyds from 2006. Miss D arranged a repayment loan with 
Lloyds regarding this in November 2017. Miss D complained to Lloyds in February 2022 that 
her overdraft and charges applied to it were unaffordable. Lloyds said we couldnt investigate 
the overdraft prior to six years of Miss D making her complaint or within three years of 
becoming aware that she had cause to complain. So it would only look at her overdraft from 
February 2016.
Lloyds says all overdraft increase applications from this point were made online by Miss D 
and were properly assessed against its lending criteria. And as Miss D didnt make it aware 
of any financial difficulties when applying for overdraft increases it didnt uphold her 
complaint.  
Miss D was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator 
looked at all of this and thought we could only look at Miss Ds overdraft from February 2016. 
They thought that Lloyds ought to have known Miss D was in financial difficulty by August 
2016 as she hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for a significant period of time and 
that it should refund all interest and charges from this point onwards.
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators findings and agreed to:
1) Rework Miss Ds current account overdraft balance so all interest fees and charges
applied to it from August 2016 onwards are removed. This means after taking into 
consideration previous refunds a sum of £1,009.62.
2) This refund will be treated as overpayments and returned to Miss D along with 8% simple 
interest, minus tax, from the date they were made until the date of settlement.
3) As Lloyds isnt aware of any adverse information on Miss Ds credit file in respect of this 
account it will take no action.
Miss D didnt wish to accept this offer  she says she wasnt aware she could make a 
complaint regarding the affordability of her overdraft until recently and wants her overdraft 
looked at from 2009 and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Why I can only look at Miss Ds overdraft from February 2016
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
And in this case Lloyds hasnt agreed. Miss Ds complaint was made in February 2022 in 
relation to her overdraft dating back to 2009. Six years before she raised her complaint is 
February 2016. So under the six year rule we can only look at increases in her overdraft limit 
and the charges applied  the events complained about  from February 2016. So I need to 
think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when Miss D should 
reasonably have been aware she had cause to complain. 
I can see that Miss D contacted Lloyds in November 2017 about suffering financial 
difficulties. Following this contact, Miss D arranged a loan to repay her overdraft. So I think 
Miss D ought to have known enough when she made contact with Lloyds whether her 
overdraft was affordable for her and that Lloyds did something wrong by increasing her limit 
over the years. I think Miss D should reasonably have been aware she had reason to 
complain about the affordability of her overdraft at this time.
Three years from this is November 2020. As this doesnt provide with Miss D with a longer 
period of time to complain about the affordability of her overdraft and the charges applied it  
means we can only look at the affordability of Miss Ds overdraft from February 2016 (6 
years prior to Miss D raising her complaint). 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. Miss D has said that she didnt 
know she could complain until recently but Im afraid not knowing you could complain isnt 
considered an exceptional circumstance. So because Miss D didnt refer her complaint 
earlier my decision is that Im unable to look into Miss Ds complaint about her overdraft 
being unaffordable and the charges applied to it before February 2016. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have. And we may award modest compensation that we think is fair and 
reasonable.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here that although Miss D arranged to pay back her 
overdraft with a loan in 2017 when Miss D got in touch with it about her financial difficulties I 
dont think this was soon enough. I say this because even having a cursory look at Miss Ds bank statements I can see she hadnt been able to maintain or see a credit balance for an 
extended period of time and think that Lloyds shouldve stepped in by August 2016. 
Lloyds has agreed to this  and Miss D will be refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
caused by her overdraft from August 2016. So Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss D to 
decide whether she wishes to accept Lloydss offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss D is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman