DRN-2372962
The complaint
Mr O complains that the amount he has been asked to repay for an account he held with 
Lloyds Bank plc has been overstated.
What happened
Mr O had a credit card account with Lloyds. He says he has a statement which shows the 
amount outstanding was £1804.77 but hes been asked to pay £2232.75. He says he didnt 
know what the bill was for and he had to contact Lloyds to find out what product it related to. 
It told him it had sold the debt to a third party. Ill refer to this third party as the purchaser.
Mr O says hes also received court documents which require him to pay the higher amount.
Mr O thinks the amount hes been asked to pay has been overstated. He says that Lloyds 
has accepted it mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) to him and it sent him a 
cheque for £932.67 by way of compensation on 12 July 2019. He says that this 
compensation belongs to him. It was paid to him because, he says, Lloyds fraudulently 
added PPI premiums to his credit card balance. And, he says the amount of the missold PPI 
should be subtracted from the credit card balance hes been asked to pay.
He complained to Lloyds about this. Lloyds investigated his complaint. It said it had sold the 
credit card balance owed on Mr Os account on 25 June 2015 to the purchaser. It said that 
the purchaser now owned the debt and so Lloyds wasnt able to apply the PPI compensation 
cheque to the debt. It said Mr O could send the cheque to the purchaser and ask it to apply it 
to the debt. Lloyds also said it couldnt make a payment arrangement with Mr O because it 
no longer owned the debt. So, it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr O referred his complaint to our service. He told us he wanted to make clear that he hadnt 
said the PPI refund should be used to reduce the outstanding balance on his debt. And, he 
reiterated that the amount of the debt which Lloyds had sold to the purchaser was incorrect.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said that the debt had been sold on 25 June 
2015. She thought it may have increased after that date because of court fees. But she said 
that Lloyds couldnt agree a repayment plan because it no longer owned the debt. She said 
this was also the reason why Lloyds couldnt apply the PPI refund cheque against the debt. 
In these circumstances she said Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong and had fairly dealt with 
the complaint.
Mr O didnt agree. He said that the amount of the debt which had been sold to the purchaser 
was overstated because it included an amount for missold PPI. He also said that the amount 
which hed received for the missold PPI belonged to him.
Because Mr O didnt agree the complaint was referred to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says the amount of the debt hes been asked to repay on the credit card has 
been overstated. He says that because the PPI was missold, the amount of the PPI 
refund should be deducted from the debt.
I can see that Mr O was sent a letter from Lloyds dated 12 July 2019. That letter sets 
out how the PPI refund was calculated. The compensation awarded includes a full 
refund of the total amount of all PPI premiums that had been charged to Mr Os credit 
card account. According to the letter this amount was £601.98. In addition, Mr O 
received an amount for compensatory interest. Income tax at the basic rate was 
deducted from the compensatory interest. So, he received £932.67 in total. The letter 
says that as a result Mr O was now in the position he wouldve been in if no PPI had 
been purchased.
In these circumstances, Lloyds has already paid back to Mr O, all of the money which 
it had taken from his account for PPI premiums.
Having thought about what Mr O has said, I think he believes that Lloyds should also 
have to deduct the PPI premiums from the outstanding credit card balance. But, if it 
had to do that, Mr O would get the equivalent of a second refund for the missold PPI. 
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect Lloyds to do that.
If Mr O wants to use the PPI refund hes received from Lloyds to pay off part of his 
credit card balance, then he can do so. But, as Lloyds has told him, he must pay it to 
the purchaser because Lloyds no longer owns the debt.
Ive also looked at the various court documents which Mr O has provided to us. I can 
see that Mr O received a letter dated 25 April 2019 from solicitors acting for the 
purchaser. The letter refers to an amount of £2122.75 due under a County Court 
Judgment dated 17 December 2018. It says that because this amount wasnt paid, 
and no suitable resolution had been reached the matter was referred back to the 
court and an Attachment of Earnings Order was sought.
A Suspended Attachment of Earnings Order dated 30 July 2019 was made by the 
court. This document states
At your request the court has made a suspended attachment of earnings 
order.
It refers to an amount payable under the judgment of £2232.75 together with interest. 
It also states:
if you (either the judgment creditor or the judgment debtor) object to the 
terms contained in the order, you must write to the court with your reasons. 
You have 16 days from the date of the postmark to do this. A hearing will be 
arranged and both parties will be told when to come to court.
I can see that our investigator thought the original debt may have increased from 
£1804.77 to £2232.75 because of court fees. I havent seen any information about 
how the judgment amount was calculated. But, if Mr O wanted further explanation for 
this or if he thought the amount of the debt had been overstated in any way, he had 
the right to object to the terms of the court order that had been made. The court order 
sets this out.The court order also said that if Mr O needed more information he should contact the 
judgment creditor (the purchaser). Its not for me or our service to comment further 
about a matter which has been dealt with in a court judgment.
So, having considered everything here, it is not my intention to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint 
about Lloyds Bank plc
Mr O contacted our service after he received the provisional decision. He asked for 
clarifications about what had been said in the provisional decision. Those clarifications were 
provided to him. And he was given additional time to make any further comments. He hasnt 
provided any further comments.
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has been provided to me since I issued my provisional decision.
So, having considered everything here, I have not changed my view as set out in the 
provisional decision. And, for the reasons set out there, I dont require Lloyds to take any 
action to resolve this dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman