DRN-2352285
The complaint
Mr L complains that the loan he had from Bamboo Limited was unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr L took out a fixed sum loan with Bamboo on 15 May 2017. He borrowed £4,000 and was
due to repay £194.36 monthly for 60 months.
Mr L says that he was stuck in a serious cycle of lending when he applied for the Bamboo
loan and was borrowing from multiple short-term lenders to make the repayments. He says
Bamboo should have seen he had a poor credit record and the situation has had a huge
effect on his mental state. Mr L adds that he is now facing financial hardship as a result of
the irresponsible lending.
Bamboo says it asked Mr L for information about his circumstances, including his income
and expenditure. It says it also used third party data and information from Mr Ls credit file to
assess affordability. Bamboo says it verified Mr Ls income and that he confirmed the loan
was for debt consolidation. He said hed settle any outstanding short-term loans within two
months. Bamboo adds that all its checks showed Mr L was eligible for the loan without
further checks and that the repayments were affordable. It says Mr L made the first eight
repayments on time before reporting a temporary payment issue due to an unexpected bill.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said that she was
satisfied Bamboo had carried out proportionate checks but considered his bank statements
showed the lending was unsustainable. Our adjudicator recommended that Bamboo should
refund any payments Mr L made above the principal (plus 8% statutory interest) or agree a
suitable repayment plan for any remaining principal balance once all payments had been
applied to it. She added that it should also ensure any associated negative information is
removed from Mr Ls credit file.
Bamboo responded to say, in summary, that:
Based on the adjudicators calculations, Mr L still had disposable income of £350 
after the repayment;
Mr L had not opened any other credit accounts in the previous six months and had 
stated the loan purpose was debt consolidation;
It confirmed that two of Mr Ls credit accounts were settled after the Bamboo loan;
The data it used for Mr Ls expenses was an acceptable method and it also asked for 
a payslip and bank statements;
Mr Ls debt to net income ratio was below 50% and its checks were proportionate.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr L and to Bamboo on 29 October 2020. I summarise my 
findings here:
I was satisfied Bamboos income check was proportionate and that it was reasonable 
to use the figures in Mr Ls bank statement to calculate his credit commitments;
I didnt consider using statistical data to estimate his expenditure was sufficient to 
carry out a reasonable creditworthiness assessment because:
oThe loan required significant monthly repayments for five years;
oThe lender is in the sub-prime market;
oMr L said the loan was for debt consolidation and Bamboo knew from his 
credit file that his debt was significantly higher than the loan;
oBamboo also knew from Mr Ls credit file that he was up to his limit on all his 
credit cards, and his overdraft;
oMr L had two defaults on his credit file, although these dated from 2011;
I found that the statistical date was unlikely to be reasonably representative of Mr Ls 
situation;
The level of disposable income Bamboo calculated did not seem likely given the 
financial circumstances represented in Mr Ls credit file.
I couldnt agree that Bamboo carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Ls loan application so I had a look at Mr Ls bank statement, in the 
month prior to the loan, to see what it showed:
oMr Ls monthly income, at £2,539, was slightly lower than the figure hed 
declared, but I acknowledge that was taken into account by Bamboo;
oThere were five monthly loan repayments totalling over £880;
oMr Ls other regular payments, including direct debits and standing orders 
totalled £1,284;
oThere were food and travel purchases of around £360 in the month;
oMr L took out a £300 short-term loan on 12 May 2017;
oThere is evidence that Mr L was also borrowing money from friends and 
family members;
oMr L was only within his £1,500 overdraft limit for about a week in the time 
leading up to the loan, meaning he was also incurring account fees.
I calculated Mr Ls regular outgoings were roughly equal to his income, leaving 
nothing for additional loan repayments.
I was satisfied that Mr Ls bank statement showed he was already struggling to 
manage his money and that even if some of his outstanding debt was repaid with the 
loan, his monthly commitments still meant the repayments were likely to be 
unsustainable for five years.
In summary, taking all the available evidence into account, I wasnt satisfied Bamboo made 
a fair lending decision. I found further lending was unaffordable to Mr L and Bamboo was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
Mr L did not provide any further information.
Bamboo responded, in summary, to say:1. The new credit report shows evidence that Mr L did indeed use the proceeds of the 
Bamboo loan to consolidate some of their existing debt, which would have further 
reduced the impact of the Bamboo loan repayment in terms of the consumers overall 
debt servicing costs;
oBamboo says at no point did it consider that the loan was a full consolidation 
loan or that this would have been appropriate given the varying interest rates. 
It says a partial consolidation can still significantly reduce monthly outgoings;
2. The loan repayments represented only 7.5% of the customers net income and was 
fixed so assuming income would increase with inflation this % reduces each year;
3. It is because of the historic defaults that Mr L finds himself having to look to non-
prime lenders and to produce bank statements and payslips to obtain a loan;
4. It would appear that the conflict in the view of this complaint between Bamboo and 
the Ombudsman is in regard to the interpretation of Mr Ls use of discretionary 
expenditure. Bamboo considers that there should be an expectation on a consumer 
to adjust their spending accordingly to ensure they can meet a new commitment.
oThe bank statements for Mr L show a lot of discretionary expenditure; 
5. In regard to direct debits to utilities, Mr L lived in a flat share, so it is reasonable to 
have assumed he would have received payments from his flat mates in contribution 
towards these bills not loans from family members as suggested;
6. The loan itself has been well paid for the past 3 years and there is no obvious 
detriment to Mr L. A recent credit search shows that Mr L has maintained his other 
credit well and his overall indebtedness has increased by only 5% per annum.
In summary, Bamboo believed the decision to lend was a considered one. It felt it gathered a 
significant amount of information from credit reference agencies and from Mr L to enable a 
carefully considered decision to lend. This included bank statements and a payslip as well as 
asking additional questions. It says its checks were proportionate, and it does not believe the 
loan was predictably unaffordable which has proven to be the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will address each of Bamboos points in turn:
1. I can see Mr L repaid his short-term loan and reduced the balance on another loan, 
but this did not significantly reduce his monthly outgoings. Indeed it seems his 
monthly repayment on the reduced balance came down by around £140, but this is 
less than the monthly repayment on the Bamboo loan;
2. I acknowledge that the repayment represents around 7.5% of Mr Ls income, but this 
takes no account of his other committed expenditure. In this respect I still find £194 
per month for 60 months to be a significant amount;
3. I accept Mr Ls credit history is the reason for the sub-prime lending and the need to 
supply additional information. But I consider Bamboo should have seen from this 
additional information that Mr Ls regular expenditure made further lending 
unaffordable;
4. My analysis of Mr Ls finances shows almost £2,200 is committed each month to 
expenditure such as loans, credit cards, his rent, council tax, utilities, insurance, phone costs and the gym. This is before food and travel is taken into account. I cant 
agree that much of the spend is discretionary;
5. Whilst I accept Bamboos explanation of payments to and from personal accounts, I 
can see regular monthly payments to two personal accounts and five other personal 
payments that were made shortly after receiving the Bamboo loan. Two of these are 
to accounts sharing the same surname and one is described as a loan.
6. Although the Bamboo loan has been well paid for three years, I cant agree there is 
no obvious detriment to Mr L. Indeed, his credit file at the end of November 2019 
shows Mr L took out more than 20 further loans following the Bamboo loan, the 
majority of which were high cost and short-term. He has also been late with some 
credit card payments and has agreed a payment arrangement with one of his existing 
loan providers. 
In summary, whist I have addressed Bamboos additional points, it has not provided any new 
information and, therefore, I find no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bamboo Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr L received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr L made should be deducted from this capital amount;
oIf this results in Mr L having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr L;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding the loan, 
up to this point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman