DRN-4050861
The complaint
Mr T complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (FOL) have failed to explain why the 
interest he was earning on his Peer-to-Peer (P2P) lending account reduced. He is also 
unhappy with the way his request to withdraw his funds has been handled  and says that 
the terms and conditions are unacceptable.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr T opened his P2P account with FOL. In total he invested approximately 
£26,500 into his account. He says initially he was earning interest of around 12.2% on 
average.
 
Around May 2020, he says FOL changed the data on its website and also the amount of 
interest he received reduced to around 4%. Due to the reduced available data, he found it 
difficult to establish the cause of the reduction in interest.
From June 2020, Mr T attempted to withdraw all of the funds from his account, but nothing 
was repaid. FOL had closed its secondary market at this time, and it hadnt reopened to 
allow Mr Ts loan parts to be bought back or by other investors.  He said due to the terms 
and conditions, if a withdrawal request is made, the customer stops receiving interest on that 
investment. So, he was unhappy at losing out on receiving interest because of FOLs failure 
to process his withdrawal in a timely manner.
Throughout 2020, Mr T continued to request a statement, so he could understand how his 
interest returns were calculated. He was also frustrated that his investment hadnt been 
returned to him despite his withdrawal request. But eventually after not receiving a 
satisfactory explanation he made a complaint. When he didnt receive a response from FOL, 
he referred his complaint to this service. 
In June 2021, FOL responded to this service and said it had now repaid all of Mr Ts 
invested funds. It acknowledged there was a delay in processing the withdrawal and offered 
Mr T £711.58 to apologise for this. This offer was put to Mr T, but he rejected it and said he 
was due more interest.
In August 2021, FOL made a further offer to Mr T. This offer was to pay interest of 
£1,514.72, this value was calculated by applying 8% on the difference between the
date Mr T requested the withdrawal and when it was actually processed. FOL highlighted 
that its terms and conditions say You will become ineligible to earn interest after making the
withdrawal request. The withdrawal process may take some time to complete. 
Mr T didnt accept this offer. He reiterated his complaint points as:
He has never received a full statement and so cannot tell how much he is owed.
FOLs interest figures averaged 12% but he was paid less without explanation  and 
the published interest was 12% not 8% as offered.
He has concerns about the fairness of the term that says FOL can refuse to pay 
interest whilst refusing to process a withdrawal. 
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023. This is what I said:  
Mr T has made significant submissions about how his account has been managed by FOL. 
Having reviewed all of the correspondence between the parties and that provided to this 
service  Im satisfied the crux of his concerns can are covered by the following two issues:
-Whether he has received the correct interest based on the investment he made.
-Whether FOL have treated him unfairly after he made a withdrawal request  by not 
paying him interest due while waiting for payment.
I will take each issue in turn.
Level of returns paid on account
The investment subject to this complaint is Mr Ts crowdfunding account held on FOLs P2P 
lending platform. It is an automated account where loan parts are acquired on behalf of Mr T 
based on a risk criterion which determine a rate of interest achievable  put simply the 
higher the interest the greater the risk. When Mr T opened his account, he selected a band 
between 5% and 15%, he then increased this to 9.5% - 15% and then again to 12%-15%. 
Mr T has questioned the amount of return that he has received on his investment. He says 
FOLs website showed that his account was earning an average return of 12.2% but the 
monthly interest he received didnt equate to this level of return  and the amount he 
received increased and decreased without explanation. 
FOL says it doesnt agree that Mr T was promised that the return on his investment was 
12%. It says it doesnt calculate the interest rate per month because it may fluctuate month 
to month but instead calculates the investor total return. It says the investor total return is 
compared to the interest rate band agreed by the investor but wont necessarily match in 
value as it is not guaranteed. It says there are various factors that can impact the return 
achieved  including whether there are any defaults or loans which are repaid early, so not 
all of expected interest is received. It also says returns depend whether there are periods 
when available funds are not lent continuously  if funds are available but not lent then 
interest wont be generated during that period. It says the interest rate chosen will determine 
the maximum borrower estimated default rate an investor will be lending to. But there is a 
variance from the selected rate when an investor takes into account the potential defaults, 
provision fund contribution and assuming funds are continuously lent out over one year.
FOL have provided details of around 17 loans held on Mr Ts account that defaulted. It also 
says it found that many of the loans that Mr T was allocated were repaid early. It has 
provided details of around 20 loans where the actual paid date is before the payment due 
date  indicating that the loans were repaid early. 
FOL say the returns received werent guaranteed and that its website provided warnings that 
the actual return may be higher or lower and capital is at risk. I also havent seen that Mr T 
was told the target rate was a guaranteed amount. But this doesnt appear to be in dispute, 
rather Mr T maintains that he was given misleading information after he invested about the 
rate of return. He says the point is not about his expectations but published actual earnings 
that were not fulfilled. 
Ive reviewed the available evidence to decide whether there is evidence that Mr T has not 
been paid the correct return. I havent been able to establish where the 12.2% return figure 
that Mr T says he saw on FOL website came from. There is a dispute between the parties 
whether this was information that was given. Mr T has been clear he viewed this on FOL website. FOL says this isnt accurate and provided a spreadsheet of the loans Mr Ts funds 
were invested in to show the returns he has made. In this situation I need to make a decision 
on the balance on probabilities to help me decide whether Mr T has been paid the correct 
return. FOL has provided detailed information about Mr Ts loan portfolio. Ive been given the 
following information:
-The amount invested/deposited, and the amount withdrawn during the period the 
account was funded - 14 June 2019 (first deposit) to 29 June 2021 (last withdrawal).
-Details of all the loans parts (nearly 400) that were allocated to Mr Ts account, the 
applicable interest rates and amount allocated.
-Total amount earnt in interest during that period  including a breakdown month on 
month on how much interest was paid to the loan portfolio.
-Details of the loans that were repaid early and those that defaulted.
-A breakdown of total returns, giving a comparison between the returns including and 
excluding the withdrawal delays. This indicates returns from Mr Ts account up to his 
withdrawal requests at 11% and when taking out the withdrawal delays the returns 
were reduced to 6%. 
Mr T doesnt think this information is sufficient to confirm he has been paid the correct 
returns. He believes a more detailed transaction report is required to fully reconcile the 
account earnings. We have asked FOL if it can provide a further breakdown of the 
transactions on the account, but it has said that it has already sent full account details and 
doesnt have any other information to add.
Based on the information available, I havent been persuaded that Mr T has received an 
inaccurate return on his loan portfolio (up to the point he made his full withdrawal request).
I accept that that the information FOL has provided makes it very difficult to reconcile the 
account in the way Mr T requests. But from the information it has provided, Im satisfied it 
has demonstrated the returns achieve from the loans he was invested in. The interest 
payments are the clearest indicator of the return on his investment. This information has 
been given both as an aggregate and broken-down month on month. FOL has shown the 
amounts earnt on the account and used this to give an overall return based on funds 
deposited.
I have also taken into account that FOL has given reasons (and also shown evidence e.g. 
default and early repayments) for why the target rates havent always been met. This 
provides some reasoning why the returns havent been as high as Mr T was expecting. In 
conclusion, I havent found that Mr T is due the level of return he believes he was entitled to. 
In my view it is more likely the 12.2% return Mr T saw were either incorrectly displayed by 
FOL or misinterpreted somehow. But I dont think this means Mr T has lost out. I say this as 
there isnt evidence that supports this was the level of return that was achieved on his loan 
portfolio.  
Payment of interest after withdrawal requests made
The second key issue relates to whether Mr T has been treated fairly when he made his 
request to withdraw all of his funds from the platform. 
Mr T made several withdrawal requests from June 2020  culminating in him making a 
request for a full withdrawal of funds by October 2020. There were delays and he didnt 
actually receive all of his funds until June 2021. Initially he wasnt paid any interest during 
the period he was waiting for his money to be returned. However, FOL did later offer to pay 
him some interest, with the final offer being to pay 8% interest on funds from the date of request to withdraw until the date of payment. It says this increases the overall return on the 
account from 6% to 10% during the time Mr T invested with FOL. 
FOL have referred to the terms of the account to indicate whether Mr T was entitled to 
interest following his withdrawal request. It has highlighted the following terms as relevant:
15.7. If you submit a withdrawal request, your invested loans will be placed on the 
secondary market for sales to other matching investors and you stop earning further interest. 
The funds will be made available and transferred to your bank account after your invested 
loans are fully sold to other matching investors. 
15.10. We may suspend investment at any time Suspend accepting new Investments, 
secondary market transactions and/or investment withdrawals if we determine that:
   (a) as a result of political, economic, military or monetary events or any circumstances 
outside our responsibility and control, withdrawal of the investments is not reasonably or 
normally practicable without seriously detrimental to the interests of the investors; or
   (b) any reason that such suspension is in the best interest of investors.
FOL say it has made a goodwill offer despite Mr T not being entitled to interest after his 
withdrawal request. It has further highlighted information on its website:
Investment withdraw: At any time, you can withdraw your investments that are not lent out 
and waiting in our lending pool. You can also request to withdraw your investment lent out to 
borrowers. You will become ineligible to earn interest after making the withdrawal request. 
The withdrawal process may take some time to complete. You will start receiving the 
investment back once the lent-out investments are completed, transferred to another lender 
or purchased by the provisional fund. 
I note Mr T rejected the offers and says he has not been treated fairly. He has pointed out 
that FOL closed the secondary market at the time he made his requests to withdraw. He 
says FOL collected interest from the loans in is account but used the terms above to avoid 
paying him interest he was due on his investment while he was waiting for withdrawal. He 
believes the interest earnt would have been greater than the 8% offer FOL subsequently 
made. He feels strongly that the terms are unfair and believes regulatory action is needed to 
rectify the situation.
To be clear, its not for me to decide whether the terms Mr T is unhappy with are unfair  that 
is something only a court can decide. It also isnt our role to take regulatory action against 
FOL. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulates the industry. It's responsible for 
regulating the conduct of businesses and setting rules for them to follow. This service is 
responsible for resolving individual disputes. As a regulated financial business, FOL is under 
an obligation to treat its customers fairly. So I can consider whether Mr T has been treated 
fairly in how the terms of his account have been applied. If I think he hasnt been treated 
fairly, I would seek to remedy that and put him back in the position as close as possible to 
where he would be but for the unfairness.
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint, I do have concerns about the initial 
decision FOL took to not pay interest while Mr T was waiting for his funds to be withdrawn. I 
acknowledge the terms FOL refer to but these need to be taken in the context of what 
happened at the time Mr T made his withdrawal requests. Mr T says FOL told him the impact 
of the global pandemic was the reason for delays in withdrawals and the pausing of the 
secondary market. The P2P market as a whole was impacted by the onset of the pandemic 
and Im aware many platforms had liquidity issues and secondary market pauses at this 
time. So it wasnt just FOL who were having problems in meeting withdrawal requests. So 
there is some justification for FOL not completing withdrawals immediately. But I acknowledge Mr T comments that it isnt fair for FOL to seek to rely on the terms in the 
circumstances where the secondary market was unavailable or depressed to extent that it 
would mean an undetermined period of time (in Mr Ts case months) before a withdrawal 
could be processed. 
I am conscious that FOL have made an offer to pay Mr T interest (at rate of 8%) for the 
period between his withdrawal requests and payment. I understand this hasnt been paid to 
him as Mr T didnt accept the offer. Ive considered in all of the circumstances whether the 
offer made by FOL is fair or whether it needs to do something else.  
As an offer to pay interest has been made, it can be argued that FOL isnt actually seeking to 
rely on the terms to restrict the payment of any interest. I agree in the circumstances that it 
wouldnt be fair to apply a strict interpretation of the terms. In my view, the intention of this 
term isnt to restrict interest payments where abnormal market conditions are impacting the 
timely processing of withdrawals. I think the overriding market conditions are relevant to my 
considerations of whether Mr T has been treated fairly. 
We have asked FOL why it decided to make an offer to pay 8% interest. It says this is the 
rate it always uses as a compensation for the delay in withdrawing even if the terms and 
conditions are in its favour. It considers the value to be fair and it made the offer to prevent 
the process from dragging on even further. This isnt an unreasonable position to take. But I 
do understand Mr Ts point that if the funds remained invested and interest was being earnt 
whilst the withdrawals was pending, it is possible that interest higher than 8% was being 
earnt on funds. 
This service makes awards using a standard interest rate of 8% simple for periods where 
consumers have been deprived of money due to them. But in the circumstances of this 
situation, it doesnt feel correct to use this approach. I say this because where funds 
remained invested, we should be able to establish exactly what return was being made on 
Mr Ts funds. What is unclear is if this would result in an offer greater than has been made. 
FOL has declined to complete this calculation. Where the funds were still invested and 
interest was being paid by borrowers, paying this amount to Mr T seems the logical and 
fairest way of deciding what interest is due to him.  
Therefore, Im minded to tell FOL to calculate whether Mr T would have received a greater 
interest payment by calculating the difference between what his funds earnt whilst waiting to 
be withdrawn compared to the 8% he has been offered. FOL can take into account any 
loans that were repaid during the period (so stopped earning interest) or where interest 
payments were missed and not paid by any other provision, so not actually accrued. If FOL 
is unable to calculate what the returns were after the withdrawals requests, it can use the 
figure of what the funds had earnt prior to the requests (i.e. the 11% in quoted in the 
spreadsheet it sent) as a reasonable basis of how much interest would have been paid.  
Im satisfied this would provide a fair approach in the circumstances. When the calculation is 
complete, FOL should pay Mr T the higher amount. So if the comparison shows that Mr T 
would have received more in interest if he was paid the actual returns on his funds than the 
8% offered, FOL should pay him this amount. It should also add interest at 8% simple per 
year on the amount paid from the date Mr T had his funds returned to the date of settlement.  
FOLs overall handling of Mr Ts queries
Having reviewed the submissions of the parties. I can see that Mr T has raised concerns 
about how FOL dealt with his requests for clarity and information on his account. I have seen 
evidence that he had to raise queries about missing funds, that were later returned. He has 
also spent significant time seeking responses to his queries about what was happening to his funds. He has explained that he felt FOL didnt understand what it is like when someone 
online has your money and leaves you in the dark as to what is happening. He says when 
the missing money was retuned, he didnt receive an explanation for what had happened. 
Having reviewed the emails and other submissions Mr T has supplied in relation to his 
attempts to obtain information from FOL, Im satisfied that he has been caused stress and 
worry by the way he has been dealt with. I can see that he had to send multiple emails and 
chasers to get answers to his queries and has spent a lot of time trying to get answers to 
legitimate questions he had about his account and the performance of his investment. To 
recognise the impact of the way FOL have dealt with the situation, I think it should pay him 
compensation. I propose to tell FOL to pay Mr T £400 for the distress and inconvenience he 
has suffered as a result of way FOL dealt with his queries. 
FOL responded and provided a copy of a calculation to show the interest Mr T would have 
earnt if the actual date his investment was withdrawn was the same date that it stopped 
accumulating interest. It said Mr T would have received a further £440.57 in interest. And it 
also confirmed many of his loans defaulted and stopped paying interest.
Mr T responded and provided further comments and evidence. He has provided a number of 
comments to clarify and show where he disagrees with statements made in the provisional 
decision. He has also provided new arguments for me to consider. In summary, Mr T said: 
-He maintains that FOL provided misleading information on its website about his 
account. He has provided further arguments and extracts from the website to support 
his points.
-He understands a decision as to whether the terms and conditions are fair is 
something that is outside of the remit of the ombudsman, but this is something the 
FCA could decide. This comes from his interpretation of the provisional decision 
meaning if the terms have been implemented unfairly, they must be changed. As the 
terms and conditions are still in place, he feels this issue should be addressed.
-He provided information relating to his employment to support the cost he has 
incurred in dealing with the matter. He has calculated the time he has spent on 
dealing with the complaint matter both with FOL and this service and requested a 
payment of compensation in line with the equivalent earnings from his employment. 
-He has also provided arguments and evidence to claim a loss of investment returns 
caused by FOL. He has given examples of other platforms he invests with and says 
he would have been earning this level of returns had his funds from FOL been made 
available sooner. 
Following the responses, I provided further clarifications to the parties about the proposed 
comparative calculation. I referred to the part of the findings that said, FOL can take into 
account any loans that were repaid during the period (so stopped earning interest). I 
clarified, if there were loans that were repaid, which were subject to an outstanding 
withdrawal request, then FOL should have made these funds available to Mr T immediately 
rather than retained them. If there were funds that were retained by FOL and only repaid 
with the bulk of the withdrawals in 2021, then as part of the comparative calculation FOL 
needs to add 8% simple interest to these funds from the period when they were repaid by 
the borrower to the date it paid the funds to Mr T. This is to reflect the cost of Mr T being 
deprived of money.
Mr T responded to this clarification and provided further evidence to support that he would 
have invested any returned funds in other P2P opportunities if he had received them sooner. 
He said he believes the return he could have received from alternative P2P platforms should 
be used in the calculation. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional evidence and arguments Mr T makes. I also acknowledge and 
note all of the comments which he has provided. Many of these are from the background set 
out in my provisional decision. I note the clarifications he has made about his concerns in 
this section and also the points he makes about where he disagrees with statements that 
were made by FOL and the investigator. As I explained in my provisional findings, the 
purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. I will provide by findings under the same 
headings set out in my provisional findings  and they largely follow the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Level of returns paid on account
Mr T has provided clarifications to the points raised and further highlighted the examples of 
discrepancies hes found with the information he received from FOL. Mr T also clarified how 
he came to the 12.2% figure mentioned and corrected the position that this wasnt a figure 
he had seen but rather a figure he calculated using data provided on FOLs website. 
Having reviewed his submissions again, I appreciate why Mr T has concerns about FOLs 
website and the accuracy of the information he obtained from it. Despite completing a 
detailed investigation, I havent been able to obtain a clear explanation from FOL for the 
discrepancies Mr T raises. So, it does seem most likely that Mr T is correct to question the 
accuracy of data he has highlighted on FOLs website. 
Mr T says misleading information about the number of defaulted loans misrepresented the 
risk to his money. Since the complaint has been with this service FOL has said there were 
loans that defaulted  which is different to the evidence Mr T has presented. While I 
appreciate that Mr T didnt have clear information available to him to evaluate his 
investment, the underlying risk remained the same. I say this because as soon as the funds 
were lent to borrowers, the risk of default and missed payments is the same whether the 
website reports defaults and missed payments or not. But I accept the point it was difficult for 
Mr T to understand whether there were loans in his portfolio that had defaulted until this 
service investigated his complaint. 
Mr T has also provided further clarification to his complaint. He says the main dispute is not 
whether he was paid the correct sum but rather whether he was misled into thinking the sum 
he was going to receive was greater than the correct sum. He has provided examples of 
information that was included on FOLs website with conflicting information and 
discrepancies that he has found. I appreciate that unclear information about the loan 
performance is a factor in deciding whether Mr Ts account has been fairly administered.     
But I still think it is relevant to my decision to make a finding on whether there is evidence he 
has been treated unfairly in the actual returns hes received. I say this because even if I was 
to find misleading information was displayed on the website, I would seek to remedy this by 
looking at whether the actual returns paid were fair - as this dictates whether there has been 
a loss caused.  
I acknowledge Mr Ts points about interest rates and descriptions of actual rates. He says 
the actual rate of interest is determined by the loan contract when money is lent to a 
borrower. And this rate of investment return shouldnt change during the loan term. I also 
acknowledge that he says when he talks about the money he was earning; this was in the 
past tense as the loan contracts were in place and he was earning that money. But my intention in describing the actual return on his account takes into account both the contract 
rate of interest and the performance of the loans (i.e. whether the loans repayments are met, 
and capital was fully returned at the end of the relevant term). If there are loans that dont 
perform as expected, then they wont return the contracted rate. While the contracted 
interest rate is known at the time of investment, the future performance of any given loan is 
unknown at this point. So, this is why I have described Mr Ts actual returns being based on 
performance of the loan portfolio. The return figures quoted by FOL measure returns from 
first deposit to when Mr T had his funds returned to him  unsurprisingly this meant the 
return rate fell steeply because no interest was being paid during the eight months the 
withdrawal was pending.  
Overall, I havent found reason to change my findings on the issues relating to the returns 
achieved on Mr Ts loans before he made his withdrawal request. Even if I accept misleading 
information was given on FOLs website, in order to reach a finding that Mr T had suffered a 
financial loss I need to be satisfied he has been treated unfairly based on returns paid to 
him. I havent found this to be the case. Mr T would like further investigation into the 
discrepancies he has found with the data provided on FOLs website  but I dont think this is 
necessary. I appreciate he will be disappointed by this, but I need to balance the value of 
further investigation and the likelihood of reaching a finding that FOL have caused him a loss 
and need to pay further compensation. Ultimately, we are an informal service that seeks to 
resolve disputes between financial businesses and their customers. My role is not to provide 
a forensic analysis of the data. Im satisfied that our investigation has gathered sufficient 
details on the performance of the loan portfolio in order to reach a decision. Overall, I think 
Mr T has been treated fairly in the returns calculated prior to his withdrawal requests. 
Payment of interest after withdrawal requests made
In the provisional decision I made a finding that FOL hadnt fairly applied the terms of the 
account when it stopped paying Mr T interest after his withdrawal request. Mr T appears to 
have interpreted the finding to mean the FCA is the relevant organisation to decide whether 
FOLs terms are unfair. For clarity, this isnt a finding that I made or intended to make. My 
provisional conclusions were solely in relation to the circumstances surrounding how Mr T 
has been treated by FOL. The purpose of my decision isnt to make any finding on any 
potential unfairness suffered by FOLs wider customer base. My decision is solely in relation 
to the individual complaint by Mr T about how his account has been administered. While I 
appreciate that Mr T would like the wider issue to be considered, this is not something that I 
am able to do as part of my findings on his complaint. 
I note Mr T has contacted the FCA regarding this issue, I cant comment on whether this 
organisation will provide him with the action he requests. But I should reiterate, it was not my 
intention to suggest he should contact the FCA for the wider clarity he seeks on the fairness 
of the terms. In my provisional decision, I said only a court can decide whether the terms of a 
contract are unfair. I made reference to the role of the regulator, and I again reiterate what I 
previously said in that the FCA is responsible for regulating the conduct of businesses and 
setting rules for them to follow. It doesnt usually get involved in individual disputes. 
While I understand Mr Ts desire for a finding relating to the fairness of the terms, Im 
satisfied I dont need to be make this finding as Ive already found reason to uphold the 
complaint on the basis that the terms were not applied fairly in the circumstances 
surrounding Mr Ts withdrawal requests. And as far as Im aware, Mr T no longer has any 
funds invested with FOL, so I wont comment further on the hypothetical situation of him 
investing again despite disagreeing with FOLs terms.  
Mr T has raised further arguments in relation to him suffering a loss of opportunity to invest 
and earn interest in other P2P loans because of the delay in processing his withdrawal request. FOL say the reasons for him not receiving the funds was because it had taken the 
decision to close the secondary market. Mr T has disputed the rational for this. He says the 
reason that supply and demand could not occur was a deliberate act of FOLs making. He 
doesnt accept that the impact of the global pandemic was the cause of the closure of the 
secondary market. He thinks FOL were taking advantage of the position to make profits.
Firstly, I havent seen any evidence to support Mr Ts assumptions that FOL closed the 
secondary market for its own benefit. Secondly, the terms of the account did provide for the 
ability for investors to transfer loan parts to other investors to release invested funds. But the 
investor terms also say that FOL can suspend the secondary market as a result of situations 
which mean withdrawal of the investments is not reasonably or normally practicable without 
serious detriment to the interests of the investors. The fact FOL took this action during the 
height of a global pandemic, doesnt on face value seem unreasonable, and was in line with 
many other P2P platforms around this time. So, I havent found reason to say Mr T should 
have received his funds when he made his initial withdrawal request and therefore lost an 
opportunity to reinvest elsewhere. 
But, as I explained in provisional decision, I remain of the view that it was unfair for FOL to 
stop paying interest while Mr Ts withdrawals was pending. I proposed a comparative 
calculation to establish if Mr T would receive a higher compensation payment if he received 
the interest that was earnt on his loans than the 8% interest FOL offered him. I also clarified 
that if Mr Ts loans which were subject to an outstanding withdrawal request were repaid, 
then FOL should have made these funds available to Mr T immediately rather than retained 
them. So if there were funds that were retained by FOL and only repaid with the bulk of the 
withdrawals in 2021, then as part of the comparative calculation FOL should add 8% simple 
interest to these funds from the period when they were repaid by the borrower to the date it 
paid the funds to Mr T to reflect the cost of being deprived of the money.
     
Mr T has made further arguments to say he would have received a greater return on these 
funds than the 8% I have proposed. He has provided information in relation to other P2P 
platforms he held accounts on. This evidence shows he was investing in other P2P 
opportunities in 2021. Although a lot these transactions were after he had his refund from 
FOL, and I couldnt see significant loan purchases immediately after Mr T received the bulk 
of his funds return at the start of May 2021  suggesting he didnt always invest all available 
funds as soon as they were returned. 
To be clear, Im not saying Mr T wouldnt have invested elsewhere had the funds been 
available sooner. But there is uncertainty around what is most likely to have happened. For 
example, until FOL sets out the calculation its still uncertain whether he had loans that were 
repaid but not released to him, how much was invested in any such loans and the precise 
date they were repaid. Also, there isnt clear evidence of exactly what would have been 
available to invest in at the relevant point. And the inherent risk of P2P lending means even 
if reinvested, the funds could have gone into poor performing loans that resulted in a capital 
loss. This all needs to be considered without the benefit of hindsight and knowing which 
loans performed well and at good rates. The purpose of decision is not to maximise the 
compensation but reach a conclusion that is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.  
All of this means, I think it is fair and reasonable to use an 8% interest rate if there are any 
periods where FOL retained funds that it should have released to Mr T. I appreciate Mr T 
has offered to provide further evidence, but I dont think this is necessary as Im satisfied 
there is sufficient evidence already to reach a finding on this point that is fair and reasonable 
 for the reasons given above. 
FOL has not made further comments or arguments for me to consider. FOL has however, 
provided details of a calculation it completed to show the interest Mr Ts loans earnt after his withdrawals request. I have sought clarification from FOL as the calculation showed a large 
percentage of the loans didnt earn any interest whilst pending withdrawal. But the response 
sent doesnt satisfy me that it followed my proposed calculation. And in any case, Ive 
provided further clarification on additional interest that needs to be added for repaid loans.  
While overall it appears, FOL has agreed to the redress methodology, it does need to set 
this out clearly and in a simple format to show that it is following the direction. It also needs 
to follow the clarification I made regarding any loans that were repaid but the funds werent 
immediately released to Mr T. This is all set out below in the Putting things right section of 
this decision. 
FOLs overall handling of Mr Ts queries
In my provisional decision I proposed that FOL should pay Mr T £400 to recognise the 
practical and emotional impact of its handling of his queries about his account. Mr T has 
requested a higher compensation payment to recognise the time he has spent trying to get 
his queries answered and for the time he has spent on his complaint submissions. Ive 
considered the arguments he makes but I havent found reason to increase the 
compensation. 
I understand the points Mr T makes for why he would like compensation linked to his 
earnings from his employment. But in the situation of this complaint, I dont find that 
compensation should be considered in this way. I have factored in the inconvenience he has 
experienced by spending time dealing with the matter. Mr T brings the complaint in his 
personal capacity, so I dont find it appropriate to link compensation to his earnings. If Mr T 
has used holiday or flexi time when dealing with the matter it wont have resulted in a 
financial loss  but I do appreciate he may have lost the chance to use this time on his own 
terms, and again I have factored that in to the award I make. I also dont think its appropriate 
to compensate Mr T for the time he spent making submissions to this service either. We are 
a free service to the public and dont make awards for time spent on making submissions to 
support the complaints that are referred to us. 
For the reason given in my provisional decision and those given above, I find that FOL hasnt 
treated Mr T fairly in the way it administered his account after he made his withdrawals 
request. I also find that it failed to answer and deal with his queries on his account in a timely 
and effective way  causing his distress and inconvenience. For these reasons I uphold this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
I direct FOL to calculate whether Mr T would have received a greater interest payment by 
calculating the difference between what his funds earnt in interest whilst waiting to be 
withdrawn compared to the 8% interest it has been offered. 
When looking at the comparative calculation FOL can take into account any loans where 
interest payments due were missed and not paid by any other provision (e.g. would have 
been covered by a provision fund), so not actually accrued. If there were any loans which 
were repaid early, if the funds werent paid immediately (i.e. with a couple of days) to Mr T 
and instead retained by FOL despite the pending withdrawal request, FOL must add 8% 
simple interest on these funds from the date they stopped earning interest to the date they 
were paid to Mr T. This is to recognise the cost of Mr T being deprived of money. 
If FOL is unable to accurately calculate what the returns were after the withdrawals requests, 
it can use the figure of what the funds had earnt prior to the requests (i.e. the 11% in quoted in the spreadsheet it sent) as a reasonable basis of how much interest would have been 
paid.  
FOL needs to set its calculation in a clear and transparent way, so that it can easily be 
understood which loans Mr T was invested in and how much interest was received for those 
loans during the relevant period. It should also clearly show if any loans had missed 
payments, anywhere a provision fund would have met the payment and any that were repaid 
early (including the 8% interest added to these loans).
When the calculation is complete, FOL should pay Mr T the higher amount. So if the 
comparison shows that Mr T would have received more in interest if he was paid the actual 
returns on his funds than the 8% offered, FOL should pay him this amount  but if this is less 
it should honour the 8% offer it made. 
FOL should also add interest at 8% simple per year on the amount paid from the date Mr T 
had his funds returned to the date of settlement.  
I also direct FOL to pay Mr T £400 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered as a 
result of way FOL dealt with his queries.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and tell FUND OURSELVES LIMITED to complete a calculation of the 
interest Mr T is due  as described above  and pay him that amount. And pay Mr T £400 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of his queries. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman