DRN-2080647
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy that Mr and Mrs S bought in 1991. 
They took it out in connection with a joint mortgage they arranged with Halifax, when it was 
trading as Leeds Permanent Building Society. The policy provided cover for Mr S if he 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs S the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs S are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 
Mr and Mrs S say they didnt know the policy had been added to their account, and that 
Halifax didnt give them a proper choice about buying it. Mr S has also told me about his 
employment plans once the mortgage was in place. With those in mind, he says it wouldnt 
have made sense for him to buy the policy. He considers this shows that the policy was 
never discussed, and was added to the account without Mr and Mrs Ss knowledge. Ive 
noted everything Mr and Mrs S have said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs S and 
Halifax when the PPI was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
But Halifax has provided a copy of its internal records, and from those I can see that the 
policy was cancelled in 1992. In light of what Mr S has told me about his employment and 
training after the mortgage was arranged, its possible that when their circumstances 
changed he and Mrs S decided they no longer needed the policy.  
I accept its possible the PPI wasnt discussed when Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was 
arranged, but its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Mr and Mrs S 
may no longer remember this. Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs S have told 
me, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware of the 
PPI or that they had a choice about buying it. 
Halifax accepts that it probably advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the PPI and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mr S was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
- Mr S was entitled to statutory sick pay if he couldnt work because of sickness or accident, 
and hes said that family members wouldve helped him and Mrs S if things went wrong. But 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ss statutory benefits, and wouldve meant he 
and Mrs S didnt have to rely on their family. So I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr 
and Mrs S if Mr S couldnt work.   
- Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs S needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs S before they agreed to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for it. The policy 
was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs S 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have 
taken out the policy.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman