DRN-4397716
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the settlement Wakam paid them after they made a claim for 
accidental damage to their television under their home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs C are joint policyholders. As most of the communication relating to the complaint 
has been from Mr C, Ill refer mainly to him in my decision.
Wakam is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Wakam has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Wakam includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In early 2023, Mr and Mrs C made a claim under their home insurance policy with Wakam 
after their television was accidentally damaged.
Wakam offered them a cash settlement of £729 (less the £300 policy excess) for the item.
Mr C didnt think Wakams offer was enough, so he raised a complaint. Wakam maintained 
its position. It said Mr Cs original television that hed purchased in 2017 was no longer 
made. It said its value checkers had suggested a like for like replacement model that could 
be purchased for £729.
Mr C remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator didnt 
think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Wakam had settled Mr Cs claim 
in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators outcome. He commented that Wakam had increased 
his monthly premium. He said hed asked Wakam which television he could buy of the same 
specification for £729, but nothing was provided. He was unable to find anything when he 
searched. He said the television Wakam had suggested was like for like was not the same 
specification as his original television.
Mr C said he was unhappy with the claim because hed purchased the television for £1,299 
(after obtaining a £100 discount) and his premium had increased by £120 for the year. He 
also questioned why Wakam had asked him to provide a receipt. 
As Mr C disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
I havent considered Mr Cs concern about the increase in his premium as he doesnt appear 
to have raised this with Wakam prior to bringing his complaint to our service. Our service 
may be able to consider this matter as a separate complaint once Wakam has had the 
opportunity to address it.
The policys terms and conditions set out how a claim will be settled. They say:
If you claim for loss or damage to the contents, we will at our option repair, replace or pay 
for any article covered.
For total loss or destruction of any article we will pay you the cost of replacing the article as 
new, as long as:
the new article is as close as possible to but not an improvement on the original 
article when it was new; and
you have paid or we have authorised the cost of replacement
The settlement report from Wakams agent who validated the claim says they were unable to 
provide a replacement. They recommended a settlement cost of £729 based on the 
recommended retail price of a model of television from the same manufacturer as Mr Cs, 
which was of the same size.
Mr C says the television Wakam suggested isnt of the same specification as his original 
television. Wakam says the manufacturer no longer makes standard QLED televisions. They 
use a newer technology called Neo QLED, which is a technology from 2021 and it would 
consider this to be a big upgrade to the original model in question. 
Mr C has provided a link to a QLED television from the same manufacturer which is of a 
slightly lower price than the amount he paid for his original television. However, I dont think 
this shows that what Wakam has said about the manufacturer using more advanced 
technology than it did when he purchased his television six years ago is wrong.  
The terms of the policy only require Wakam to pay Mr C enough to cover the cost of 
replacing his television with one which is as close as possible to (but not an improvement 
on) the one that was damaged. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell Wakam to pay Mr C 
the cost of a television which would be considered an upgrade.
I appreciate the settlement Wakam paid Mr C to settle the claim is significantly lower than 
the amount he paid for his television six years earlier. But the purpose of this type of 
insurance is to put the policyholder back in the position they were just before the loss or 
damage happened. The technology market moves rapidly, and costs can decrease quickly 
as new technologies emerge and become must-have features or existing technologies 
advance. So, providing an equivalent television will become considerably cheaper over time, 
and sometimes in a relatively short period of time.
I havent seen evidence to persuade me that the television Wakam based its settlement offer 
on is of a lower quality than Mr Cs original television. So, I dont think Wakam has acted 
unfairly.
Mr C has queried why Wakam required him to provide a receipt for the television when it 
wouldnt compensate him the full amount hed paid for it:
The policys terms and conditions say:
It is your responsibility to prove any loss and you must provide us with evidence of the value 
or age (or both) for all items or parts of your building involved in a claim. To help prove your 
claim we will require you to provide original purchase receipts, invoices, bank or credit card statements, instruction booklets, photographs, utility bills, pre-purchase surveys or plans and 
deeds of your home.
So, I think its likely that Wakam asked Mr C to provide a receipt to show proof of ownership 
as part of its claim validation process.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr C. But, based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Wakam has fairly settled Mr Cs claim in line with the policys terms and conditions. 
So, I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman