DRN-3549777
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money they lost to a binary 
options investment scam.
As most of the correspondence is from Mr E, Ill treat all submissions as having come from 
him in this decision. 
What happened
Around November 2017, Mr E, a pensioner, was cold called by a merchant named Ashford 
Investments who offered him an opportunity to invest with them. He researched them and 
spoke with Mrs E and they thought it sounded like a good deal, so he paid £250 using his 
HSBC Visa debit card to open a trading account with them. Mr E saw some small profits and 
was persuaded to pay a further £15,000 (over two separate payments) on 21 November 
2017. He paid these amounts using his HSBC Visa debit card  linked to his current 
account.
Mr E tried to withdraw some of his profits the same day but was unable to. He got suspicious 
and called HSBC to dispute the payments on 21 November 2017. HSBC advised Mr E that 
the payments were authorised by him and were not yet posted to his account, so hed have 
to wait to dispute them. On 23 November 2017, Mr E called HSBC to dispute the payments 
again. He said he was unable to withdraw his money and hadnt been paid a bonus he was 
promised. He was advised by HSBC to wait to see if he received his bonus.
 
Mr E received a credit from Ashford investments (to his HSBC current account) on 23 
November 2017 for £100. He subsequently received two further credits totalling £1,000 from 
them on 4 December 2017. 
Mr E says Ashford Investments constantly called him and pressured him to pay more 
money.
 
On 6 December 2017, Mr E paid Ashford Investments a further two payments (using his 
HSBC Visa debit card) totalling £10,000. 
On 15 January 2018, Mr E contacted HSBC to dispute all the transactions to Ashford 
Investments because he said they werent allowing the withdrawal of funds. HSBC sent a 
declaration form to Mr E and asked for supporting information. 
Once Mr E returned the paperwork to HSBC, it processed chargeback claims on his behalf 
and temporarily credited the disputed transactions to him. Ashford Investments bank 
defended the chargeback claims and HSBC escalated them to Visas pre-arbitration stage. 
They too were defended and HSBC advised Mr E that the disputed funds would be returned 
to Ashford Investments bank. 
Mr E complained to HSBC about its decision and HSBC replied advising it had followed 
Visas rules and it couldnt do anymore to assist him. Mr E referred the matter to this office. 
One of our Investigators upheld Mr Es complaint. He felt the chargeback ought to have been 
more rigorously pursued. HSBC didnt agree. 
On 1 June 2022, I issued my provisional decision largely upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings (which form part of this final decision) below:
I have considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback 
Ive noted that when Mr E contacted HSBC in January 2018 to dispute four payments to 
Ashford Investments, he didnt appear to have the evidence required by Visa. His disputed 
payments didnt include the initial £250 paid to Ashford Investments, so Ive not considered 
this payment as part of this complaint. 
Mr E needed to produce (amongst other things); a dated screenshot of his trading account 
showing a balance and that hed tried to withdraw an amount equal to or less than the 
available balance on the same day. 
So whilst HSBC did attempt chargeback claims on Mr Es behalf, Im not persuaded it had 
any reasonable prospect of success by escalating Mr Es claims to Visas final stage of 
arbitration. And thats because Mr E didnt have the required evidence for it to do so. 
I do however think that HSBC would have likely recovered Mr Es initial £15,000 via the Visa 
chargeback scheme if it had better handled his call in November 2017. Ill explain this further 
below. 
Fraud prevention 
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr E for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr E using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by HSBC.
 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.Updated its internal watchlist to include information from credible sources within a 
month of any adverse publication. Credible sources include information published on 
the FCAs watch list or the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO) Investor Alerts Portal. 
Im satisfied that Ashford Investments were scammers. I say this because the FCA published 
a warning about them on 6 March 2018 (after Mr E made all of his payments). 
Ashford Investments were required to be regulated by the UKs Gambling Commission at the 
time of Mr Es payments and they were not, nor were they regulated anywhere else as far as 
Im reasonably aware. A legitimate company would tend to comply with regulatory 
requirements. 
As Im satisfied Ashford Investments were scammers, I need to consider whether HSBC 
should have flagged any of the payments to them.
Whilst HSBC ought to be alert to potential fraud and scams, there are factors that can 
influence how it decides to flag payments. One of those factors include what it knows about 
the payee, other factors include what it knows about its customers and whats normal 
account usage for them. In this case, the FCA hadnt yet published a warning about Ashford 
Investments, so I dont think HSBC could have reasonably been aware that they were 
potential scammers at the point of Mr Es payments of £15,000 on 21 November 2017. 
This is a large sum of money to pay out of an account but I dont think HSBC had built a 
picture of what normal account usage looked like for Mr E yet as his HSBC account was 
newly opened and had already had large legitimate payments (over £15,000) paid in and out 
of it. 
I therefore dont think HSBC could have reasonably concluded  at the point of Mr Es 
payments to Ashford Investments on 21 November 2017  that Mr E could be the victim of a 
scam. 
I do however think that HSBC were put on notice that Mr E may have fallen victim to a scam 
when he called it on 23 November 2017. HSBC has been unable to provide a copy of this 
call, so Ive relied on the notes it has been able to provide. 
The notes say
:
Ch said that he made a payment for £250.00 dtd 15 Nov2017 from 
ASHFORDINVESTMENTS for opening his online trading account. He tried to make a 
withdrawal recently but the system cancelled it. He then contacted his investment 
manager and he was advised that the withdrawal is going to be processed w/in 7 
days. Also, he was promised to rcv bonus on his investment by the IM if hes going to 
invest £15000.00 on the account. The bonus will be given at the end of the month. 
Ch didnt cancel his account with the retailer yet. Hence, advised the ch to wait if he 
would be able to rcv bonus and if he going to rcv the refund on the account. 
Mr E had called HSBC two days earlier to dispute the same payments and was asked to call 
back when the payments were posted to his account, which he did. I think it was clear that 
Mr E wanted his money back and had concerns about Ashford Investments.
 
I think HSBCs disputes team ought to have been aware of binary options scams as it was a 
common type of investment scam at the point of Mr Es payment. And Visa had expanded its 
rules a month earlier to cover scenarios where cardholders had problems with withdrawals 
from binary options and forex investment trading account. Ashford Investments were 
unregulated and unlicensed at the point of Mr Es payment, so I think HSBC could have identified this when he called it to try to recover his funds. I think there were clear warning 
signs from Mr Es explanation that he was falling victim to a binary options scam. 
Given the information that Mr E had volunteered, I think it would have been appropriate for 
HSBC to ask further suitably probing questions. There is no reason to doubt that Mr E would 
have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to 
protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have explained to him the 
very high risks of getting involved with unregulated and unlicensed binary options dealers. It 
could have also explained its own customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed 
high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing 
available balances (which is an issue that Mr E was experiencing). After all, at that time, 
there was information in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay 
consumer ought notabout the very high risks associated with binary options trading, 
including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the 
European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions 
December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City 
of London Polices October 2017 report noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options 
fraud; Visas Business News publication of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback 
scheme rules to cover binary options and investment disputes arising from merchants often 
unlicensed and unregulated deploying deceptive practices; and so forth). 
Rather than providing Mr E with a meaningful warning and assistance with processing 
chargeback claims on his behalf (which would have likely succeeded as he still had access 
to his trading account and had just made a withdrawal request), HSBC suggested that he 
continue to engage with Ashford Investments. And it ought to have been reasonably aware 
(based on its own customer complaints and insights) that these investment scammers are 
well trained to overcome objections and would also provide smaller token withdrawals, to 
entice consumers to make further payments (which is what happened here). It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene. 
If HSBC had asked Mr E the basic surrounding context of his introduction to Ashford 
Investments, it is likely he would have fully explained that he had been cold called him and 
everything was done over the phone and online with his broker. HSBC did not need to know 
for certain whether Mr E was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or 
investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion 
are enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of 
good practice. I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought 
reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to 
financial professionals about the risks associated with unregulated forex and binary options 
dealers. 
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mr E would have paused and looked more 
closely into Ashford Investments before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing 
to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more 
probable that he would have made further enquiries into whether or not Ashford Investments 
were regulated in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered they were not and the various 
regulatory warnings about the risk of unregulated investment scams (see above) including 
problems with withdrawals  which Mr E had experienced. In other words, I am satisfied that 
a warning from a trusted bank like HSBC would probably have exposed Ashford 
Investments smoke and mirrors, causing him not to invest any further and preventing any 
further losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before 
Mr E made any further payments, he would probably have stopped in his tracks. But for 
HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm and its failure to 
appropriately assist Mr E with processing chargeback claims when he initially requested 
them, Mr E would probably have not lost any further money. And would have likely 
recovered the £15,000 he had already paid through the Visa chargeback scheme. 
 
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).
In the circumstances, I do think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mr 
E should share blame for what happened. I dont think Mr E could reasonably have known 
that Ashford Investments were scammers when he opened a trading account with them, 
there was no adverse information about them at the time. But Mr E said he suspected 
Ashford Investments were scammers when they didnt allow him to withdraw his money 
which Ive noted was after his payments of 21 November 2017. 
Whilst I can see why Mr E was persuaded to invest further by being permitted to make 
withdrawals totalling £1,100 in between November 2017 to December 2017 (before he made 
further payments) and was promised reimbursement with further payments, he had 
suspicions this might be a scam.
I think it would be fair to reduce compensation by 15% on the basis that Mr E should share 
some blame for what happened. Ive taken a view that 15% is appropriate because whilst Mr 
E had concerns about Ashford Investments, I think HSBC (a financial professional) alleviated 
some of these concerns by suggesting that he re-engage with Ashford Investments to see if 
they would permit withdrawals and add bonuses to his account. It should have known that 
they would likely provide token withdrawals to keep Mr E investing further, so I think it 
provided reassurance that Mr E should continue to communicate with Ashford Investments. 
And in my view, this enabled Mr E to be scammed further. 
But I have to recognise that Mr E said he questioned his personal judgement in continuing to 
invest with them based on the behaviour of his broker and it would be fair that he shares (a 
much lesser proportion) of the blame here
. 
Finally, I think HSBC should pay Mr E £200 compensation for how it handled his initial 
chargeback requests. I think it could have stopped the scam in its tracks on 23 November 
2017 but instead, it provided poor advice to Mr E which enabled him to be scammed further. 
This was avoidable and caused Mr E trouble and upset because by the time he contacted 
HSBC again in January 2018, he was unable to obtain the evidence required to process a 
successful chargeback claim because hed lost his money. 
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC didnt reply to my provisional decision. 
Mr E replied to my provisional decision and added some additional points. In summary he 
said:He tried to gather as much information as he could from Ashford Investments and the 
police officer he reported the matter to agreed the tactics were both harassing and 
menacing. 
15% contributory negligence does not portray the whole picture for HSBCs failings in 
relation to chargeback and fraud prevention. It is an international corporate bank. 
The entire matter has caused him unnecessary stress and illness. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied that this complaint should mainly be upheld. 
I have no doubt that Mr E had a harrowing experience with Ashford Investments and in his 
initial dealings with them, he couldnt have reasonably known they were scammers. 
However, Mr E realised quite quickly that they could have been scammers, this was in his 
testimony. So whilst I agree that HSBC failed to correctly explain the chargeback process to 
Mr E in his initial calls to it and it could have identified that hed fallen victim to a scam, I 
have to take into consideration that Mr E chose to pay Ashford Investments more money 
despite having concerns they were scammers. 
Having said that, I do appreciate Ashford Investments alleviated some of Mr Es concerns 
about being unable to withdraw money from his trading account by permitting smaller 
withdrawals. I also appreciate by HSBC providing what I consider to have been incorrect 
advice  this contributed to pushing Mr E back into the arms of the scammers. So when 
weighing all of this up, I have taken into consideration all parties contributing factors and in 
this case, HSBC is mostly to blame for the loss. But Mr E did contribute to some of his 
losses by continuing to engage with Ashford Investments which was against what he 
described as his own personal judgement. I therefore think a reduction of 15% is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into consideration HSBCs failure in providing incorrect advice to Mr E about 
his chargeback options, I think it should pay compensation. I have taken into account that 
most of the distress caused to Mr E was the result of the actions of the cruel scammers, not 
HSBC. And because of this, I think £200 is a fair and reasonable sum to recognise HSBCs 
failings under the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I mainly uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank plc should 
refund to Mr and Mrs E all of their stolen payments  but subject to a 15% deduction for 
contributory negligence. 
As Mr E received £1,100 in pay-out inducements from Ashford Investments, these should 
be deducted from the overall settlement. This leaves a total loss balance of £23,900, so 85% 
of that would amount to an award of £20,315. 
The funds originated from Mr and Mrs Es newly opened current account and they required 
easy access to that money. HSBC should add interest to that sum (less any tax properly 
deductible) at 8% simple per year from the respective dates of loss to the date of refund.
HSBC should also pay £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs E.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman