DRN-4006709
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage portfolio Mrs and Mr B used to hold with 
The Mortgage Works (TMW). Mrs and Mr B are unhappy with how TMW dealt with their 
attempts to change from having a single mortgage covering their entire mortgage 
portfolio to having individual mortgages over each individual property.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 21 February 2023, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr B and TMW, 
and not in dispute. So I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mrs and Mr B appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
In 2020, Mrs and Mr B complained about the mortgage having been set up on a 
portfolio basis in the first place. That complaint was referred to this service, and was 
the subject of a final decision in February 2021. 
In the meantime, various release of property (ROP) requests were initiated but not 
completed, until in late 2020, it was decided Mrs and Mr B would replace the portfolio 
mortgage with three individual mortgages, one on each of the BTL properties. This 
required all three mortgages to complete simultaneously so that the portfolio 
mortgage could be redeemed in a single transaction. Two of the new mortgage offers 
were issued in December 2020, but the third didnt materialise until February 2021. 
Meantime, in a phone conversation with TMW in January 2021, Mrs and Mr B say 
they were told theyd need to make another ROP request.
Mrs and Mr B complained again; they were unhappy with the valuations, the 
redemption amounts quoted, and with the actions of TMWs appointed solicitor, who 
apparently also told them an ROP would be needed for the property on which the 
offer had seemingly been delayed. TMW addressed the complaint in a final response 
dated 5 March 2021. In this TMW referenced the two earlier complaints but didnt 
revisit them, instead reminding Mrs and Mr B those matters had already been 
addressed in previous final responses. 
In August 2021, Mrs and Mr B contacted us and asked us to investigate; they told us 
theyd eventually re-mortgaged elsewhere because theyd lost confidence with TMW. 
Mrs and Mr B said that if theyd been allowed to re-mortgage separately in 2019, 
theyd have saved in the region of £13,000. Our investigator didnt think TMW had 
done anything wrong, so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs and Mr B 
asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
The case came to me, and in a jurisdiction decision in July 2022, I concluded that the 
Financial Ombudsman Services power under its rules to consider this complaint was 
confined to how TMW administered the attempt during late 2020 and early 2021 to 
replace the portfolio mortgage with three individual mortgages. This decision deals 
with the merits of that subject. 
At the same time as I issued my jurisdiction decision, I took the view that it would be 
necessary to see the file from the solicitors engaged in the re-mortgage transaction. 
The delay in reaching this stage, for which I apologise, has been caused by the 
amount of time it has taken to get that file.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual 
disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate 
the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a different conclusion from the investigator. This 
provisional decision allows the parties to make further comments, assuming they 
wish to, before my decision is finalised.
The key to this transaction proceeding smoothly was that all three new mortgages 
needed to complete simultaneously, and all three components of the existing portfolio 
needed to be redeemed simultaneously. For that to happen, there needed to be three 
new mortgage offers in place, and three redemption statements needed to be 
requested. As I said in my earlier summary, that didnt happen; two offers were 
issued in December 2020, and the third wasnt issued until February 2021. 
Meantime, redemption statements were requested separately, which is what 
triggered the ROP process that irked Mrs and Mr B so much.
The main reason our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld was that 
he took the view that the solicitors acting in the transaction had mistakenly asked for 
three separate redemption statements instead of one collective one. Mrs and Mr B 
argued that the solicitor received their instructions from TMW. They are right on that 
point, TMW did instruct the solicitors, but that doesnt mean TMW is responsible for 
everything the solicitors did. Its a bit more nuanced than that, which is partly why I 
needed to see the solicitors file.
As a starting point, the Financial Ombudsman Service has no direct jurisdiction over 
the activities of a firm of solicitors. The exception is where a solicitor is carrying out 
one or more of the tasks listed above as being on behalf of the lender. Where thats 
the case, the solicitor is acting as the lenders agent, in which such acts or omissions 
do come within our remit. Normally, in a purchase and mortgage transaction, solicitors have two clients, the 
purchaser and the lender. There are two discrete roles the solicitors carry out. For 
the lender, the solicitors have to ensure that the title is suitable security for the 
mortgage. They will arrange signature of the mortgage deed, prepare the report on 
title for the lender, obtain any undertakings (binding promises) from the sellers 
solicitors to safeguard the lenders position, theyll transfer the funds over on 
completion and register the lenders charge.
In this transaction, however, Mrs and Mr B already owned the properties. With no 
purchase involved, even though the solicitors received their instructions from TMW, 
the solicitors duties on TMWs behalf were reduced, and requesting redemption 
statements, either separately or collectively, wasnt one of them. 
That said, I have considered whether TMWs instructions, in this instance, were clear 
enough at the outset about the need for all three elements to proceed 
simultaneously. I think TMWs letter to the solicitors dated 26 February 2021 went 
some way towards doing this, but in my view, that clarification could have been 
provided sooner. The solicitors needed to know in December 2020, when the first two 
new offers were issued, that all three new offers needed to be in place, and that once 
they were, an aggregate redemption statement should be requested for the whole of 
the existing portfolio. 
If that had happened, a great deal of confusion and debate over redemption shortfalls 
and valuations could have been avoided. And of course its possible Mrs and Mr B 
might then have stayed with TMW rather than move to a different lender altogether. 
That doesnt mean I consider it fair that TMW should compensate Mrs and Mr B the 
financial impact of moving lenders. Ultimately, the choice to do that was theirs, and 
they must accept the consequences, financial and/or otherwise, of doing so. Also, I 
dont think TMW could reasonably have foreseen them taking that action.
That said, I do think some financial redress is warranted for the time, trouble and 
upset Mrs and Mr B have experienced. In all the circumstances, taking into account 
the commercial nature of the transaction and that at no time was Mrs and Mr Bs 
home at risk, Im minded to award £300.
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both have done so. TMW 
agreed to pay the compensation I was proposing. Mrs and Mr B said they probably would 
have stayed with TMW if they could have got things straightened out, but felt they had no 
option but to re-mortgage due to the communication problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
and with neither party saying anything new, I dont depart from my provisional conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part by ordering The Mortgage Works to 
pay Mrs and Mr B £300 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman