DRN-2941140
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) didnt do more to help him after he was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr A has an account with Monzo. In May 2020, he decided to invest his money using 
the services of someone who had approached him on a social media platform. I 
understand 
Mr A had been approached by this individual in the past and opted to not respond. 
However, on this occasion he was persuaded that it would be worth investing his 
money with him.
Unfortunately, the individual that had contacted Mr A wasnt a legitimate investment 
manager but a fraudster. Mr A made several transfers to this individual on the 
understanding that he was making a short-term but high-yielding investment speculating on 
movements in foreign exchange. Some of those transfers (but not all) were made from his 
Monzo account. In total, he transferred just over £3,000 from his Monzo account.
Once he realised that hed been the victim of a scam, he contacted Monzo to let it know. It 
investigated his concerns but said it wouldnt pay him a refund. It didnt think Mr A had 
taken adequate steps to verify that the person he was dealing with was legitimate. Mr A 
was unhappy with Monzos response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator considered whether 
it was fair and reasonable for Monzo to have declined Mr As claim under a specific 
voluntary code of practice  the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.
This code sets out the circumstances under which a firm should pay a refund to a 
customer and where it can choose to not do so. The Investigator noted that a firm could 
opt to not pay a refund if (amongst other reasons) it was satisfied that its customer made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the person they were paying was 
legitimate.
The Investigator concluded that there were several factors that ought to have made Mr A 
realise that it was unlikely he was dealing with a legitimate investment manager.
Mr A was unhappy with the investigators conclusion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres 
no dispute here that Mr A authorised these payments.
However, under the CRM code, a firm is expected to reimburse a customer who is the 
victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam, like Mr A. Monzo hasnt signed up to 
the code, but it has agreed to follow its provisions. There are a limited set of circumstances 
set out in the code in which a firm can choose not to reimburse its customer. One such 
circumstance (and the most relevant in this case) is where it can be demonstrated that the 
customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
The payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
The payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
The person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Monzo says it wont refund Mr As losses because it doesnt think he had a reasonable 
basis for believing that he was dealing with a legitimate person. Ive considered that point 
carefully and I agree with that conclusion. I say that because:
He was promised an unrealistically generous return on his investment  he was 
told that he should expect to double his investment within 24 hours and that such 
a generous return could be achieved without any risk to his investment or paying 
a fee for the services of the investment manager. I think Mr A ought to have 
treated this promise with more scepticism than he did and recognised that it was 
likely too good to be true.
Mr A was asked to make payments to private individuals that, on the face of it, 
were not connected with the company that was supposedly managing his 
investment. None of the payments he made were to a company bank account or 
to any individual connected with the company he believed was managing his 
investment. I think this wouldve been reasonable grounds for suspicion, but as 
far as I can see, Mr A didnt question this with the scammer.
There were no formalities in terms of the agreement hed reached with the 
scammer
 he hadnt seen or agreed to a contract or received any literature explaining 
the terms on which the investment was being offered.
When Mr A was told that hed need to pay fees in order to access the return on 
his investment, this came as a surprise to him. From what hes told me, there had 
been no conversation with the scammer about the likelihood of his investment 
attracting future fees. When the scammer asked Mr A to pay surprise fees, I think 
he ought to have been concerned about the obvious informality of the 
arrangement hed reached.
Ive looked at screenshots of the communications Mr A had with the scammer. 
The tone of these messages is unusually blunt and confrontational. I think most 
customers would be shocked to receive any of these communications from a 
legitimate business and so I think Mr A ought to have recognised this as a 
warning sign.Mr A says he did carry out checks on the investment provider  they told him they 
were a duly registered company in the UK and that he could check their 
registration at Companies House. When he did this, he found a company that 
was actively trading but that appeared to operate in an unconnected field. I 
wouldnt have expected to Mr A to carry out checks on the investment provider 
with forensic detail  but I dont think there was much about the data on the 
Companies House website that shouldve reassured him, particularly in the light 
of the clear warning signs Ive described above.
I dont doubt that Mr S has been the victim of a cruel scam here and he has my sympathy. 
But Im persuaded that the weight of the evidence supports the conclusion that he made 
these payments without a reasonable basis for belief and so failed to meet the requisite 
level of care required under the CRM Code. It follows that it was fair and reasonable for 
Monzo to decline to reimburse him for his losses.
Should Monzo have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Monzo engage in monitoring 
of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character 
transactions with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm. 
And under the CRM Code, where it identified a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP 
scam, it was required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know with the benefit of hindsight, that Mr A was falling victim to a scam. But 
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont Monzo wouldve had 
any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. I say that because they wouldnt have 
appeared out of character or unusual. I say that because the payments themselves werent 
particularly large. Furthermore, Mr A doesnt seem to have been using this account as his 
principal bank account but primarily as a means of making payments. As a result, it would 
be difficult to say that the transfers to the scammer were a deviation from a normal pattern 
of use. For those reasons, I dont think the CRM Code required that Monzo display an 
effective warning as part of the payment process and Im not persuaded it wouldve had any 
grounds for intervening to question the payment with Mr A before allowing it to be 
processed.
I can also see that Monzo didnt act quickly enough to attempt to recover Mr As losses after 
he notified them that hed fallen victim to a scam. But from the evidence the Investigator 
gathered from the receiving banks, I can see that this wouldnt have made any difference. 
By the time Mr A told Monzo what had happened, his funds had already been moved out of 
those accounts.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
James Kimmitt
 Ombudsman