DRN-4309729
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with his question about being 
charged interest.
What happened
Mr H says he contacted Barclays about interest it had charged him on his credit card 
account. He says there was an interest free period and shouldnt have been charged 
interest. Mr H says he asked Barclays about the interest in around November 2022 and was 
told he needed to repay the full account balance to avoid interest which wasnt true. He says 
he spent hours trying to speak to Barclays about the issue and questions if his credit score 
has been affected.
Barclays says Mr H made a balance transfer which is interest free until June 2023. It says he 
then made purchases which were not repaid in full and so interest was correctly charged. 
Barclays accepts the online response Mr H received was incorrect and has refunded the 
interest as well as offering an interest free period for Mr H to clear the purchase balance.
Mr H brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought Barclays had dealt fairly with 
the complaint. The investigator thought the interest was correctly applied and fairly refunded 
when Mr H was given incorrect information.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says he was lied to on multiple occasions. He says the 
mistake could have resulted in him repaying the full balance and questions what the impact 
on others may have been faced with similar circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has acted fairly by refunding 
the interest and allowing Mr H time to repay the purchase balance. I make clear to Mr H that 
we are not Barclays regulator and so its not our role to punish it for any mistakes it makes. 
And I can only consider any impact on Mr H rather than any impact on others.
Im satisfied that having looked at Barclays records that Mr H agreed an interest free balance 
transfer period to June 2023. I dont think there was a relevant interest free period available 
for purchases at the time Mr H used his account. So, I dont think Barclays made a mistake 
by charging interest when Mr H didnt clear the purchase balance in full by the required date. 
And I think Mr H ought to have been reasonably aware of that as he agreed the account 
terms and conditions and the account statements made clear why the interest was being 
charged.
There is no dispute here that Barclays did not provide the correct information when Mr H 
contacted it online. I appreciate what Mr H says that he could have repaid the full balance 
when he didnt need to do so. But I have to consider what did happen rather than what could 
have taken place. And I dont think Mr H did repay the full balance. I can see that Barclays 
correctly told Mr H what the exact position was and fairly agreed to refund the interest which 
I think was correctly charged. I also think Barclays acted fairly by allowing Mr H about a 
month to repay the balance.
I appreciate Mr H says he was lied to, but I have not seen evidence of that or any reason 
why Barclays would. I think Barclays made a mistake which its acknowledged and put right. 
It follows that I dont require Barclays to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I dont consider what took place justifies compensation and dont think there was 
a financial loss caused to Mr H.
I also appreciate Mr H says it was difficult to raise a complaint which took some months to 
raise. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so not something I can consider as 
part of this complaint. I can see Mr H had the online conversation with Barclays in early 
November 2022 and it responded to his complaint on 1 December 2022. So, its unclear why 
Mr H says the complaint took months to raise.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman