DRN-2365382
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is that she wasnt provided with the service she should have been when 
asking for information about the car she had leased under a hire agreement with Arval UK 
Limited.
What happened
Mrs R entered a three year hire agreement with Arval on 1 February 2018 to lease a car. 
She sent an email to Arval on 8 January 2020 to ask about the service on the car. On 13 
January she received an acknowledgement email and called Arval on 14 January. Mrs R 
says it took over an hour to get through and she was then asked to provide the request in 
writing. She resent the previous email and a service complaint was raised.
Mrs R then sent a further email on 22 January asking if she needed to have the car serviced 
and an MOT carried out before returning the car in February 2021. Mrs R called Arval on 26 
February and says after a long wait she spoke to an adviser and was told her complaint had 
been dealt with and so she asked for the response to be sent and for her complaint to be 
escalated to include that she hadnt received a response to her email of the previous month. 
She says this was agreed.
Mrs R says she received an email on 18 March asking for feedback on how her complaint 
had been handled but she hadnt received a response to her complaint at this time. On 5 
April she received an email with the response letter attached. She noted this was dated 17 
March. Mrs R says the response didnt address the points she had raised. Later in April 
Mrs R say she asked for the letter to be posted to her. She received an email saying that 
Arval had tried to call her, but she says it had her contact numbers and no call was received. 
She then received an email saying she would need to wait until the office reopened.
Mrs R says she has wasted a lot of time on this and that she didnt receive the answers or 
service she should have. She wanted her questions answered, a proper investigation into 
her complaint and compensation.
Arval says that it discussed Mrs Rs question about the service on a call on 14 January and 
followed this with an email. It raised a complaint about the service she had received at that 
time. It issued a final response letter dated 17 March 2020 responding to Mrs Rs complaint 
about the service she had received. It apologised that her time had been wasted due to 
being asked for the registration number of her car when this had already been provided and 
the time taken to reach its team when she called. In response to Mrs Rs email saying she 
didnt accept the final response letter as it had been received, it says it tried to contact her by 
telephone and emailed her on 22 April 2020 asking for further information about her 
outstanding issue.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Arval sent Mrs R an email on 
14 January 2020 addressing Mrs Rs question about where she could have the car serviced 
and saying that a complaint would be raised regarding her comments about the service she 
had received. He thought that Arval had adequately addressed Mrs Rs query and therefore 
didnt think it needed to do anything further in response to this issue. 
Regarding the service provided, our investigator didnt think this was of the expected 
standard, but he thought the apology provided by Arval for this was a reasonable resolution 
and didnt think compensation was warranted.
Mrs R didnt accept our investigators view. She said that the call backs promised didnt 
happen, emails werent responded to and when a final response was issued this was a word 
document attached to an email rather than posted. Mrs R says that Arval never provided her 
with the answers to her questions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has complained about the service she received from Arval. She emailed Arval on 8 
January 2020 asking a question about where the second service on her car could take 
place. In this email she included information about her car including the registration number. 
She then received an email back from Arval on 13 January asking for the registration of her 
car. She says a call was then made which took an hour to be answered. I accept that this 
isnt the service Mrs R should have received.
On the call on 14 January I understand the question about the service was answered. I can 
see an email was also sent on this day confirming the answer to the question. While I 
appreciate Mrs R had to chase for the information, as this was received a week after her 
request I do not find that there was an unreasonable delay. The information provided 
addressed the question she raised so I find this resolved this issue.
Mrs Rs service complaint was also logged at this time. Mrs R then sent a further email dated 
22 January 2020 asking about whether she needed to have a service and MOT on the car 
before returning it. I have looked at the hire agreement and sets out that the hirer needs to 
ensure the Vehicle is serviced at the manufacturer's recommended service intervals, and 
any other occasions when faults arise  and will ensure that a current MOT test certificate 
is obtained for the Vehicle when this becomes necessary and will not allow the Vehicle to be 
used without a current certificate in force. As Mrs Rs car was new at the start of the hire 
agreement it would have been due a MOT at the end. I think the information in the hire 
agreement was clear in regard to the requirements, but I also accept that given the timing 
Mrs R was trying to clarify the situation.
I have nothing to show that Arval responded directly to Mrs Rs email dated 22 January. 
However, following the issuing of the final response letter and Mrs R saying she didnt 
accept it sent Mrs R and email asking for details as to why she remained unhappy with its 
response. I note Mrs Rs comments about not receiving the calls at this time but as an email 
was sent as well I find it would have been reasonable to have responded to this if the issues 
remained of concern. The issues Mrs R noted in her email related to the end of the hire term 
which was over a year from the date of the email and so there was time for her to get the 
answers she needed. So, while I appreciate her frustration that a response wasnt received 
to this email, I think she had the time and was given the opportunity to ask this question 
again without any significant inconvenience being caused.
Mrs R says she called Arval on 26 February and was told her complaint had been dealt with. 
I understand she asked for the lack of response to the additional email to be addressed. 
Unfortunately, the call recordings arent available so I cant say what was agreed on this call 
but as it was noted the complaint had been dealt with it seems that the final response letter 
dealt with the service issue Mrs R had raised on 14 January and not the subsequent email.The final response letter was issued dated 17 March, but Mrs R didnt receive this until it was 
attached to an email dated 5 April. While I note the delay, I also note that this was around 
the time that businesses were having to change their practices due to the pandemic. I do not 
find it unreasonable that the final response letter was sent by email and not post and I 
havent evidence to show this delay caused Mrs R any significant inconvenience.
Arval accepted that Mrs R didnt receive the service she should have done however the final 
response letter only addressed the issue regarding the request for the registration and the 
time waiting on calls. There was then the further issue of the email dated 22 January not 
being responded to. But given the information Mrs R requested was available to her in the 
hire agreement and she was asked on 22 April about any outstanding issues, I find that she 
had the information available or could have requested further explanation had she needed 
this.
I can see that Mrs R has been upset by the experience she has had with Arval. However, 
while I accept the service wasnt always what it should have been, I do not find this has 
caused Mrs R any financial loss or significant inconvenience and because of this I do not 
find in this case that compensation is required.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against  Arval UK Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman