DRN-3073727
The complaint
Mr G and Mr M are complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC made errors which delayed 
their mortgage completion.
What happened
Mr G and Mr M were planning to move. They applied for a mortgage with Barclays, and a 
mortgage offer was issued in October 2020.
Completion was arranged for 18 December 2020. Barclays mortgage application notes 
show that on 10 December 2020 they received a letter from Mr G and Mr Ms solicitors about 
the new property. The solicitors said the property didnt have a National House Building 
Council warranty, but it was covered by a Professional Consultants Certificate (PCC.) They 
wanted to check Barclays accepted this. 
On 16 December 2020 Barclays emailed the solicitors to say the PCC wasnt acceptable. 
They said their requirements were set out in section 6.7 of the CML handbook, and if the 
solicitors couldnt comply with this, Barclays couldnt proceed.
Barclays application notes show that on the morning of 18 December 2020 Barclays 
contacted Mr G and Mr Ms solicitors about completion, and told them they were waiting for a 
response to their email. The notes say the solicitors said Mr G and Mr M were waiting to 
move, and theyd reply to the email so that funds could be released.
Later in the day Barclays called the solicitors, and their notes say the solicitors told them Mr 
G and Mr Ms move would no longer be going ahead on that day, and they would request 
another completion date. At around the same time as the call, the solicitors replied to 
Barclays to say they thought the PCC should comply with Barclays requirements. Barclays 
reviewed the solicitors email but they were still unsure if the PCC was acceptable, so they 
decided to pass the solicitors email to a specialist team to be reviewed. 
On 6 January 2021 Barclays received a certificate on title from the solicitors, asking for funds 
to be released on 13 January 2021. But Barclays still hadnt confirmed if the PCC was 
acceptable. On 12 January 2021 Mr G and Mr M sent an email to Barclays Chief Executive 
to explain they were still waiting for an answer, and they were concerned they were going to 
lose the property they were buying.
Later on 12 January 2021, after Mr G and Mr Ms email, Barclays reviewed the PCC and 
decided it was acceptable. On 13 January 2021 they confirmed this to the solicitors, and the 
funds were released for completion.
Mr G and Mr M complained to Barclays about what had happened. They said Barclays had 
delayed completion and caused them stress and financial loss. Barclays replied to say they 
should have confirmed theyd accept the PCC sooner than they did. But they also said the 
delays occurred after completion had already been put back, so completion hadnt been 
delayed. Barclays paid Mr G and Mr M £200 to compensate them for the upset they 
experienced, and they also sent them a hamper.
Mr G and Mr M werent happy with how Barclays responded to their complaint, so they 
referred it to us. They said theyd been chasing Barclays repeatedly over the Christmas 
period, and things were only resolved on 12 January 2021 when they emailed the Chief 
Executive directly. And they said theyd suffered a financial loss because theyd paid an 
extra month on their previous mortgage, when they should have been benefitting from a new 
rate. 
An investigator looked into things, and explained she thought what Barclays had done to 
resolve the complaint was fair. Mr G and Mr M didnt agree, so the complaints been passed 
to me for review and a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr G and Mr Ms complaint, because I think what 
Barclays have already done to resolve it is fair. Ill explain why.
I can see from the application notes that the solicitors requested completion for 18 
December 2020 - before theyd confirmed with Barclays that the PCC would be acceptable. 
They wrote to Barclays about the PCC on 3 December 2020, but Barclays notes suggest 
they didnt receive the letter until 10 December 2020. I think this was already quite late in the 
process to allow Barclays time to review the PCC and respond to the solicitors before the 
planned completion date of 18 December 2020. 
Barclays adviser looked at the PCC on 16 December 2020, and told the solicitors, 
incorrectly, that it wasnt acceptable. The correct process would have been for the adviser to 
refer the PCC to a specialist team for review. But this wasnt spotted until the PCC was 
reviewed again on 18 December 2020. So the process of reviewing the PCC was held up 
slightly due to this error.
But even if the PCC had been correctly referred to the specialist team on 16 December 
2020, I dont think completion would have gone ahead on 18 December 2020 as originally 
planned, because I dont think that gave the specialist team enough time to review it before 
completion. The solicitors raised a query about the security shortly before the planned 
completion date, and I think its reasonable that Barclays would need some time to look into 
this before agreeing to go ahead. I think its this, rather than Barclays error, that led to Mr G 
and Mr M being unable to complete on 18 December 2020. 
So, I dont I can fairly conclude that Barclays was at fault for completion being delayed. And I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to compensate Mr G and Mr M for the extra 
months mortgage payment they say they paid due to completion being delayed, or for the 
loss they say they suffered through not moving to their new mortgage rate earlier than they 
did.
However, its clear that after completion didnt go ahead on 18 December 2020, there was 
an unreasonable delay in Barclays confirming the PCC was acceptable, which would have 
given Mr G and Mr M peace of mind that completion would be going ahead. The solicitors 
asked for the funds to be released on 13 January 2021. But Barclays didnt decide the PCC 
was acceptable until 12 January 2021, just one day before the funds were due to be 
released, and over a month after they received the PCC from the solicitors. Barclays say this 
took too long, and I agree. Ive thought carefully about the impact this would have had on Mr G and Mr M. They say 
they had a difficult Christmas period due to the stress of not knowing if completion would be 
going ahead. I can understand how worrying this would have been for them.
Barclays have already paid Mr G and Mr M £200 (and sent them a hamper) to compensate 
them for this. I do understand Mr G and Mr M think Barclays should pay more to recognise 
the distress they experienced. But taking everything into account, I think £200 is fair, 
reasonable, and in line with awards we would make in similar circumstances.
I can see Mr G and Mr M have also mentioned that Barclays responded to their complaint a 
few days later than they said they would. While I understand this would have added to Mr G 
and Mr Ms frustration, it looks like Barclays did respond to their complaint in just over a 
week, when they generally have eight weeks to respond under the rules. So I dont think the 
time Barclays took to respond was unreasonable. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G and Mr M, and I have no doubt this experience was upsetting for 
them. But I think the compensation Barclays has already paid to them is fair. So Im not 
going to ask Barclays to do anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr G and Mr Ms complaint, for the reasons Ive 
explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman