DRN-4224617
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy he was unable to deposit money in a Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) 
branch and with the attitude and behaviour of the staff member in branch.
What happened
In March 2023 Mr D tried to deposit funds into his account at his local branch. However, 
when he got there Mr D says the staff member said he couldnt as the systems were down 
and proceeded to verbally abuse him. 
Mr D says he was told by Clydesdale he could deposit money at that branch and had taken 
time off work to do it as his shifts dont allow him to do it after he finishes. This led to him 
losing pay and incurring late payment charges in relation to a bill he needed to pay.
Clydesdale spoke to the staff member from the branch, she didnt remember the incident but 
confirmed that the branch doesnt hold cash or allow for deposits so she wouldnt have told 
Mr D the system was down. In view of Mr Ds testimony Clydesdale apologised for the level 
of service received.
Mr D brought his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as 
Mr D remained unhappy its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says he was told there was a system issue when he tried to deposit his funds. 
However, since the branch doesnt hold any cash, I think it more likely than not he was told 
they couldnt accept any deposits. Regardless of the reason, Mr D was unhappy as he 
couldnt deposit money when he needed to.
The website is clear that the branch he visited doesnt have any cash facilities, but Mr D 
says he was told he could deposit cash at that branch over the phone when he was 
discussing another matter. I can understand Mr Ds frustration after specifically taking time 
off work but having listened to all the calls logged around the time Mr D says he spoke to 
Clydesdale, theres no evidence to support that he was told he could specifically deposit 
cash at the specific branch in question as hes indicated. So, I cant say Clydesdale have 
done anything wrong in this respect.
Whilst I recognise Mr D says hes lost wages because of this and incurred a late payment 
fee, that isnt something I can hold Clydesdale responsible for. Mr D chose to take time off 
work to go to the branch. He couldve deposited funds at the post office and Im aware there 
was one in the vicinity of the branch he had visited.
Clydesdale advised the staff member was the only member of staff in store at the time and 
doesnt remember the incident Mr D describes. But based on Mr Ds testimony, that he was 
verbally abused by one of their staff members, theyve apologised. I understand Clydesdale 
have apologised for the poor service provided. In order to award compensation, I would 
need to satisfy myself that the incident occurred in the way Mr D describes. Unfortunately, 
due to the lack of evidence I cant say for certain what was said and in what context so 
taking everything into account I think the apology provided is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman