DRN-2725686
The complaint
Mr S says Experian Limited mis-led him into thinking he would be successful when applying
for credit with particular lenders. He is unhappy because hes had two credit applications
declined.
To resolve things Mr S wants Experian to remove the searches carried out by the lender
from his credit file as well as give him compensation for the trouble this has caused him. He
says whats happened has prevented him from consolidating existing loans to improve his
monthly financial commitments and he now has to wait until his credit file improves before
applying again.
What happened
For individuals with an Experian account, Experian provides a service called CreditMatcher.
This service uses information provided to Experian by the individual and information from
lenders who set out to Experian broadly what their lending criteria is. Individuals are then
given a percentage by CreditMatcher to indicate the likely success of an application with a
lender.
Mr S says that on two occasions CreditMatcher presented him with a 95% chance of
success if he were to apply for credit with particular lenders. However, both lenders declined
Mr Ss applications for credit.
Mr S has told us he understands the 95% indicator is a guide, but he says its virtually
impossible that two such high chances of successful applications should both be refused.
Mr S says hes unhappy because he thinks Experian are breaching the following Financial
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) principles:
7. Communications with clients  a firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its
clients and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
8. Conflicts of interest  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself
and its customers and between a customer and another client.
9. Customer: relationships of trust  A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the
suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely
upon its judgment
In summary, Mr S says its unfair of Experian to suggest a 95% chance of success when
they dont know if thats true. And he suggested there was a conflict of interest as Experian
would surely profit from referring someone to a lender, while telling them theyre eligible for a
loan when clearly they are not. Mr S also said hed trusted Experian as he was entitled to do.
Experian didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. They explained they were not the lenders making
the decision about whether to agree credit for Mr S and that several factors would be
considered by a lender when reaching that decision  so lending was not reliant on the
percentage of likely success put forward by Experian. Experian also said the percentage of
likely lending success they quoted to individuals was based on information they held and
received from both parties. So it was important individuals ensured their information was
correct.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. In summary, this was because there was
no guarantee the lending would be agreed by lenders and it wasnt for Experian to make that
decision, so Experian couldnt be held at fault for the lending not being approved.
Mr S disagreed and maintained that CreditMatcher was unfair and misleading because it
had on two occasions suggested high, likely chances of successful lending applications.
I issued my provisional decision to both Mr S and Experian and I include a copy of my 
provisional findings below which form part of this decision. 
Provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that Mr Ss complaint should not be upheld, but
my reasons for this differ slightly as I will explain.
Mr Ss submissions include reference to his belief Experian have not adhered to the FCA
Principles, particularly those described earlier. Our investigator explained there were
limitations around how our service views the Principles in the context of considering
complaints  that is, they said it was for the FCA to say whether or not the Principles had
been breached. However, it may help if I explain a little further.
The FCA Principles can be found in the FCAs Handbook and are a general statement of the
obligations on firms covered under the regulatory system. The Principles underpin the more
specific regulatory requirements in place for different types of business being carried out.
Experians main business is to provide information about a consumers credit history.
However, in this particular case Experian is acting as a credit broker. The requirements of
those carrying out the business of credit broking are set out within the FCAs Handbook
under the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC). The obligations set out here build on,
amongst other things, the FCAs Principles.
CONC explains firms carrying out activities in relation to credit-regulated activities (such as
credit broking) and ancillary activities should pay attention to particular Principles. Of the
three Principles Mr S has referred to, only Principles 7 and 9 are mentioned in this context.
Neither Mr S nor Experian have provided any detail around what information Mr S would
have seen when the CreditMatcher options were presented to Mr S. And Ive not seen any
evidence to suggest that Mr S was given any advice by Experian. Experian has also
explained Mr S was not charged a fee for the CreditMatcher service and their website sets
out that they may receive commission from a lender.
While the information available to me is limited, both parties agree that Mr S was presented
with a 95% chance of a successful application for two lenders  and this is Mr Ss main
concern.Ive carefully considered Mr Ss concerns that Experian was wrong to present him with a
95% chance for a successful application when he then went on to be refused credit. Mr S
says while he understands a 95% chance of success is not guaranteed, the percentage was
unfair and misleading and he has talked much about the odds of being refused twice with
such likely chances of success.
I can appreciate Mr Ss frustrations, as most people would recognise 95% as a high chance
of success. But while Mr S has mentioned that the chances of being refused twice for credit
in such circumstances should be worked out, I dont think its for this service to carry out
such a calculation and I dont think it adds anything here. As our investigator explained, 95%
was still not a guarantee that lending would be approved.
While Ive not been shown exactly what Mr S would have seen, Experians website does
explain they are the credit broker and not the lender  so they only help to find deals and do
not approve lending. Ultimately, its for a lender to decide who they lend or provide credit to.
A lender will take a number of factors into consideration, and not all of those will be things
that Experian will be aware of or have control over. Experians website includes some of the
things that might be taken into account by a lender. And its also worth noting that Experians
match between customer and lender is based on information provided to Experian by the
individual and the business. So if an individuals information is not correct, then this could
affect things as well.
So from what Ive seen, I cant say that Experian has done anything wrong here. I would add
that any searches appearing on Mr Ss credit file will have been performed by the lender, not
Experian.
Even if I were to accept Experian could have presented Mr S with better information (and to
be clear, I am not concluding that is the case), I think it unlikely this would have changed
things for Mr S.
Ive said this because from the submissions available to me, it appears Mr S was seeking
credit to consolidate existing debt and manage his monthly financial commitments. If
Experian had not provided Mr S with any options, or he had tried to seek credit through other
sources, there is nothing to guarantee Mr S would have been better off or been approved for
credit elsewhere. So it would be difficult for me to say that Mr S still wouldnt have had
searches showing on his credit file.
Neither party has hinted to me why Mr S may have been refused credit on the two occasions
in question and this may be something that Mr S takes up directly with the respective lenders
in order to better understand what happened with those applications. Mr S should also make
sure that all the information on his credit file is correct and up to date.
Responses to my provisional decision
 
Experian replied to my provisional decision to confirm receipt and said they had nothing 
further to add for my consideration. 
Our service approached Mr S after my provisional decision was issued, but he did not reply. 
Mr S has not responded within the deadline that was given and I have no further 
submissions from Mr S. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with any further evidence or submissions, I see no reason 
to alter my conclusions from those I reached in my provisional decision. 
That is, I dont think Experian has done anything wrong here. There is no evidence Experian 
gave Mr S any advice. And while neither party provided any more detail around how 
information was presented, the suggestion of a 95% chance for a successful application is 
not a guarantee that a lender will approve a credit application. The decision to lend is with 
the lender, not Experian. 
As already noted, Experians CreditMatcher relies on information provided by the individual 
and the lender. So as previously suggested, Mr S should ensure all the information on his 
file is correct and up to date. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Ss complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman