DRN-2835699
The complaint
Mrs V complained that TM Advances Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs V was given a single loan by TM Advances as follows: 
Date Principal 
loan 
AmountTerm Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
payable
Loan 1 18/05/2016 £3,000 24 months £297.50 £7,140
Mrs V brought her complaint to us when she wasnt able to resolve it with TM 
Advances. She mainly complained that TM Advances provided her with a high cost 
loan that was unaffordable for her when she was already struggling financially. She felt 
that the interest on the loan was excessive and this has unfairly made repayment more 
difficult. And Mrs V was unhappy with the way TM Advances responded when she got 
in touch to discuss her payment problems.   
Mrs Vs complaint about this loan was assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought 
TM Advances did reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to provide the 
loan and that there wasnt anything it saw that meant it shouldnt have provided the loan or 
that ought to have prompted TM Advances to do more checking before lending to Mrs V. 
She didnt think that TM Advances had treated Mrs V unfairly in relation to her financial 
difficulties. And our adjudicator also thought that TM Advances had fairly set out the loan 
costs.  
Mrs V said she wasnt happy with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at her complaint. 
She mentioned that there was incorrect information in TM Advances final response 
letter. 
She has also told us that she would like additional time to collect and send us further 
information showing the full extent of her outstanding debts at the time she took out 
this loan which she feels will support her view that the loan was provided incorrectly.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether TM Advances did what it needed 
to before agreeing to lend to Mrs V.
Id like to reassure Mrs V that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. Ive looked at each 
of her complaints in turn.
Mrs V complained that TM Advances provided her with a high cost loan that was 
unaffordable for her when she was already struggling financially. 
TM Advances asked Mrs V for details of her income and monthly expenditure and 
carried out credit checks  which it has sent me. 
TM Advances worked out that the loan shouldve been affordable for Mrs V based on 
the information it had gathered about her income and expenditure. It allowed for her 
earning around £2,500 and when calculating her monthly outgoings, TM Advances also 
relied on the fact that her husband appeared to share the cost of some household 
expenses. Overall, TM Advances worked out that it looked like Mrs V shouldve had more than £1,000 left to spend after paying her monthly outgoings - so the loan 
repayments for this loan shouldve been comfortably affordable for her.
Ive seen the results of the credit check that TM Advances carried out before agreeing this 
loan. This showed that Mrs V had total outstanding credit of around £11,000 and 13 active 
accounts. She had opened two new accounts within the previous 6 months. This credit 
check showed a satisfied county court judgement against Mrs V  but that had been some 
years earlier. Also, she had two defaults showing which appeared to date back to 
2012/2013. It appeared that she was currently paying one loan that would be cleared in 
another couple of months. She had 4 credit card accounts  three of these were close to 
their limit. One credit card had been taken out around two months earlier  Mrs V hadnt 
used that card and she had around £400 available credit on that account. Her current 
accounts at the bank werent in overdraft. She had one big loan showing  she had 
borrowed £8,600 around 8 months earlier and this cost her £411 each month  the credit 
checks TM Advances obtained showed that the monthly repayments had all been made on 
time and paid in full and this account was up to date. 
The credit checks showed that Mrs V wasnt involved in any sort of arrangement with 
creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. She had no active county court judgements 
registered and no very recent defaults on her record. Although there was a record of multiple 
short term loans on her credit file, they mostly dated back to 2012/2013 and these had all 
been settled.
Ive thought carefully about all this information. I think its fair to say that I wouldnt expect the 
information TM Advances could see about Mrs Vs use of credit to have caused TM 
Advances to be particularly concerned. It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost 
loan to have a credit history showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and 
these things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a 
loan application. 
Bearing in mind this was Mrs Vs first loan, given the repayment amounts and what was 
apparent about Mrs Vs circumstances at the time, I think TM Advances was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the information it gathered about Mrs Vs financial situation to say that the 
loan looked affordable for her  and there wasnt anything flagged up in the credit checks it 
did that shouldve prompted a reasonable lender to think it needed to ask any more in depth 
questions or do more to verify information it was relying on before it agreed to lend this loan. 
Mrs V says TM Advances shouldve known she was in financial difficulties at the time it lent 
to her and shes sent us bank statements to support what she says. But Id expect TM 
Advances to decide Mrs Vs lending application based on the information it was reasonably 
entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the information it 
sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit search will. 
And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors have reported 
information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A lender might only 
see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be missing or 
anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same 
credit reference agencies. This explains why some information, including other short term 
loans, might not have been identified by a credit check done by TM Advances when Mrs V 
applied for this loan. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for TM Advances to provide this loan as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mrs V wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. I appreciate that Mrs V has been anxious to send us additional information to show that her 
financial situation wasnt properly understood and that this loan wasnt affordable for her and 
only present circumstances have prevented her from being able to do that.
Of course, its entirely up to Mrs V how she would like to present her complaint  and I will 
review everything that she wishes me to look at. But I can see that her circumstances have 
made it hard for her to make time to collate all the information she told us she wanted to 
send. So I wanted to explain why information I wouldnt reasonably expect a responsible 
lender to have found out before lending isnt relevant to a decision about whether the loan 
was fairly provided. I hope this helps Mrs V feel able to make an informed decision on how 
she wants to proceed.
Any additional comments or information should be sent by the deadline date mentioned at 
the top. I dont think it would be reasonable to delay making a final decision beyond this date 
bearing in mind that I must be fair to both parties. 
Mrs V felt that the interest on the loan was excessive and this has unfairly made 
repayment more difficult  
I think there was a large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate that 
Mrs V might now feel this has unfairly added to her debt problems.
But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mrs V applied 
for this loan and she had to actively engage in the loan application process. Taking 
everything into account, I think Mrs V was aware she was taking a high cost loan on terms 
she seemed happy to agree to at the time. I dont think TM Advances had any reason to 
think that Mrs V wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the loan and it went ahead only when 
it had provided information explaining the main loan costs and Mrs V said she wanted to 
proceed. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold 
Mrs Vs complaint. 
Did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way 
Mrs V is concerned that when TM Advances sent her income and expenditure forms to 
complete after she reported being in financial difficulty she needed to re-send the information 
when TM Advances said it hadnt received it and she is unhappy that TM Advances didnt 
cap interest and charges. Also, TM Advances appears to have mentioned some incorrect 
details when writing to her. 
I can completely understand that TM Advances getting things wrong in its communications 
was upsetting for Mrs V  especially when it reflected on her personal situation. I dont know 
what happened that resulted in Mrs V having to fill in and send the income and expenditure 
form again. Mistakes can happen from time to time. Asking Mrs V for up to date details of 
her finances is what Id expect a responsible lender to do  and if the information wasnt to 
hand (for whatever reason) then it was sensible for TM Advances to ask for this again if that 
was likely to be the quickest and most direct way to obtain the information it needed. It looks 
like TM Advances has already sent Mrs V information explaining that her loan isnt subject to 
the regulators price cap rules. Overall, I dont think that these things are reasons for me to 
award any redress.
Im sorry that Mrs V had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved difficult 
for her. I accept that in reality Mrs Vs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected 
either in the information she provided, or the other information TM Advances obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I dont think that TM Advances did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan 
to Mrs V. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that TM Advances acted towards Mrs V in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.
If Mrs V would like advice or assistance to help manage her money problems there is useful 
information and contact details on our website. 
I remind TM Advances that it has an obligation to treat Mrs V positively and sympathetically 
in its discussions with her if she needs further time to pay.  
I appreciate that what Ive said in my provisional decision will likely come as a 
disappointment to Mrs V and Im sorry. But I hope my explanations help her understand why, 
as things stand, Im not planning to uphold Mrs Vs complaint or direct TM Advances to take 
any action.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs V said there was no mention about when she asked to settle the loan that TM Advances 
told her she would still need to pay all the interest despite this being within the first couple of 
months. 
TM Advances told us it has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
I mentioned in my provisional decision why I didnt think that the high cost of the loan 
Mrs V took out was a reason for me to uphold her complaint. 
I am sorry that the way interest was applied to the loan made it difficult for her to pay it  
but the early repayment terms were mentioned in the loan agreement. And, as our 
adjudicator explained, its up to a lender to make its own commercial decision on whether 
it will agree to accept a lesser amount than the contractual amount owing if the loan is 
repaid early. I cant fairly uphold Mrs Vs complaint on the basis that she doesnt feel the 
early repayment terms were fair. In the event, Mrs V didnt repay the loan early  so I cant 
fairly say that she lost out as a result of the repayment terms offered. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
My final decisionFor these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman