DRN-3061496
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (trading as Mercedes
Financial Services ) (MFS) was wrong to apply charges when his finance agreement ended.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr A acquired a used car with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from MFS.
He agreed to repay the finance over three years. A third party agent collected the car in
2020 and, after it was inspected, MFS sent Mr A an invoice totalling over £3,000 for damage
in excess of wear and tear standards as follows:-
- Bumper front Scratched Over 50mm Refinish £210.00
- Door LHR Excessive damage Non repairable Replace £645.37
- Sill LH Dented Greater than A4 sized zebra board Replace £1117.42
- Qtr panel LHR Dented With paint damage Repair and refinish £260.00
- Bumper rear Dented Greater than 100mm Repair and refinish £260.00
- Carpet RHF Hole Holed Replace £257.50
- Door RHF Dented 50mm to 100mm Cold metal repair (enhanced) £90.00
- A post RH Dented With paint damage Repair and refinish £130.00
Mr A doesnt dispute the damage was present but he feels MFS should have told him about
these charges before he decided whether to keep the car. He asked MFS to return the car
after the inspection - because it made more sense financially to make the optional final
payment of £3,250 and purchase the car. MFS said it couldnt do that and didnt supply
information when Mr A asked about repair costs and how much the car sold for. Mr A feels
the process MFS followed at the end of the finance was unfair and its unreasonable that he
wasnt allowed to buy the car after the inspection.
MFS says Mr A was told about its vehicle return standards (VRS) at the outset - in the HPA -
and he was reminded about these in a pack he was sent before the finance ended. MFS 
considers the charges were applied in line with the HPA terms and conditions and it
shouldnt have to remove or reduce them or do anything else.
Mr A referred the matter our service and one of our investigators looked at the evidence. He
doesnt think MFS acted unfairly or unreasonably and hes not persuaded the complaint
should be upheld. He says the damage identified in the inspection report is chargeable
under the VRS and industry guidance - and the charges applied arent unreasonable or
excessive. He thinks the HPA makes it sufficiently clear that an inspection would take place
when the finance ended - unless Mr A chose to make the optional final payment and keep
the car. And Mr A should reasonably have been aware that he would be charged if the car
wasnt returned in an acceptable condition.
The investigator is satisfied that Mr A had the opportunity to get estimates and/or have any
damage repaired before the car was inspected. He accepts it might have been more cost
effective for Mr A to make the final payment and keep the car. But hes satisfied Mr A didnt
exercise that option in time and MFS wasnt obliged to give the car back after the inspection.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He made detailed submissions and 
Ive summarised these below:-
- the contract refers to the option to purchase but doesnt stipulate the sequence of
  events that must take place before this is exercised and its unfair of MFS to adopt
  the most favourable course at his expense;
- theres an implied term that he should have been given details of repair costs before
  he had to decide whether to keep the car or not;
- the car was repossessed without his permission and contrary to the law that says a
  court order is necessary where the consumer has made all the payments required
  through the life of the agreement;
- the HPA says if the car is returned in a manner not in line with VRS the consumer
  has to pay MFS costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle so he should
  only have to reimburse MFS for actual repair costs  not hypothetical costs;
- the HPA says MFS is entitled to any reduction in sale value as compensation but
  MFS hasnt provided any information about what the car was worth, how much it sold
  for and whether that was the standard market value  despite requests;
- the HPA sets out the compensation to be paid for proven loss, MFS hasnt provided
  proof of loss and this is just an attempt to claim extra money thats not properly owed;
- MFS misinterpreted the HPA to his detriment, didnt respond to requests for
  information and failed to take into account his long and loyal custom.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I thought it was fair to give 
the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond if they wanted to before I 
made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 5 August 2021. Ive set out what I 
decided provisionally and why below  this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Mr A brings his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because he acquired this car 
under a HPA. And I should make it clear at the outset that the role of our service is to resolve 
disputes between financial businesses and their customers informally. My job here is to 
consider the evidence provided by both parties, without taking sides, and decide what I think 
is a fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
Mr A told us that he accepts the damage set out in the inspection report was present 
Im satisfied I dont need to make any further findings about that. I think the crux of his 
complaint is that Mr A feels it is wrong that MFS applied charges when didnt undertake 
repairs and he wasnt told how much hed be charged for damage before he decided 
whether to keep the car or not when the HPA ended.
the return process
I understand Mr A has found what happened when the HPA ended frustrating. Im not a 
regulator and its not for me to tell MFS how to operate its business on a day to day basis. 
As far as I can see, the process MFS followed is fairly standard across the industry. And, 
looking at the individual circumstances of Mr As complaint, I cant fairly find he was mis-led 
about  or should reasonably have mis-understood  the vehicle return process.
The HPA that Mr A took out in March 2017 says he was obliged to return the car at the end 
of the hire period - or, if he wanted to purchase it, he could pay the optional purchase 
payment which was due 36 months after the start of the finance. And, when he signed the 
agreement, Mr A agreed to maintain the car in good condition (including the bodywork and 
exterior), having regard to the age and mileage and return it in line with the VRS.I think the VRS are set out fairly prominently in the HPA. And Im satisfied Mr A was also told 
that the car would be inspected and hed be charged for failing to meet the relevant 
standards. I think he would also have been reminded about this in the return pack that MFS 
sent out a few months before the HPA was due to end. And I consider it was up to Mr A to 
think about whether there might be damage that exceeded what was acceptable. Mr A 
accepts the damage set out above was present. I think this is seems relatively significant 
and he should reasonably have known this probably exceeded what was acceptable - 
meaning charges might be applied.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that MFS agreed to tell Mr A about the amount of any charges 
before he decided whether to exercise his option to purchase the car - and Im not 
persuaded such a term was implied. MFS displays a price matrix on its website which gives 
customers some idea of potential repair costs. I think Mr A could have looked at that in order 
to check the likely cost before the HPA ended - or he could have had the cost of repairs 
priced elsewhere. It would then have been open to Mr A to decide if he wanted to make the 
final payment and keep the car - or he could have paid to have the damage fixed to ensure 
the car was returned in line with his obligations under the HPA. And I cant reasonably hold 
MFS responsible for Mr As decision not to do so.
was MFS obliged to undertake repairs?
Mr A feels it is unfair that MFS hasnt paid for repairs or shown that the value of the car was 
reduced on sale because of the damage present. I realise this is frustrating for Mr A but, like 
the investigator, Im not persuaded that MFS was obliged to undertake repairs before the car 
was sold on.
I must have regard to relevant law and industry guidance (amongst other things) when I 
make my decision. I consider the industry guidance issued by the British Vehicle Rental & 
Leasing Association (BVRLA) is relevant here. This says (in summary) damage charges are 
applied when a car wasnt looked after as agreed under the finance, theyre intended to 
compensate the lender for the cost of rectifying related damage and they can still be applied 
if the lender decides not to carry out repairs before a car is sold. I think this is reflected in the 
HPA - which says repairs would be carried out at the discretion of MFS and I cant 
reasonably find MFS had to undertake repairs here.
the price achieved on re-sale
Ive given some thought to what Mr A says about the re-sale price. I understand hed like to 
know what the car sold for because he thinks the charges are likely significantly in excess of 
any loss that MFS incurred as a result of the damage. But, Im not persuaded that the 
amount the car sold for should be the sole factor in determining if the charges applied are 
reasonable.
I say this because I think a number of different factors are likely to affect the price a car sells 
for on any given day at auction (or elsewhere). I cant reasonably find the damage present is 
the only factor that a prospective purchaser would take into account when deciding how 
much to pay for a car. I am satisfied however that this damage probably would have an 
adverse impact on the re-sale price. I think its fair to assume that any prospective buyer 
would be likely to pay less for this car than another of the same model, age and mileage 
without such damage present. I think the charges applied are indicative of how much its 
likely to cost to put things right and I cant reasonably conclude that it was wrong of MFS to 
them, in the circumstances.
was it wrong of MFS to collect the car ?
In his response to the investigators view, Mr A suggested that MFS repossessed the car, 
contrary to the law, without his permission. I think hes referring to section 90 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 which (broadly speaking) provides that a lender may not, without the borrowers informed consent, repossess goods supplied under this sort of finance - 
where the borrower has paid more than a third of whats due. It looks as if Mr A had paid 
more than a third of the total due under the finance but Im not persuaded that the car was 
taken without his consent and Ill explain why.
As far as I can see, Mr A only raised this issue relatively recently. He didnt mention it in his 
original complaint to our service and Ive seen nothing to show that he raised it when he 
complained to MFS. If the car was taken without his agreement, Id have expected Mr A to 
have said so much sooner. I appreciate he told us the phone call to arrange collection in July 
2020 was out of the blue. But, for the reasons I have set out above, I think he was made 
reasonably aware of the process that would be followed when the HPA ended.
Im satisfied Mr A was told what his rights and responsibilities were, how the car should be 
returned and what he needed to do if he wanted to keep the car. He seems to have had 
some contact with MFS around the relevant time - albeit sometimes with difficulty, due to the 
impact of the pandemic. It looks as if the HPA was extended for short period and Mr A also 
confirmed that he was told how much hed have to pay to keep the car. I appreciate he was 
unhappy with that price and he wanted to speak to the dealer about acquiring a newer 
model. But, Ive seen nothing to suggest that he tried (or wanted) to make the optional final 
payment and keep the car, at this stage.
I dont think its surprising that MFS contacted Mr A in July to arrange to take the car back in 
this situation. And Im satisfied that Mr A seems to have agreed to return the car at the time
 he told our investigator that he said it was ok for the third party to collect it during the July 
call. I realise Mr A changed his mind after he received the bill for the damage but Im afraid it 
was too late to make the final payment and keep the car by that point.
I cant reasonably find MFS repossessed this car without Mr As consent in these 
circumstances. Taking everything Ive seen so far into account, Im satisfied that Mr A failed 
to return the car in line with his obligations under the HPA. I think MFS is entitled to be 
compensated for that. I cant fairly find it was wrong to apply the charges it did. And Im not 
presently persuaded that there are sufficient fair or reasonable grounds to require MFS to 
remove or reduce the charges - or do anything else.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or information (that I hadnt seen 
already) by 19 August 2021 explaining Id review all the available evidence after that and 
make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
MFS accepted my provisional decision but Mr A doesnt. In summary, he says:-
its not fair to rely on industry standards when they advantage the industry at the
expense of the consumer and the ombudsman service shouldnt endorse this;
the return process doesnt allow the consumer to make an informed choice about 
whether to purchase or not and consumers shouldnt be expected to have the same 
expertise as MFS in assessing damage and making valuations etc; its unreasonable for MFS to benefit twice by charging him in this way and making a 
similar gain from selling the car;
MFS hasnt incurred anything like these losses or it would have provided the actual 
the figures and calculation of loss like this shouldnt be allowed when figures havent 
been supplied  or the consumer cant have confidence that costs were incurred; 
MFS were not co-operative and allowances should be made for the difficulties 
presented by the pandemic  it was virtually impossible to get through to MFS which 
is not reflected in the provisional decision;
its correct that nobody told him there wouldnt be an option to purchase after any 
damage had been valued, this whole process required examination of the small print 
in detail yet hes been criticised unnecessarily for pointing out his informed consent is 
required before returning the car; and 
this outcome allows MFS to operate with impunity to the detriment of a consumer 
who has paid every instalment properly and who now stands to lose out despite 
having done nothing wrong. 
Im sorry if Mr A feels that I was critical of his raising the point about consent to the return of 
the car. I want to assure him that this wasnt my intention. I have a good deal of sympathy for 
the situation he finds himself in. I can see why he raised this particular issue and I wanted to 
explain why I didnt think it was wrong of MFS to take the car back when it did. For the 
reasons Ive given, I cant reasonably find MFS repossessed this car without Mr As consent. 
When I make my decision Im obliged to take relevant law and industry guidance (amongst 
other things) into account. And I cant fairly disregard the industry guidance Ive referred to 
above, in these particular circumstances. For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional 
decision, Im unable to require MFS to change its return process. This service isnt a 
regulator and we dont have the power to tell a business how to operate on a day to day 
basis. 
I understand Mr A feels he shouldnt be expected to have the same level of knowledge as 
MFS when it comes to assessing and evaluating damage. But, Im satisfied that MFS 
provided enough information about what was expected on returning the car. And I think it 
was open to Mr A to check the website and/or have the car inspected elsewhere by a third 
party before it went back - if he wanted a better idea of how much it was likely to cost to put 
the damage right. 
Im satisfied that Mr A failed to return the car in line with his obligations under the HPA and 
MFS is entitled to be compensated for that. I set out in my provisional findings why I cant 
reasonably find it was wrong of MFS to apply the charges it did. And, whilst I realise this is 
disappointing for Mr A, nothing hes said has persuaded me to change my mind. I remain of 
the view there arent sufficient fair or reasonable grounds to require MFS to remove or 
reduce these charges - or do anything else. 
I realise Mr A is likely to feel let down by my decision but hes not obliged to accept what Ive 
said  in which case it remains open to him to pursue this matter by any other means 
available. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman