DRN-4364195
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt protected her from losing money to 
a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, through August to October 2021 Mrs L made 29 payments from her 
Nationwide account to fund what she thought was a legitimate investment. She made the 
payments from her Nationwide account first to her Wise account, before moving them on 
from there to the scammers. The payments totalled £132,143.06.
Mrs L subsequently realised shed been scammed and got in touch with Nationwide. 
Ultimately, Nationwide didnt reimburse Mrs Ls lost funds, and she referred her complaint 
about Nationwide to us. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case 
has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mrs L and Nationwide my provisional decision earlier this month, explaining what I was 
minded to decide. Both parties have responded, and Im now ready to explain my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. Ive explained my reasons again below, with some further comment where I 
have deemed it appropriate to address responses to my provisional decision. 
Prevention
I accept these were authorised transactions even though Mrs L was tricked. So, although 
Mrs L didnt intend the payments to ultimately go to scammers, Mrs L is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks and other payment service providers are generally more familiar with 
than the average customers; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
Bearing this in mind, I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs L when it processed the relevant payments.
The first three payments
I dont think I can fairly say Nationwide ought to have been obliged to have paused any of 
Mrs Ls first three payments to the scam, pending enquiries, before following her instructions 
to send them. These were for relatively small amounts (£20.06, £501.50 and £501.50 
respectively). I dont think they ought to have looked sufficiently unusual to Nationwide to 
warrant intervention. 
I take on board Nationwide had already blocked a previous payment (prior to the £20.06 
payment) Mrs L tried (but failed) to make as a result of the scam (which was a £1,000 debit 
card payment to Binance, from where Mrs L had intended to send it on to the scam 
investment platform). I understand the point has been made that Nationwide ought not only 
to have blocked this first attempted payment but also spoken to Mrs L in more depth about 
what she was doing, when its possible all payments to the scam (including the first three 
payments) could have been prevented. However, Nationwide has explained this £1,000 
payment was blocked specifically because it was going to Binance. I dont think I can fairly 
hold Nationwide at fault for not immediately following this up further with Mrs L when it had in 
fact already blocked the payment. This might, though, reasonably have given Nationwide 
reason to be more vigilant than normal with Mrs Ls subsequent payment instructions. 
However, even taking this into account, I still dont think the first three payments ought 
reasonably to have looked suspicious enough to say Nationwide ought to have been obliged 
to have intervened before it executed Mrs Ls instructions to send them. 
The fourth payment
Ive not seen anything to show the amount of this payment was anything other than unusual 
for Mrs Ls account. Given the amount this instruction was for, and the fact that Nationwide 
had blocked that previous Binance transaction to safeguard Mrs L from potential fraud 
because of its general concerns, I think Nationwide reasonably ought to have paused this 
payment, pending enquiries with Mrs L, to check she wasnt at risk of financial harm, for 
example by continuing with her original plan of a crypto-related payment or payments 
(Nationwide was previously concerned about) through another method that might 
circumnavigate Nationwides block. 
Nationwide should have been alert to this possibility. By as early as January 2019 (so well 
before the relevant payments in this case), Nationwide ought reasonably to have known how 
scams like this work, including that customers often move money from one account in their 
name to another account in their name before moving it on again to the fraudsters. So even 
if Nationwide had seen the money was headed to Mrs Ls own account (with Wise), I dont 
think this meant it didnt still have an obligation to intervene. In its response to my provisional 
decision Nationwide has referred to previous points its already made and I already 
considered about this. But as Ive said, this didnt mean Nationwide didnt have an obligation 
still to intervene. 
  Im satisfied here, to meet its obligations to protect Mrs L from financial harm as a result of 
potential fraud, Nationwide ought to have paused this payment, pending enquiries with 
Mrs L, and to have called and spoken to Mrs L to check everything was in order before it 
allowed the payment through.
During the ensuing appropriate discussion I think Nationwide ought reasonably to have had 
with Mrs L before it allowed this payment through, I would reasonably expect Nationwide to 
have asked Mrs L who the payment was for, what the payment was for, and for the basic 
surrounding context, and to have then proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention 
to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam.
I have no reason to believe Mrs L wouldnt have been open and upfront with Nationwide 
about what she was doing. In which case, I think Nationwide ought to have quickly learned 
the basic background to the payment instruction: that Mrs Ls payment was to fund her own 
Wise account, from where she was planning to move it on ultimately to an investment 
platform recommended to her by someone on a well-known social media platform. 
As we know, sadly Mrs L fell victim to a clone investment scam, whereby scammers held 
themselves out as a legitimate company. These can sometimes be difficult scams for banks 
and other payment service providers, through reasonable intervention, to protect their 
customers from. In this case, however, I think the context around how it was recommended 
to Mrs L ought to have been a big red flag to Nationwide. 
Mrs L might very well have explained to Nationwide that she was aware the investment 
platform was registered with the FCA. But scams like this arent new to Nationwide. And it 
reasonably ought to have known there would be a very clear way in which Mrs L could be 
safeguarded against the risk of falling victim to a clone investment scam  which would be 
for her to make touch with the company through its official contact details on the FCA 
register, to check she was indeed in touch with the real company, and not clone investment 
scammers. Bearing in mind how concerned I think Nationwide ought to have been about the 
context in which Mrs L had been recommended this investment (which I have no reason to 
believe Mrs L wouldnt have disclosed to Nationwide upon appropriate questioning), of 
course also including the fact she had initially tried to pay them with cryptocurrency, I think 
this would have been an entirely proportionate recommendation from Nationwide, and that it 
really ought to have done this.
In this case, Im persuaded this most likely would have made a difference. After all, it was 
when Mrs L contacted the real company on its correct details she was told they had no 
record of her and that it wasnt them whod been in touch with her. And I think Mrs L most 
likely would have listened to and taken Nationwides warnings seriously and consequently 
not have proceeded with the payment. Im satisfied, therefore, that had Nationwide done 
what I think it reasonably ought to have done, Mrs L most likely wouldnt have made (and 
lost) this fourth payment of £5,015.
Payments five to 29
It follows that I also think Mrs L consequently wouldnt have made and lost these further 
payments.
Recovery
Ive considered whether once Nationwide was notified of the scam by Mrs L it unreasonably 
hindered recovery of the funds. Given I think Nationwide ought to have prevented all the 
payments but one to three, I only need to consider this in regard to the first three payments. 
However, the scam payments were sent from Nationwide to a Wise account in Mrs Ls name, from where Mrs L then moved them onto the scammers. I dont think its surprising 
Nationwide was unable to recover the funds in these circumstances. And Im satisfied I cant 
say Nationwide unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds, nor therefore that it can be 
held responsible for Mrs L not being able to recover the payments after theyd been sent. 
Putting things right
Ive explained why Im satisfied that had Nationwide done what it should have, the loss of 
payments four to 29, which total £131,120, would most likely have been prevented. 
Ive thought about whether Mrs L should bear some responsibility for this loss by way of 
contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). In this case, I 
dont think its unfair to say Mrs L wasnt as careful as she reasonably ought to have been. 
Shes said she began to get cold feet. Ive seen messages between Mrs L and the 
scammers, from which Im satisfied Mrs L reasonably ought to have considered other 
measures rather than just continuing to pay the scammers more and more money. And Im 
satisfied in the circumstances of this case it is fair and reasonable for Mrs L to share equal 
responsibility with Nationwide for the loss of payments four to 29. 
So I think fair compensation would be for Nationwide to pay Mrs L £65,560 (which is 50% of 
the total of payments four to 29).
To compensate Mrs L for being deprived of this money since the date she lost it, Nationwide 
should also pay Mrs L interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date 
she lost it to the date of settlement.
Ive thought about what Mrs L has said in response to my provisional decision and I remain 
satisfied that the compensation Ive set out is appropriate and fair.
Ive considered Nationwides points about Mrs Ls payments going first to a Wise account in 
her name before only then being lost to the scammers, and its question of why Wise isnt 
sharing at least partial responsibility for the loss. And I note its referred again to its 
submissions about this in its response to my provisional decision. However, whilst I note 
there were multiple parties involved here, I can only consider the only case open and before 
me here  which is this one against Nationwide (there is no case open here against Wise). 
Im satisfied for the reasons Ive explained above that Nationwide ought reasonably to have 
done more and that this caused Mrs L loss  and that in these circumstances the 
compensation Ive recommended is appropriate. If Nationwide remains unhappy about this, it 
may wish to consider taking the matter up directly with Wise.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mrs L:
£65,560; plus
interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement (if Nationwide deducts tax from this interest, it should provide 
Mrs L with the appropriate tax deduction certificate).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Neil BridgeOmbudsman