DRN-3660081
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund money she lost 
to an investment scam.
Miss S is being represented by solicitors in her complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts about what happened arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision.
The complaint concerns 11 faster payments totalling £15,960 which were made from Mrs Ss 
Halifax account to a cryptocurrency exchange between May and December 2021. Mrs S was 
able to make 8 withdrawals totalling £5,301.41 during that time. Therefore, the loss being 
claimed for is £10,658.59.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Mrs S made 
the payments using her security credentials, and so they are authorised. 
The payments Mrs S made werent sent directly from her bank account to the 
scammer. All payments were made via another account in her name with a crypto 
exchange which I understand she had control over. Under these circumstances, the 
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), 
which requires signatories such as Halifax to reimburse customers who are victims of 
scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances, doesnt apply.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the 
relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the 
law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in 
breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert 
a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
Ive looked at the operation of Mrs Ss account. I dont consider the disputed 
transaction amounts  which ranged from £100 to £4,000  were particularly unusual 
or suspicious such that I think Halifax ought to have challenged the payments. The 
first few transaction amounts were in keeping with her spending activity. And while 
two of the subsequent transactions were larger in value, they were made several 
months after the initial transaction. By that point, the merchant had become an 
established payee. Im also mindful that Mrs S received regular credits from the 
merchant in between the payments. 
Ive considered that the disputed transactions were sent to a legitimate crypto 
exchange. While the financial services regulator had warned about crypto exchange 
scams prior to Mrs Ss payments, buying cryptocurrency is still a legitimate exercise. 
And as Ive mentioned, Mrs S received eight credits from the crypto exchange in 
between these payments. Considering the regular credits, along with how spread out 
the disputed transactions were as well as the individual amounts involved, I dont 
think the payments were that remarkable such that they ought to have triggered 
Halifaxs fraud detection systems.
Ive also thought about the recovery of funds once Halifax became aware of the 
situation. Banks are expected to contact the beneficiary bank and attempt to recall 
the payment as soon as theyre notified of a scam. It isnt clear if that is what also 
happened here. Regardless, Halifax could have only attempted recovery from 
Mrs Ss wallet with the crypto exchange as that is where she sent money to from her 
Halifax account. I find it unlikely that any funds would have remained in Mrs Ss 
crypto wallet, given she converted them into cryptocurrency and sent that on to the 
scammer (albeit being duped into doing so). Im not persuaded that Halifax could 
have done more to assist in recovery of Mr Ss funds.
In summary, despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mrs S finds herself, 
I dont find that Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, I wont be making an award 
against it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman