DRN-3690477
The complaint
Mr I has complained about One Sure Insurance Limited. He isnt happy that his courier 
insurance policy was cancelled and feels his policy was mis-sold.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr I took out courier insurance through One Sure in February 2021 which included additional 
insurance products - goods in transit (GIT) and public liability (PL). After a few weeks the 
insurer asked Mr I various questions about his working practices and went on to look to 
cancel his policy as it felt Mr I wasnt working within a UK courier-based network and it was 
within a business it didnt recognise. The insurer informed Mr I of its intention to cancel the 
policy but Mr I contacted One Sure to cancel the policy himself just before the insurer 
cancelled the policy.
As Mr I wasnt happy about this he complained to One Sure. He said that he had a black 
mark against his name now which he wanted removed and he wanted compensation. One 
Sure explained that Mr I would have to address these particular issues with the insurer, but it 
said it would refund all fees and cancellation charges as a gesture of good will. However, it 
explained that Mr I would have to pay for time on cover and for the additional policies as 
these were still in place and he could still use them.
When our investigator looked into things for Mr I they also explained that One Sure wasnt 
responsible for the cancellation of the policy and any cancellation marker. But they did feel 
the policy was mis-sold as One Sure should have asked more detailed questions about Mr 
Is needs when placing the policy. So, they thought the full cost of the policy should be 
refunded, including the additional product costs plus interest for the time Mr I was without 
this money.
One Sure didnt agree, it felt Mr I chose to cancel the policy and that he should be charged 
for time on cover and his additional policies, so the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr I, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Is frustration here as he was just looking to take out a courier insurance 
policy for his work requirements as he had done over a number of years. And although I can 
understand why our investigator has reached the outcome they have I dont think that is fair 
either. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the various calls provided and considered them alongside all the evidence 
provided by both sides. But I agree with One Sure that Mr I was on cover throughout the 
early part of the policy and so, as the policy was live and the insurer was on risk, I think it is 
only fair that Mr I pays for this period of insurance. And One Sure have acted fairly by 
waiving all its costs, fees, and cancellation fees so I think it has acted reasonably here. 
Turning to the additional products Mr I bought (GIT and PL) I think it is fair for him to pay for 
these. I say this as he chose these products, which are beneficial to his work, and I havent 
been provided with any information to suggest that Mr I has gone on to get the additional 
products elsewhere. So, he can still use the insurance products for the full period alongside 
any courier insurance he has gone on to get.
Finally, it isnt clear from the information before me whether Mr I has approached his insurer 
about the cancellation of his policy and any marker placed against him in relation to the 
cancellation of his policy. However, given One Sure has made it very clear that Mr I 
cancelled the policy before the insurer cancelled I think it would only be fair for it to approach 
the insurer and ask it to provide confirmation that Mr I doesnt have any cancellation markers 
against his name. One Sure can look to do this and provide confirmation to Mr I but if the 
insurer refuses to do this for any reason then Mr I will have to advance this with the insurer 
directly.
Given all of this, although I accept One Sure couldve taken greater care to ensure Mr I was 
covered I feel that the insurer made the decision to cancel his policy and One Sure acted 
fairly in waiving all charges and only charging time on cover. And as Mr I is still covered 
under the additional policies I cant say One Sure has acted unreasonably in charging for 
these.
Replies and developments
One Sure responded to say that it had nothing further to add in response to my provisional 
decision. While Mr I didnt comment or respond initially. 
I did ask our investigator to chase Mr I as I wanted to ensure I had any further comment for 
completeness. He went on to say that if One Sure provides written assurances that any 
cancellation markers have been removed then the matter will be closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I maintain that One Sure acted reasonably in the way it dealt with Mr I. And 
as both sides have accepted the position outlined I dont propose to go over the finer detail 
again here. 
Given this, I remain of the view that although One Sure couldve taken greater care to 
ensure Mr I was covered I think it was the insurer that made the decision to cancel and One 
Sure acted fairly in waiving all charges and only charging time on cover. Mr I can use the 
cover provided by his additional policies so One Sure hasnt acted unreasonably in charging 
for these. And Mr I can approach his insurer direct about any cancellation markers if, for any 
reason, One Sure isnt able to get clarification of this on his behalf. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman