DRN-4086957
The complaint
The estate of Mrs F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made a mistake when it rejected a 
cheque Mrs F had issued. It believes the bank should have called her immediately to resolve 
the issue. 
The estate says a loss has been suffered as a result of the mistake and inaction. 
What happened
Mrs F held an account with HSBC and issued a cheque to her nephew for £6,000 in January 
2022. This was deposited but on presentation HSBC refused to pay it. HSBC wrote to Mrs F 
to tell her this and that the signature on the cheque didnt match the one held on its records.
Mrs F phoned HSBC on 28 January to explain the cheque was genuine. She understood 
that a note would be placed on the account and that if her nephews bank re-presented the 
cheque it would be paid. 
The other bank didnt re-present the cheque. 
Mrs Fs attorney visited a branch on 31 January, with a copy of a Power of Attorney (POA) 
for Mrs F. He requested the POA be lodged as soon as possible and the £6,000 be sent by 
alterative means, such as, by bank transfer.  However, HSBC said this wasnt possible due 
to the POA requiring a couple of weeks to be properly registered and by this point Mrs F was 
too ill to deal with this personally.
Mrs F passed away on 4 February and the estate took over this matter.  It explained that Mrs 
Fs estate was subject to inheritance tax, and it was for this reason shed written the cheque, 
so that the estate wouldnt need to pay tax on this element. However, the banks actions in 
not only rejecting the cheque but failing to call her immediately, had meant that tax was now 
payable which was a loss. It didnt think HSBC had handled the situation reasonably. 
HSBC looked into what had happened, but it didnt think it had made a mistake. It said it had 
correctly declined the payment because the signature on the cheque didnt match the one on 
its records. It explained it had security measures in place to pick up on this and appreciated 
that due to timings it wasnt possible to arrange an immediate payment by other means. 
The estate didnt think this was satisfactory and referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators reviewed matters but he didnt think HSBC needed to do anything.  
In summary, he said it wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to have returned the cheque and while 
it hadnt phoned Mrs F, it had contacted her promptly by letter which wasnt an unreasonable 
method of communication.  
The estate didnt agree and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. It  
highlighted the following points:
- There was nothing wrong with the  signature  other cheques had been paid in the 
past. In respect of the signature, it needed to be noted that Mrs F was an elderly 
woman and very ill. 
- It was entirely reasonable for the bank to call Mrs F rather than rely on a letter. In 
fact, HSBC had suggested it had attempted to call Mrs F but that call was 
unsuccessful. But it couldnt have actually called her because she was sat by her 
telephone the whole time. 
- HSBC should have acted with urgency on receipt of the POA and arranged an 
alternative payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment, so Id like to 
explain why. 
Its generally accepted that Mrs F wrote the cheque thats the subject matter of this 
complaint. What I need to decide is whether HSBC was reasonably justified in rejecting the 
cheque in the circumstances that it did. On this point, there are occasions where a bank may 
refuse to make a payment on a customers behalf. One of the situations where this might 
apply is where the bank isnt satisfied its an instruction from its genuine customer. 
Ive reviewed a copy of the signature on the cheque against that on the banks mandate. 
While the signatures are similar there is some variation. I appreciate (knowing the full facts 
now) this can be explained by Mrs Fs age and her health at the time, but I dont think it 
would be reasonable to expect the bank to have formed this judgement on presentation 
because what if it wasnt the case. 
The reasonable thing to do in these circumstances is to return the cheque with an 
explanation and ask the customer to contact it  which is exactly what happened here. The 
cheque was presented on 26 January and on the same day HSBC wrote out to Mrs F to tell 
her what had happened. It also invited her to contact it if she wished to discuss the matter 
further. 
I have noted the point made about other cheques having been paid without any problem. But 
the issue at hand here is the cheque that was written on 24 January 2022 and what 
happened with it.
I understand the estate feels HSBC ought to have telephoned Mrs F and it doesnt believe 
that it did. But what the terms and conditions of the account say is that if theres a problem 
with the cheque, the bank will endeavour to tell the customer as soon as possible. It doesnt 
specify what method that will be. Given this, I dont think a letter was unreasonable and that 
there was a requirement that it needed to be a call instead.
I understand the attorney visited the branch on 31 January with the POA hoping this may 
help to expedite matters and enable an alternative payment to be made. But I would expect 
the lodging of such a document to take a reasonable time so that the bank can complete the 
necessary checks and balances before accepting it. 
Im sorry to hear of Mrs Fs passing and understand this happened only a few days after her 
attorneys visit. Given the timings and Mrs Fs situation at the time, I dont believe the bank 
could have done more. And so, it wasnt wrong of HSBC to say it couldnt assist at that point.  Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded HSBC made a mistake. It follows that I 
wont be asking it to do anything to resolve the complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman