DRN-2313067
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that, until 2017, Mrs M held with Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Shes unhappy that Barclays recommended she take the mortgage on an interest-only basis. 
Mrs M thinks that this was unfair to her and that a repayment  or part-repayment mortgage 
 would have been better for her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, 
it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the 
outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs H took the mortgage in 2009; it was for a little over £182,000, on interest-only, and 
repayable after seven years. The point-of-sale documentation recorded Mrs Ms intended 
repayment strategy as the sale of her home to downsize in 2016.
When the mortgage fell due for repayment in 2016, Mrs M initially marked her home for sale, 
but in early 2017, repaid the mortgage in full from savings. In 2019, Mrs M complained that 
the interest-only mortgage had been mis-sold, saying she could have had repayment and 
that Barclays had benefitted from her paying a lump sum at the end of the mortgage.
Barclays initially said it thought the complaint was time-barred under our rules. It later 
consented to us considering the case. When we did so, our investigator didnt think Barclays 
had done anything wrong. Mrs M has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the final exchange of emails between Mrs M and the investigator after we 
explained that a personal conversation with her wasnt necessary to my reaching a fair 
outcome. 
The main thrust of the complaint against Barclays is that the mortgage it recommended was 
unsuitable for Mrs Ms needs and circumstances as documented in 2009. Thats what I have 
to decide and in reaching my conclusions, I can have no regard for the hindsight that 
subsequent events have brought. 
The starting position here is the point of sale documentation from 2009. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information 
is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it, and Ive done that here.
The information gathered points towards interest-only being a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs Ms needs and circumstances as documented in 2009. The mortgage term Barclays 
recommended was seven years; this was broadly to coincide with Mrs Ms intended 
retirement, so Im satisfied that was appropriate. But a seven-year term would have made 
the monthly instalments on a capital repayment basis prohibitively high; somewhere in 
excess of £2,200 per month. In contrast, the monthly instalment on interest-only was, at the 
rate quoted on the mortgage offer, a little over £340.
Of course, taking an interest-only mortgage requires a strategy for repaying the capital at the 
term end. In Mrs Ms case, shed told Barclays at interview that shed do that by selling the 
mortgage property and moving somewhere smaller. Current mortgage regulation frowns on 
such a strategy, but in 2009, repaying an interest-only mortgage by selling the mortgaged 
property was not at all uncommon. 
That said, it still had to be feasible in the individual case, for the recommendation to be 
suitable. In Mrs Ms case, I dont find selling and downsizing to have been unfeasible or 
unsuitable. She lived alone in a detached property with several bedrooms. There was a 
realistic prospect of her being able to sell it for at a price high enough to repay the mortgage 
and leave her sufficient equity to buy another home. And, of course, I cant disregard the fact 
that Mrs M initially pursued such a course in 2016.
During the time shes had the mortgage, Mrs Ms combined income from occupational 
pension and self-employment has been at a level where she could have made higher 
payments. With the benefit of hindsight, Mrs M may have been able to afford a capital 
repayment mortgage, but as I said earlier, I cant use hindsight here. 
Taking a repayment mortgage, or even part repayment/part interest-only would have 
required Mrs M to make dramatically higher payments every month, without fail, and I dont 
find that a recommendation that placed such a commitment on her (and exposed her to the 
risk of financial difficulties if she couldnt keep up with it) would have been suitable advice in 
2009. 
Having interest-only meant that when Mrs M found herself with surplus income after the 
mortgage started, she could have made ad hoc overpayments (because she wanted to 
rather than because she had to) that would have reduced the capital balance. 
The mortgage offer says as much in section 11, which I reproduce below:
11. What happens if you want to make overpayments?
No early repayment charges will be incurred for making lump sum reductions or 
overpayments to this mortgage.
Following receipt of an overpayment or a lump sum reduction we will immediately reduce 
the balance on which interest is charged. This means that you will receive the benefit 
straight away.
Instead, Mrs M accumulated substantial savings that ultimately allowed her to pay the 
mortgage off in full without selling and downsizing. That was Mrs Ms prerogative, but also 
her choice. Equally, Mrs M could also have approached Barclays during the life of the mortgage to say 
she was in a position to pay more towards reducing the capital and ask it to make a formal 
change to the mortgage. Barclays wouldnt necessarily have agreed to such a request 
automatically; it would first have had to make its own assessment of the affordability of the 
proposed change. But that could only happen if Mrs M approached the business in the first 
place
From reading what she has said, I get the impression that Mrs M considers it was incumbent 
on Barclays to monitor her situation and intervene pro-actively using its greater experience 
to suggest alternatives: in essence, provide unsolicited ad hoc advice. 
That would amount to a bespoke personal financial management service. Some financial 
businesses (Barclays is one of them) provide such services, but theyre agreed in advance, 
subject to a contract, and usually paid for by the customer in the form of a monthly fee. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest such a contract existed between Barclays and Mrs M.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman