DRN-3257031
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) stopped offering annuities in 2017. 
She says she would have transferred her policies to her workplace plan if she had been told 
of Zurichs plans at the time but, because it didnt inform her, Ms G says she missed the 
opportunity to do this. She says she lost out financially as a result.
Ms G also had an earlier complaint relating to charges for her pension plans. She stated that 
she was unaware that management charges would continue after she stopped paying into 
the plans. 
What happened
Ms G took out two pensions with Allied Dunbar (subsequently Zurich) in July 1994 and May 
1995 in order to provide an annuity at her retirement. She ceased contributions in November 
1997 and April 1998 respectively.
In October 2020, Ms G reached her initial intended retirement age of 55. In advance of this, 
in May and August 2020, Zurich wrote to her to set out her retirement options;
Option 1  Keep her pension where it was.
Option 2  Take an annuity. Zurich stated at this point that they no longer offered 
annuities but stated that they could connect her with an independent annuity service 
to help her find one.
Option 3  Flexible retirement income (drawdown). Zurich stated that she could not 
take flexible income from the plan and she would have to transfer to do this.
Option 4  Take a lump sum. 
Option 5  A combination of the retirement options to suit her needs.
Ms G firstly complained that she was unhappy that the management charges continued to 
be taken from her plan when she stopped paying contributions. She subsequently 
complained that she was unhappy at finding out that she was unable to take an annuity 
directly with Zurich, and unhappy that Zurich had not contacted her at the time they stopped 
offering this service in December 2017.  
Ms G states that she had changed job in September 2017, and had a 12 month window 
during which she could have transferred her existing pension plans into her new workplace 
scheme. She states that if she had been told by Zurich in December 2017 that they were 
ceasing offering annuities directly, she would have transferred into her new workplace 
scheme.
Following receipt of the letters outlining the retirement options in 2020, Ms G contacted her 
occupational scheme to request whether they would allow her to transfer her Zurich 
pensions to them. The date of this request is not known however there is a letter from the 
scheme dated 21 May 2021 stating that they would not allow this as it was not within 12 
months of Ms G commencing employment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator. I can see that the 
investigator has advised Ms G that part of her complaint falls outside of our jurisdiction due 
to the time that elapsed between the final response being issued to her by Zurich and her 
forwarding her complaint to this service. Under the dispute resolution (DISP) rules Ms G 
had a 6 month period in which to lodge her complaint to this service. DISP 2.8.2(R) says 
that: The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service: (1) more than six months after the date on which the 
respondent sent the complainant its final response, redress determination or summary 
resolution communication. 
In this case Zurich dealt with Ms Gs complaint relating to the charges for her pension plans 
in their final response letter dated 7 January 2020 however she did not forward her 
complaint to this service until 15 April 2021, comfortably outside the six month window. Im 
satisfied the delay in referring her complaint wasnt due to exceptional circumstances 
meaning I cant look at this part of Ms Gs complaint. As a result, I will only look at the part of 
the complaint dealt with by Zurich in their final response letter of 23 October 2020  Ms Gs 
complaint about Zurichs decision to withdraw from the annuity market and their lack of 
communication relating to this. 
Ms G states that she believes she has been financially disadvantaged by Zurichs decision to 
cease offering annuities and by them not advising her of this decision in December 2017. 
She states that if they had done so, she would have transferred her Zurich pension plans to 
her occupational scheme which she considers as offering greater benefits.
Ms G states throughout the correspondence on file that she wished to take an annuity with 
Zurich (initially Allied Dunbar) to provide an income in retirement. Zurich have confirmed that 
they ceased offering annuities in December 2017. Zurich state that annuities were not part of 
their core business and continuing this feature could not be commercially justified. They 
further state that their annuities were not competitive within the market. As a business, this is 
a decision that Zurich were entitled to make. They instead offer a referral to an annuity 
referral bureau, HUB Financial Solutions, which provides access to a higher rate than Zurich 
could typically offer, thereby improving the options available for their customers. Ms G had 
the option of using the HUB service, or sourcing an annuity herself through the open market 
or by asking a financial adviser to do this for her. Either of the options would likely provide a 
higher level of annuity in retirement than would have been offered by Zurich. So, in terms of 
potential annuity income, I am not persuaded that Ms G has been financially disadvantaged 
by Zurich ceasing offering annuities. 
Ms G has stated that due to Zurich not advising her that they ceased offering annuities in 
December 2017, she missed the 12 month window to transfer the funds from her Zurich 
plans into her occupational scheme. Its possible Ms G would have transferred had Zurich 
told her in 2017 that it was exiting the annuity market. But my view is that Zurich wasnt 
obligated to tell Ms G this,   especially given it had put in place alternatives for its policy 
holders - alternatives that would, likely, have resulted in policy holders being able to access better rates than Zurich would have been able to provide. So I consider Zurich has acted in a 
fair and reasonable manner. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman