DRN-3647928
The complaint
Mr P complains about AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit (AC) and their
decision to provide him with a loan in 2015, which he feels was irresponsible.
What happened
In May 2015, Mr P took out a loan with AC. But Mr P struggled to maintain his monthly
repayments. In 2017, AC sold Mr Ps account to a debt purchaser, who Ill refer to as B. Mr
P says he continued to make payments towards the account via a debt management
company he used to help him arrange his finances and he says around 2020, he stopped
receiving contact from B and so, assumed the full debt had been repaid.
But in early 2022, Mr P says B got back in touch and requested further payment. Mr P was
unhappy about this, so he sought legal advice. And Mr P says the advice he received
advised him he was able to complain about the initial sale of the loan. So, Mr P raised a
complaint with AC.
Mr P didnt think the loan AC provided him in 2015 was affordable. And he thought the
information AC had available to them made this reasonably clear. So, he wanted to the
capital loan of £5,000 refunded to him, as he was unable to calculate how much he had paid
towards the loan, including interest.
AC responded saying they didnt think the complaint was one they should consider. Mr P 
disputed this and referred his complaint to us. A decision was issued on 1 July 2022 
explaining Mr Ps complaint fell within our time limits and so, was one we could consider. So, 
our investigator continued with their investigation.
Having done so, they upheld Mr Ps complaint. They thought the checks AC completed were 
proportionate. But they didnt think AC assessed the information these checks provided 
fairly. Our investigator explained they had sought additional bank statements to cover a full 
calendar month and from this, they thought Mr Ps income was lower than he declared in his 
application. And they thought when Mr Ps existing financial commitments were combined 
with the new loan amount and Mr Ps other expenses, including his rent, that Mr P wasnt left 
with a reasonable disposable income. So, they thought AC shouldve realised the loan would 
be unaffordable and that they acted unfairly when approving it.
So, our investigator recommended that Mr Ps account should be restricted so that any 
interest and charges applied are removed. And if this led to Mr P paying for than he 
received, then this surplus should be refunded to him plus 8% simple interest from the date 
of overpayment. Or, if Mr Ps account still had a capital balance remaining, then B should 
look to agree an affordable repayment plan.
Mr P accepted this recommendation. But B didnt. They thought, based on their calculations, 
that Mr P would be left with a minimum disposable income of just under £350 after all 
expenses plus their loan were considered, which they thought was reasonable. So, they 
didnt agree that the loan has been approved irresponsibly and so, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Our investigator responded to Bs comments, explaining their recommendation remained the 
same. As B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did AC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did AC make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr P 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did AC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that AC didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Ps 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did AC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
There is no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
such as AC to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance 
being applied for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each 
application.
Ive seen AC considered the information Mr P provided in his application, which included his 
homeowner and employment status, income and existing credit obligations as well as 
existing expenses. And they compared this against the information reported to Mr Ps credit 
file. Considering the value of the loan against Mr Ps monthly income, and the monthly 
repayment of £303, I think the checks AC completed initially were proportionate. So, I cant 
say they acted unfairly here.Did AC make a fair lending decision?
But as well as ensuring the checks were proportionate, Ive also thought about whether AC 
assessed the information these checks provided fairly. And in this situation, I dont think they 
did. 
Ive seen the information AC received from Mr Ps credit file. And I can see from this 
information, they calculated Mr Ps monthly outgoings to his existing credit to be around 
£503.40, including estimated above minimum payment amounts on his credit card. So, when 
they added their loan payment, they estimated Mr Ps credit commitments increasing to 
£806.80. So, based on Mr Ps declared monthly income of £2,050, they thought Mr P had 
£1,243.60 remaining. And when his declared expenses were taken away, they thought this 
left Mr P with at least £384.60 disposable income, which they felt was a reasonable amount.
But Ive also seen the bank statement Mr P provided AC as part of his application, alongside 
additional statements to show his finances for the three months before the application was 
made. From this, I can see that the most Mr P was paid from his employer was just over 
£1,950, so £100 less than the amount AC used in their calculations. And Im satisfied this 
was shown in the bank statement AC received. So, I think any affordability calculations 
should be based on this amount, not the £2,050 AC have used. 
And in these statements, I can see that Mr P made total loan repayments of £862.71 in the 
month before the application was made, which included payments to payday loan providers 
which werent reported to his credit file. On top of this, I can see Mr P paid £40 to his credit 
card and £40 to his defaulted loan, meaning he had total outgoings of £972.71 to existing 
credit, before ACs loan was taken into account.
While I recognise not all of this information was present on Mr Ps credit file, it was present in 
Mr Ps statement that he sent to AC as part of his application. So, Im satisfied all this 
information was readily available to AC at the time. And even though AC say they 
understood Mr P was likely to have cleared his defaulted balance in the months after the 
loan application, I cant see anywhere that confirmed this. So, Im satisfied the £40 he paid 
towards it shouldve been included in the affordability calculations.
So, when ACs loan is added to Mr Ps actual credit commitments shown in his bank 
statement, his monthly commitments to credit increased to £1,275.71. So, Mr P only had 
around £675 left for living expenses, including his monthly rent. Mr P declared his rent to be 
around £550 in his application, and AC accepted this when considering his affordability. So, 
when this is taken from the £675, with ACs loan, Mr P would only be left with £125 for any 
further living expenses including food, travel, clothing, and any other bills he held. And I dont 
think this is a reasonable or affordable amount. 
Because of the above, I think that, had AC assessed the information their checks provided 
fairly, they shouldve been reasonably aware the loan was unaffordable to be repaid by Mr P 
in a sustainable way. And so, I think they acted unfairly and irresponsibly when approving it. 
Did AC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think that AC acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way, other than the way Ive explained above.
As I think AC have acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what I think AC should do to put 
things right.Putting things right
As I dont think AC acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think AC should do to put 
things right. Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr P back in the position he 
wouldve been, had AC acted fairly in the first place. 
In this situation, if AC had acted fairly, I dont think Mr P wouldve been given the loan. So, I 
dont think he should incur a financial loss because of this loan. But I also must recognise Mr 
P was able to utilise the loan and had the benefit of the capital balance. 
So, I think AC should deduct the capital balance from the total repayments Mr P has made. 
And if this leaves an amount owing to Mr P, I think this should be paid to him with 8% simple 
interest applied from the date Mr P made an overpayment. If a balance remains outstanding, 
AC should work with Mr P to agree an affordably repayment plan.
And as I dont think the loan wouldve been provided, I dont think Mr P should be impacted 
by this loan when attempting to apply for future credit. So, AC should remove any negative 
information related to the loan from Mr Ps credit file to ensure he is placed back into the 
position he wouldve been, had it not been given. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint about AvantCredit of UK, LLC  
trading as AvantCredit and I direct them to take the following action:
Deduct the capital balance of the loan from the total loan repayments Mr P has 
made. If this leaves an amount owing to Mr P, this should be paid to Mr P plus 8% 
simple interest from the date overpayment to the date of settlement: and
Remove any negative information recorded to Mr Ps credit file relating to the loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman