DRN-3751432
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt refunded her a transaction 
made from her account which she says she didnt make or authorise herself.
What happened
The facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I do not intend to repeat them in 
detail again here. However, in summary:
Ms M flew to Canada on 25 September 2021. Shes told us she was in Canada for a month 
and returned to the UK on 25 October. Upon her return, she checked her bank statements 
and noticed a transaction had left her Barclays account that she didnt recognise. The 
transaction amounted to £1,670.78 and appeared to be a payment to a hotel in America. The 
payment had been authorised using Ms Ms genuine card and PIN on 16 October 2021. Ms 
M said the transaction could not have been made by her, as she wasnt in America at the 
time. 
After noticing the transaction, Ms M realised she couldnt find her cardholder. Ms M says it 
was at this point she realised it must have been stolen whilst she was away. She hadnt 
noticed before, as she had been using another account and contactless payments on her 
mobile phone to pay for her everyday spending whilst she had been abroad. And she hadnt 
had access to the internet to check her online account either. Ms M says she contacted 
Barclays straightaway.
Barclays declined to offer Ms M a refund. It said it thought Ms M had made the transaction 
herself. It said there was no point of compromise for Ms Ms PIN, which was used to 
authenticate the transaction. And it said the activity on the account wasnt indicative of a 
fraudster gaining access to the account either. 
Barclays pointed out that there were two declined transactions, during the period Ms M says 
she was in Canada. These transactions were to a taxi company based in America. Barclays 
said this indicated that Ms M was in America at the time the now disputed transaction was 
carried out. It also said that there was a further transaction for £57.69 that was authorised 
using Ms Ms genuine card and PIN, on 30 October 2020, after Ms M says she returned to 
the UK, at a health and beauty store in London. Barclays said this indicated that the card 
had not been stolen in Canada as Ms M said and it was continuing to be used upon Ms Ms 
return. Finally, Barclays pointed out that Ms M had not reported the fraudulent transaction 
until nearly a month after she had returned from Canada. Barclays said that had Ms M not 
been expecting the transaction, she would have reported it sooner than she ultimately did. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Ms M brought her complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into things.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She also felt that Ms M had likely authorised the 
transaction herself. She agreed that the spending on the account wasnt indicative of a third-
party fraudster and she highlighted that Barclays electronic data showed that Ms Ms mobile 
banking had been accessed on both the 16 and 18 October 2020 - but Ms M didnt report the 
disputed transaction until 22 November 2022. She thought that had Ms M not recognised the 
transaction in October, when she logged into her account, she wouldve likely reported it 
straightaway rather than waiting over a month. She also highlighted that the debit card 
payment made in London after Ms M had returned from her trip indicated that the card had 
not been stolen as Ms M had said.  
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators opinion. She said the investigators view was 
inaccurate. She said the transaction that took place in London after she returned from 
Canada was a direct debit or subscription payment, not a debit card payment as the 
investigator had suggested. Ms M also asked for some more time in order to provide further 
submissions. 
Ms M didnt provide any further information and so the case was passed to me to decide.
During the course of my investigation, I asked Ms M to provide:
Evidence that the £57.69 payment was a direct debit or subscription payment that 
she had set up.
Evidence that she was in Canada at the time of the disputed transaction, such as 
airline tickets or account statements showing her everyday spending on her other 
account.
Her comments on the two declined taxi transactions in America.
Clarification as to why Ms M didnt tell Barclays that she had kept her PIN with her 
card when she initially reported the fraud  Ms M told us this information when she 
submitted her complaint.
Ms M did not provide the above information and so I have based my decision on the 
evidence I have available to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Barclays has acted reasonably when holding Ms M liable for 
the disputed transaction. Ill explain why in more detail below.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 
PSRs). The PSRs set out when a customer should be held liable for transactions which 
happen on their account and when they shouldnt. 
The starting position is that a customer is liable for authorised transactions and a bank is 
liable if theyre unauthorised. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer has 
authorised the transactions or not, the bank would be expected to provide evidence as to 
why theyre holding their customer liable.
As a result, my role is to weigh up the information made available to me by Ms M and 
Barclays and decide whether I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to hold Ms M 
responsible for the disputed transaction. My role is to decide what I think is most likely to 
have happened based on the evidence Ive seen. When deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive considered all the possible scenarios and 
decided, on the balance of probabilities, what I think is most likely to have happened. Having 
done so, Im satisfied that the most likely scenario here is that the transaction was 
authorised by Ms M. Ill explain why below.
Barclays electronic data shows me that the transaction was authorised using Ms Ms 
genuine card and PIN. When Ms M contacted Barclays to report the transaction as 
fraudulent, she didnt tell Barclays that her PIN had been written down and kept 
alongside the card. Because of this, Barclays rejected Ms Ms complaint as it couldnt 
identify a point of compromise for her PIN. It was only when Ms M brought her 
complaint to this service, that this new information came to light. I have asked Ms M 
to clarify the reason for this discrepancy. However, Ms M has offered no further 
comment.  As its unclear as to what happened here, I havent been able to place 
much weight on Ms Ms testimony that her PIN was written down and therefore 
accessible to an unknown third-party.
I also asked Ms M to provide me with evidence to show that she was in Canada at 
the time the disputed transaction took place. For reasons unknown, Ms M has not 
provided me with any additional information to support her testimony. So, I cant say 
with any certainty that Ms M wasnt in America at the time. And the two declined 
payments to a taxi firm in America suggest she was.  
Ms M had a significant available balance in her Barclays account at the time the 
disputed transaction was authorised. But had an unknown third-party gained access 
to her account, they wouldnt have known this, without checking the balance of her 
account. However, whoever made the transaction to the hotel appears to have been 
satisfied that there was enough money in the account to fund the transaction. 
Barclays technical data shows me that no balance enquiries were carried out prior to 
this transaction. This suggests whoever was using the account knew there were 
available funds in it and Im not persuaded that this was simply a coincidence.
In addition to the above, there were no further attempts to use the card after the 
disputed transaction  despite there being over £2,000 left in the account. Im not 
persuaded that had a fraudster been able to gain unfettered access to Ms Ms 
account, as she has suggested, that they would have left such a significant sum 
remaining. Generally, fraudsters drain the account of funds as soon as possible in 
order to maximise their gain. And Im not persuaded that a third-party fraudster 
wouldve failed to utilise the remaining balance - especially given that the card was 
active for over a month after the disputed transaction was carried out.
Barclayss electronic evidence also shows me that there were successful logins to 
Ms Ms mobile banking app on 16, 18 and 21 October 2021. I am satisfied that it was 
Miss M logging into her mobile banking as Barclays technical information shows me 
that it was accessed using Ms Ms registered device using her passcode and touch 
ID  her fingerprint. The login data from 21 October shows me that Miss Ms mobile 
telephone was in America at the time. This casts doubt on Ms Ms testimony that she 
was unable to check her account until she was back in the UK and that she was in 
Canada. So, being satisfied that it was Ms M who was logging into her account, I 
dont think its unreasonable to assume that having logged in, she would have seen 
that a significant and unexplained transaction had debited her account. And, not 
recognising the transaction, she would have taken steps to freeze her account and to 
contact Barclays. However, Ms M doesnt take any steps to freeze her card or 
contact Barclays until 22 November 2021  over a month later. This suggests to me 
that Ms M was aware of the transaction and was not worried that someone other than 
her had access to her account and her remaining available funds.  
Im aware that Ms M has said that the transaction that left her account after she 
returned to the UK on 30 October 2021 was a direct debit or subscription payment. 
And I asked Ms M to provide me with evidence to support this conclusion. Ms M didnt respond to my request. Regardless, Barclays technical data shows me that Ms 
Ms genuine card and PIN were used to authorise this transaction in store, in London. 
And so, Im not persuaded that Ms Ms card and PIN were stolen whilst she was 
abroad. To be persuaded of this, Id have to be satisfied that:
oan unknown third-party had been able to gain access to Ms Ms card and PIN 
whilst she was in Canada
othe unknown third party had then travelled to America to use the card
othe unknown third-party did not use the card again, despite having access to 
the account and it containing over £2,000 
othe unknown third-party then travelled to London to make a relatively modest 
£57.69 transaction leaving the remaining balance in the account 
I think the above is unlikely. Instead, Im persuaded that Ms M more than likely bought her 
card home with her and made this transaction herself. 
So, overall, I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that Miss Ms card was stolen by 
an unknown individual. I dont think its plausible that someone other than Ms M wouldve 
been able to access all of the things needed to complete this transaction and Im satisfied 
she wouldve been aware of it sooner than she now says. Im therefore satisfied the most 
likely scenario here is that Ms M has made, or otherwise authorised, the transaction herself. 
For the reasons above, Im satisfied Barclays have acted reasonably in holding Ms M liable 
for the transaction and I wont be asking it to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman