DRN-3777478
The complaint
Miss L has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund transactions she says she didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In early 2022, five bank transfers were made from Miss Ls Lloyds account using Miss Ls 
registered mobile phone.
Miss L says this wasnt her and she didnt know the recipient.
Lloyds investigated and held Miss L liable for the payments in dispute. They found that the 
payments had been made on Miss Ls mobile phone, which was the only registered device 
on the account, at her normal IP addresses, using her biometrics and password.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss L 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that there were some other disputed payments made via PayPal. But 
those did not go through in the end and Miss L didnt end up losing out, so I consider that 
matter to be resolved. Ill turn to the disputed online banking transfers in question.
Broadly speaking, Lloyds can hold Miss L liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that she authorised them.
Im satisfied from Lloyds technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Miss Ls 
genuine mobile phone, along with her biometrics and password. So I can see that these 
transactions were properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence 
suggests that its most likely Miss L consented to the transactions, or not.
Miss L confirmed that her phone was in her possession and wasnt missing. Miss Ls phone 
was the only registered device on this account, and shed registered it some months prior. 
There were no other devices that could access her mobile banking. There were no signs of 
unauthorised access to Miss Ls mobile app, and Miss L confirmed that she hadnt clicked 
any suspicious links or given anyone access as part of a scam, or anything like that. And the 
phone was locked using Miss Ls biometric Face ID  so realistically only Miss L herself 
could unlock it. So its not likely or plausible that anyone other than Miss L could have used 
her phone to make these payments.
Miss Ls representative now says she doesnt have the mobile banking app. That may well 
be the case now, but I can see that she definitely did have it at the time of the disputed 
payments, since Miss L used the mobile app for genuine, undisputed spending. And Miss L 
already confirmed in her previous testimony that she had the app at the time.
The disputed payments used Miss Ls password. And Miss L confirmed that she hadnt 
written her password down anywhere or told it to anyone. So its unlikely that anyone other 
than Miss L would have known it.
The disputed payments also used Miss Ls biometrics to log in. I understand there was some 
confusion around what type of biometrics were used, as Miss Ls representative pointed out 
that Miss Ls phone didnt have a fingerprint function. To clarify, Lloyds systems can only tell 
that the biometrics registered to the phone were used  it cant tell what type of biometrics 
they were. So for example, whether a fingerprint or Face ID is used, the entry is worded the 
same on the log. The use of the word finger in the entry is just a relic from when the system 
was made, back when fingerprints were the only form of biometrics and so the two terms 
were synonymous. Lloyds only ever said that the registered biometrics were used, and they 
said this consistently  they never claimed it was specifically a fingerprint.
Here, the biometrics in question were the biometrics registered to Miss Ls genuine phone. 
And they were the same biometrics which shed used to log in to her mobile app for her 
genuine spending and other genuine activity. So Im satisfied that these were Miss Ls 
genuine biometrics  from what shes told us, this wouldve been her Face ID. And again, it 
was not likely or plausible that anyone other than Miss L could log in using her Face ID.
The disputed transactions were made from Miss Ls normal IP addresses  again, the same 
ones she used for her genuine activity. This also supports the possibility that the disputed 
payments were made by Miss L.
While the disputed payments were going on, Lloyds sent Miss L two text messages, both to 
confirm that the new payee had been set up, and to ask her to contact them if she didnt 
recognise the activity. But Miss L did not reply to these texts or let Lloyds know things were 
wrong until after the fact. Miss L now says she didnt receive those texts. But I can see that 
they were sent to her correct mobile phone number  the same one she gave our service. 
I can also see that Miss L checked her account quite a number of times before reporting the 
matter to Lloyds. So it looks like Miss L was aware of the disputed activity while it was going 
on, but didnt report it to Lloyds until after it was finished.
To summarise, Im satisfied that Miss Ls genuine mobile phone, biometrics, and password 
were used to make the disputed payments. The payments were made from her usual IP 
addresses, and she seems to have been aware of them while they were happening. Based 
on the evidence, there isnt a likely or plausible way that someone could have made these 
transactions without Miss Ls consent. So the only likely possibility remaining is that Miss L 
consented to the payments  a possibility which fits very strongly with the evidence. 
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Lloyds to decline a refund in this case. 
This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Miss L to 
receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.Lastly, Ive also taken into account Miss Ls arguments around whether Lloyds should have 
done more to block or reverse these payments. But I can't agree that Lloyds should have 
blocked or reversed them in this case  as far as I can see, the payments in question were 
authorised by the accountholder.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman