DRN-3386255
The complaint
Mr M complained to HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) as he had problems receiving a 
replacement debit card. He also said HSBC stopped him accessing money in his account.
What happened
Mr M contacted HSBC about a transaction he didnt recognise on 6 October 2021. HSBC 
blocked his card and a new card was ordered the same day to go to his home address. Mr M 
hadnt received his replacement debit card by 16 October so he rang HSBC again and says 
he was told the replacement card hadnt been ordered. The call handler said theyd order Mr 
M a replacement card. This was received by Mr M and activated on 21 October. 
 
On 20 October, Mr M contacted HSBC shortly after midnight as he wanted to transfer the 
benefit due to credit his account that day. He was told the benefit payment to his account 
wasnt yet available for him to spend and the bank wasnt able to make this any faster.  
 
Mr M complained to HSBC about what happened. HSBC responded to say on 6 October a 
replacement card was correctly ordered to Mr Ms address. External factors must have 
affected the delivery as he contacted them on 16 October to say the card hadnt arrived. As 
the delivery of the card was outside of HSBCs timescales, the card was cancelled, and 
another was ordered. This is the card which arrived and was activated on 21 October. 
 
HSBC said, as their phone handlers are available 8am  8pm, only emergency services to 
deal with issues such as lost or stolen cards were available when Mr M phoned soon after 
midnight on 20 October. This means they dont have access to the same information if hed 
called them during their usual operating hours and may have led to some confusion about 
what he was told in relation to when the replacement card was ordered.  
 
HSBC explained the benefit payment is put into the account by a centralised payment run 
which takes place throughout the night. So, it cant give a precise time for when a credit may 
be available and, although this can be from as early as 1am, it can also be later. So, even 
though Mr Ms benefit payment was due to be in his account on 20 October, the funds were 
not yet available when he phoned just after midnight on that date. It noted, however, Mr M 
was able to make a transfer of £350 at 1.40am using the mobile banking app.  
 
HSBC paid Mr M £100 for distress caused by any poor service or incorrect information. But 
Mr M says he lost his phone and had to transfer money to someone else who refuses to give 
it all back. So, he wants £1,000 to replace his phone and for mental anguish.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint as she hadnt seen any evidence there was 
an error made by HSBC. Overall, she felt the £100 compensation paid was sufficient. Mr M 
disagreed with this and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He says hes 
inclined to believe what the lost card team told him and doesnt think his complaint has been 
investigated fully by our service as HSBC are getting away with lying to customers.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the investigator reached a fair outcome here. So, I dont uphold Mr 
Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand it must have been frustrating when the new card requested on 6 October didnt 
arrive. However, my role is to consider whether HSBC was at fault for this and I havent seen 
any evidence it was. I appreciate Mr M says the card didnt arrive - and I accept this - but the 
records for HSBC show it was ordered. So, I cant say its more likely the reason the first 
card didnt arrive was because of something HSBC got wrong. 
 
Mr M wouldve been frustrated if he was given conflicting or confusing information on 16 
October about whether a card was correctly requested before. I can see HSBC apologised 
and paid Mr M £100 for distress and inconvenience caused by any poor service or incorrect 
information. I consider this a fair way to resolve this part of Mr Ms complaint. 
 
In relation to the benefit payment, it was from an external provider and due to be available in 
Mr Ms account on 20 October. This is what happened by 1.40am. I havent seen any 
evidence HSBC couldve change the time it was available in his account nor that it got 
anything wrong or withheld the money from him. The call notes show Mr M phoned HSBC 
just after midnight to make a transfer using the funds he was waiting for and, although he 
wasnt able to access the funds at that point, he did make a transfer around an hour later. He 
also activated his card the next day. So, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint point on this issue.  
 
Having found HSBC didnt do anything wrong when issuing a new card to Mr M on 6 and 16 
October nor withhold his money, it follows that I dont hold HSBC responsible for his friend 
not giving him his money back nor his failure to pay a pawn shop in time to keep his phone. 
 
Taking everything into account, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this matter. I accept hell 
be disappointed, but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this matter. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman