DRN-2588627
The complaint
Mr B complains about the questions National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) asked him 
when making a large cash withdrawal.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties and have been comprehensively 
documented by our investigator so I wont repeat them again here. The facts are not in 
dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these 
reasons:
Generally, the rules a bank puts in place to protect its security and the security of its 
customers are a matter for it to decide and wont usually be something this service 
interferes with, but I can consider if theyve been applied fairly.
Victims of fraud and scams are often coerced into withdrawing large sums of cash
NatWest considers the withdrawal of large cash sums to be unusual when there are 
a number of alternative ways of making payments.
NatWest has a security policy in place which means consumers will be asked 
questions - including what the money will be used for - when making larger cash 
withdrawals. It says this helps ensure the customer isnt the victim of fraud or a scam.
Mr B was asked these security questions when he phoned NatWest to arrange a 
large cash withdrawal. He didnt agree with this policy and refused to answer the 
question about what the money was for and the so the conversation with the agent 
went back and forth. 
Im satisfied the questions Mr B was asked were proportionate, in line with NatWests 
policy and were asked in a professional and appropriate tone. The agent also let him 
know hed be asked the same questions when he went into the branch.
When Mr B asked to escalate the issue, I think the agent acted reasonably in warning 
him that the manager wouldnt be able to change bank policy.
From the calls Ive listened to NatWest didnt refuse to give Mr B the money
Mr B was unhappy he was asked the questions when he went into the branch but 
NatWests staff were acting in accordance with the banks policy and hed been given 
prior notice of this.
I think the branch managers reluctance to use a meeting room for health reasons 
and inability to social distance was reasonable in the circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied NatWests various agents were acting in line with the banks 
security policy and while Mr B doesnt agree with this policy Im also satisfied it was 
applied fairly in this case
I wont be asking NatWest to do anymore
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman