DRN-1302875
 
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter Partner) declined a claim on her 
travel insurance policy after some belongings were stolen from a car. Miss H is also unhappy 
with how Inter Partner handled her claim.
For the purposes of my decision, any reference to Inter Partner includes its agents.
What happened
In July 2018 Miss H had items stolen from her car whilst she was at a service station at 
approximately 3.30pm. Miss H was travelling in the UK heading on holiday to Wales. 
When Miss H tried to claim on her travel insurance policy, Inter Partner initially declined the 
claim as they said her baggage was left unattended and there were no signs of forced entry 
to the vehicle. Miss H disputed this and says that the items stolen were locked out of sight, in 
the boot of a car under a parcel shelf.
Inter Partner initially declined Miss Hs claim by relying on this exclusion of the policy:
3. Loss, theft of or damage to baggage contained in an unattended vehicle:
a) overnight between 9 pm and 9 am (local time) or
b) at any time between 9 am and 9 pm (local time) unless:
i) it is locked out of sight in a secure baggage area and
ii) forcible and violent means have been used by an unauthorised person to gain entry into 
the vehicle and evidence of such entry is available. 
Our investigator asked Inter Partner an opportunity to provide comment on whether they are 
declining the claim on part i) - where the baggage was and part ii) - how access was 
gained) or just part i). In an email to our service, Inter Partner have said the claim was 
declined as other items such as clothing were left on the hook in the rear of the vehicle and 
werent locked out of sight. 
Miss H complained to Inter Partner and they stated that the claim had correctly been 
declined. As Miss H remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator found that Inter Partner had unfairly declined the claim. This is because she 
thought that Miss H had locked the items stolen out of sight. To put things right 
she recommended that Inter Partner settle the claim in line with the policy terms, add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of the claim until the date of settlement and also pay 
an additional £50, making a total payment of £100 to Miss H for how theyve handled the 
overall complaint.  Inter Partner didnt accept our investigators findings. In particular, they said that Miss H had 
failed to follow the terms of the policy as luggage and other items were left on the hook and 
on display in the back of the car. So Inter Partner says she breached one of the terms of the 
policy. 
The complaint has now been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So I uphold Miss 
Hs complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Ive broken the two main parts to Miss Hs complaint under two headings below.
The declined claim
As outlined above, Ive also considered that Inter Partner arent relying on the second part of 
the term when declining the claim, so I wont make a finding in relation to that term. 
This policy defines secure baggage area as:
 - means any of the following, as and where appropriate: 
a) The locked dashboard, boot or luggage compartment of a motor vehicle 
b) The locked luggage compartment of a hatchback vehicle fitted with a lid closing off the 
luggage area, or of an estate car with a fitted and engaged tray or roller blind cover behind 
the rear seats 
c) The fixed storage units of a locked motorised or towed caravan 
d) A locked luggage box, locked to a roof rack which is itself locked to the vehicle roof.
Inter Partner have said Miss H didnt have her luggage out of sight as some items were 
hanging in the back of the car. Miss H has said that the luggage and personal items stolen 
were locked in a parked vehicle, in the boot, out of sight under a parcel shelf. Ive seen 
nothing to make me doubt Miss Hs testimony and note that shes been consistent 
throughout her complaint. 
Whilst Ive noted Inter Partners point about items hanging in the back of the car, these arent 
the items that were stolen or, therefore, part of this claim. 
Miss H, in my opinion, had taken reasonable care to secure the items that were later stolen 
in a secure baggage area  her boot - before leaving her vehicle locked. This is in line with 
the policy terms. 
It follows that I think Inter Partner have unfairly declined Miss Hs claim. Ill explain below 
what I require Inter Partner to do to put things right. 
Customer service Inter Partner accepted that they prematurely declined this claim in a letter sent to Miss H on 
24 October 2018. They offered £50 for any distress and inconvenience caused by this. Our 
investigator recommended that a further £50 be awarded for the service she received when 
Inter Partner were dealing with her complaint.
I think that the additional award is fair to recognise that the customer service provided by 
Inter Partner should have been better. The updates provided to Miss H could have been 
more frequent and clearer to keep her informed about what was happening. 
So I think that Inter Partner should pay Miss H the additional £50 our investigator 
recommended for the distress and inconvenience caused. This means that, overall, the total 
amount awarded for compensation is £100.
Putting things right
Inter Partner should consider Miss Hs claim in line with the remaining terms, conditions and 
limits of the policy. If they make a cash settlement they should also pay Miss H interest on 
that sum at the simple rate of 8% per year. This should be calculated from the date Miss H 
made her claim to the date payment is made to her.*
Inter Partner should also pay Miss H £50 in addition to the £50 theyve already offered. So, 
to be clear, £100 in total compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do what Ive set out under the heading Putting 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman