DRN-4266531
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt open fixed rate savers accounts and hadnt 
removed his former wifes name from his existing savings accounts. He wants her name to 
be removed and the savers opened with interest paid from 21 January 2021.  
What happened
In March 2022 Mr J wrote to HSBC that it hadnt opened the savers accounts he requested 
on 21 January 2021 and so it should pay him the interest that would have been due on his 
investment of £195,000 since then. He also requested the transfer of £8,000 from his current 
account to his savings account, and that four fixed rate savers be opened totalling £205,000. 
Mr J said HSBC transferred the £8,000 but hadnt opened the fixed rate savers despite his 
letter and subsequent calls and he felt HSBC might be intentionally depriving older people of 
higher interest rates. He said HSBC should pay him the interest that would have been due 
on his investment of £205,000 from April 2022. Mr J also requested his former wifes name 
be removed from the savings account that HSBC had told him this would happen in 2017.
Mr J said there was no further progress and so he complained to HSBC again in December 
2022. HSBC explained how he could open accounts online or by phone, but said there was 
nothing to show he had made an account application since January 2021, and it declined to 
backdate the interest. HSBC offered Mr J £200 compensation for the service hes received.  
Mr J wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and referred his complaint to our service. He 
said when he tried to open the fixed rate savers account in January 2021 HSBC said theyd 
need to call him back with wait time around 11 days. He said HSBC told him to open the 
accounts online, but he was concerned about online banking and wanted paper statements. 
Mr J said hed made numerous calls to HSBC between February 2021 and February 2022. 
He said HSBC told him in June 2021 that he couldnt open the accounts over the phone. 
HSBC provided call recordings including a call from March 2022. Its agent tells Mr J that if 
he is having difficulty opening an account online were definitely able to do it over the phone, 
thats fine. Mr J responded that he would call back during opening hours and checks what 
these are. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said HSBC hadnt opened Mr 
Js accounts in March 2022 and gave conflicting information about opening a savers account 
by phone, and hadnt actioned the name change. She said HSBC should help Mr J open the 
savers accounts by phone, but didnt think it should pay backdated interest from March 2022 
as he hadnt funded the accounts. She thought HSBC should backdate interest from January 
2021 to March 2022 as this was when Mr J was incorrectly told he couldnt open an account 
over the phone. She said HSBC should pay Mr J further compensation of £200. 
HSBC accepted this outcome and calculated the backdated interest at £378.68. Mr J did not 
agree saying the investigator hadnt addressed HSBCs failure to open a fixed rate saver as 
requested in March 2022. He wants the interest payable on the fixed saver from March 2022 
for one year as well as the interest from the previous product the investigator had awarded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J, who lives abroad, said HSBC failed to respond properly to his requests to open savers 
accounts and provided poor customer service. Mr J has recently provided some more 
information, including messages, statements and medical notes. Mr J said he will accept 
HSBCs offer of interest on his original account application so long as tax isnt deducted. 
Ive looked at HSBCs records to see if it treated Mr J fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with his requests.
Im pleased that HSBC has agreed to pay Mr J the interest that would have accrued in line 
with its historical interest rates up from January 2021 until March 2022. I think this is fair as it 
was during this period that Mr J was incorrectly told by HSBC that he couldnt open an 
account over the phone. Mr J has said that he would accept the payment of this sum 
(£473.34 gross) as reasonable. 
Mr J also wants interest paid for the period of March 2022 onwards. I can see that Mr J 
wrote to HSBC in March 2022 as it was unhelpful over the phone. I agree with the 
investigator that HSBC failed to follow Mr Js written request that it open the fixed rate savers 
accounts, in fact it doesnt appear to have responded at all, although it followed his 
instruction to transfer £8,000 of his funds. I think HSBC should have sent a written response 
to Mr J about opening a savings account. However, Mr J spoke to HSBC call centres by 
phone that month and was told he could open an account by phone, and he said he would 
call back and do this. 
However, from what Ive seen, although Mr J was aware from March 2022 that he could 
open the savers accounts by phone he didnt pursue this. Ive looked carefully at HSBC and 
Mr Js records of communications, but I havent seen any evidence to show that there were 
any further calls from Mr J from March 2022 to set up the accounts. Mr J has recently added 
that he gave up on HSBC at this time and was suffering from significant medical problems. 
Mr J says he was given a number to call to open the account in February 2023 and couldnt 
do so before this. And so he wants the interest backdated on the savers accounts from 
March 2022 to April 2023. Mr J has provided medical evidence that shows he was going 
through a difficult time during 2022, and I sympathise with him, but I think he could have 
pursued the accounts opening from March 2022 and needed to do so to ensure his funds 
were earning interest. This means I cant hold HSBC responsible for its failure to set up his 
accounts after this point and I haven't asked HSBC to backdate interest from March 2022 to 
date.
Mr J said he felt sure there are other older people who have difficulties with the internet. And 
expecting an account holder who lives abroad to go to their branch to transact business is 
totally unreasonable. I agree that he has had barriers put in his way by HSBC to obtaining 
his desired accounts and suffered some poor and misleading communications. He has also 
suffered health problems that have made it more difficult for him to communicate. Mr J also 
says that HSBC has yet to remove his former wifes name from the savers account. 
Mr J has also requested that we require HSBC to pay him the one-year term fixed rate saver 
interest from 23 March 2023 onwards. He has said that he was in a position to open a fixed 
rate saver from 21 February 2023 following receipt of HSBCs letter giving him a call centre 
number. But he didnt do so as he didnt want to compromise any legal action he may wish to take. Mr J hasnt brought this loss of interest as a complaint to HSBC yet and so it is not 
something we can consider. 
 
Putting things right
So far as Im aware, Mr J still hasnt opened the savers accounts and so HSBC needs to 
assist him in doing so by arranging this by means of a phone call. HSBC should also ensure 
it has removed Mr Js former wifes name from all relevant accounts. 
I agree with the investigator that HSBC has communicated very poorly with Mr J and should 
pay him £200 further compensation for the impact of the poor service has had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above, the complaint is upheld in part. I require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to pay him the backdated interest of £378.68 on the savers account up to March 2022. 
This sum has been reduced by 20% in line with UK tax rates. However, Mr J states he is not 
a UK taxpayer and so once HSBC is satisfied about this it should refund him the remaining 
20% of the interest amounting to £94.66.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should, as soon as possible, remove Mr Js former wifes name from the 
saver account as previously requested. I also require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr J further 
compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused by its poor 
service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman