DRN-1519646
The complaint
Mr G's complaint is about a default on his credit file. The default relates to an account Mr G 
had with Shop Direct Finance Company Limited. Mr G complains that the notice was 
duplicated, which led to him losing out on a job he had been offered by a bank.
What happened
Shop Direct sold Mr Gs account, which had fallen into default, to another company in 
October 2017. Shop Direct have told us that a system issue led to them duplicating the 
default on Mr Gs credit file. They say they put this right in August 2019, when Mr G raised it 
with them. 
Before it was corrected, Mr G's credit file showed three defaults totalling £10,032. Without 
the duplicate amount of £4,751, the total would be £5,281. Mr G says that because the total 
owed before correction was more than £6,000, a bank that had offered him a job decided to 
withdraw their offer. He is also not happy with how long it took Shop Direct to fix the mistake.
Mr G complained in August 2019. His address had changed since 2017, so Shop Direct 
wanted some documents from him to prove he lived at the new address before they 
responded to the complaint. Mr G sent these to Shop Direct by email in September, but then 
heard nothing more. He came to us eight weeks after raising his complaint. 
Our investigator found Shop Direct had caused the default to be duplicated, but felt the 
defaults without this were at a level the bank would still have been concerned with. So the 
investigator didn't link the lost job offer to the mistake.
But the investigator could see the mistake left Mr G feeling he'd been treated unfairly. The 
investigator said compensation of £250, rather than the £100 Shop Direct had suggested 
when our investigation started, would suitably recognise the impact of the mistake on Mr G.
Shop Direct accepted this, but Mr G hasn't. Mr G feels he's lost out on a figure more like 
£15,000 due to Shop Direct's mistake, and feels the compensation suggested is an insult.
I've looked at the details received by our investigation. I don't want to insult anyone. But I 
shall explain below why, in my view, compensation of £250 is suitable in this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted, Shop Direct accept they put a duplicate default on Mr G's credit record. This was 
unreasonable. They have a duty to make sure the information they put on someone's record 
is accurate. The question remaining is what needs to be done to put that right.Putting things right
Mr G's main concerns focus on the job offer that he believes was taken away because of the 
incorrect entry on his credit file. I note that Shop Direct told Mr G on 5 August 2019 that 
theyd asked for the duplicate entry to be removed. This is the first working day after 2 
August, when Mr G first spoke to them about the issue. 
I appreciate Mr G's comments that the time taken to resolve this matter was too long. But I 
find the one working day turnaround here was reasonable, particularly as Shop Direct had 
not heard from Mr G for over two years since he defaulted on his account. The time it took 
the credit reference agency to then update its file isnt a matter within Shop Directs control. 
And it was open to Mr G to show his potential employer Shop Directs email on 5 August to 
see if that made a difference to their decision.
Also, I've seen that a recruitment company dealing with Mr G's job application told our 
investigator "had the value [of the combined defaults] been under £5,000 we would have 
been able to proceed". But even without Shop Direct's mistake the total of the defaults on Mr 
G's credit file was more than £5,000.
I appreciate the bank's decision to withdraw the job offer was disappointing for Mr G, and 
meant he had to sell his car and move in with his parents to best manage his finances. But 
that seems likely to have been the result even if Shop Direct didn't make the mistake here. 
Mr G had defaults over £5,000, so based on what the recruitment company said I think he 
was always going to need to discuss these with the bank, and have them considered before 
the job was confirmed.
With this in mind, I don't see that Shop Direct need to do anything to address any perceived 
loss or to remedy the upset and disappointment that Mr G feels about the decision that the 
bank made. 
But I can see how the mistake created the feeling for Mr G that Shop Direct had caused the 
problems with the job. And although they seem to have dealt with the problem quickly, Shop 
Direct's lack of response to the complaint hasnt helped to ease the disappointment for Mr G. 
I can appreciate that Shop Direct were ultimately trying to protect their customers private 
information, but to have then missed Mr Gs email with the details they wanted left him 
understandably feeling they werent being reasonable when handling his complaint. 
Shop Direct put forward an offer of compensation when this matter came to us. The 
investigator then said a total figure of £250 would recognise the upset caused for Mr G by 
the mistake. I agree with this figure. It reflects that were not trying to compensate for the 
loss of the job offer, which seems like it would always have happened given Mr G's historic 
defaults. But it recognises there was an error in the record of those defaults that leaves Mr G 
feeling things might have been different. And it reflects that Shop Directs process for 
confirming Mr Gs details when he complained could have done more to help ease the upset 
Mr G was feeling. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr G's complaint. To put this matter right, Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited should pay £250 to Mr G in recognition of the trouble and upset 
their error added to his situation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.Paul Mellor
Ombudsman