DRN-3499940
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt fully settled a claim he made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a travel insurance policy through a bank.
In June 2021, Mr B booked a multi-centre holiday abroad. On 13 July 2021, he flew from the 
UK to a country Ill call T. On 26 July 2021, he flew from T to a country Ill call N. And on 27 
July 2021, he was due to fly from N to A.
However, as a result of border restrictions which had been imposed by As government due 
to Covid-19, Mr B wasnt able to fly from N to A. Thats because N was part of the Schengen 
Area and As government had closed its borders to UK nationals whod transited through the 
Schengen Area within the last 14 days. The airline therefore flew Mr B back to T. 
Unfortunately, Mr B suffered two panic attacks as a result of the situation and required 
medical assistance from Avivas medical assistance team. He was seen by doctors in T and 
was prescribed medication.
Mr B didnt want to return to the UK from T. Thats because given travel restrictions in the 
UK, hed need to quarantine for 10 days in a government hotel. This wouldve cost Mr B 
around £1750 and Mr B was also concerned that being isolated in a hotel would cause 
further panic attacks. So he travelled to a country Ill call L (as there was no UK requirement 
to quarantine in a government hotel on return from L) and then back to the UK. He made a 
claim for both his medical costs and the costs he incurred in rearranging his travel plans and 
returning to the UK.
Aviva agreed to cover Mr Bs medical expenses. But it didnt agree to cover any of the costs 
Mr B had incurred in rearranging his travel and accommodation after hed been denied travel 
from N to A. Thats because it said As government had imposed the relevant border 
restrictions in March 2020. So it felt that these had been a known event when Mr B booked 
his trip. Known events were specifically excluded from policy cover. But it acknowledged that 
its assistance team had provided some conflicting information, so it offered Mr B £150 
compensation and the costs of his calls.
Mr B was unhappy with Avivas position and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Aviva had treated Mr B fairly. She felt itd been fair for Aviva to rely 
upon the known events exclusion to turn down Mr Bs travel and accommodation costs 
claim. And while she acknowledged that Avivas assistance team had given Mr B conflicting 
information on the phone calls, she didnt think Mr B had lost out financially as a result. And 
she thought the compensation Aviva had already offered Mr B was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr B disagreed. He queried whether the investigator had listened to calls between Avivas 
team and him, as hed been told that his costs would be covered. He also told us that Aviva 
hadnt paid his medical expenses.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I think Aviva has treated him fairly and 
Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Bs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Aviva treated him fairly.
The policy terms
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Aviva. Its clear that Mr B had to rearrange his trip plans because he wasnt 
allowed to board his pre-booked flight from N to A. I dont doubt what a frustrating and 
stressful situation this mustve been for him. And I can understand why Mr B wanted Aviva to 
pay the costs of the travel and accommodation rearrangements he had to make. But Aviva 
relied on the following contract term to turn down this part of Mr Bs claim:
Known events
We wont cover
There is no cover in relation to any event, incident or circumstances if, at the time you 
purchased this Pack or booked your trip (whichever is later), you (or the insured person) 
knew that, or you could reasonably be expected to have known that
 the event or incident had already occurred or was going to occur; or
 the circumstances existed, or were going to exist,
and the event, incident or circumstances could reasonably be expected to affect your (or the 
insured persons) travel plans.
For example
There is no cover for cancellation of your trip if your travel plans are disrupted because 
flights are cancelled or any government or authority closes their borders, or imposes 
restriction of movement and these cancellations or restrictions were in place or had been 
announced at the time you purchased this Pack or booked your trip (whichever is later).
So Ive gone on to think about whether I think it was fair for Aviva to rely on this term to 
decline part of Mr Bs claim.
Mr B booked his trip and took out the travel insurance policy in June 2021. On 16 March 
2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) had advised UK nationals 
against travel to A. Thats because As government had closed its borders to, amongst 
others, UK nationals who had entered or transited through a Schengen Area country in the 
previous 14 days. Mr Bs flight arrangements had included a stopover and transit through N 
 a Schengen Area country. At the point Mr A booked his flights to A, these restrictions had been in place for around 15 
months. So I think it was fair for Aviva to conclude that these restrictions had already been in 
place both at the time the insurance was purchased and Mr As trip was booked. And given 
the circumstances and the widely-reported impact of Covid-19 on international travel, I think 
it wouldve been reasonable for Mr A to check the FCDO advice relating to A before making 
flight arrangements. This means I think it was reasonable for Aviva to consider that Mr A 
ought reasonably to have known about these restrictions and that they could significantly 
affect his plans. As such then, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr Bs 
travel and accommodation costs werent covered.
Aviva did agree to cover Mr Bs medical expenses, which directly related to his panic 
attacks. Im satisfied that this was appropriate in the circumstances. Mr Bs told us that Aviva 
hasnt yet paid these costs. Aviva said that it would pay the medical expenses which had 
already been evidenced; but if there were other medical costs, Mr B would need to submit 
these to it for consideration. 
For completeness, Id add that I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mr 
Bs initial hotel stays following his return to T werent medical expenses. I say that because 
once Mr B had been refused boarding onto the flight bound for A, he always needed to make 
alternative travel and accommodation arrangements. So I think his hotel costs were incurred 
as a result of As border restrictions rather than as a result of the panic attacks he 
unfortunately suffered.
Avivas service
Its clear that Mr B feels strongly that given the misleading and conflicting information he was 
given by Avivas assistance team about the available cover, it should meet his costs. Like 
our investigator, Ive listened to the relevant calls between Aviva and Mr B. I dont dispute 
that he was provided with conflicting and misleading information and I dont think his 
expectations were necessarily well-managed at points.
I also need to bear in mind though that I think much of the cause of this was because Avivas 
agents were confused about whether or not Mr Bs claim was for medical reasons. And I also 
need to think about whether I think any misleading information given by Avivas call handlers 
led Mr B to lose out financially. Based on all Ive seen, I dont think it did, as Ill go on to 
explore.
As Ive set out above, once Mr Bs trip plans had been effectively ended when he couldnt 
travel to A, he would always have needed to make alternative arrangements which werent 
covered by the policy terms. Mr A decided against returning directly to the UK from T as he 
didnt wish to quarantine in a government hotel. Had he done so, hed have incurred costs 
for both his flights and his stay in quarantine. Instead, Mr B ultimately chose to fly on to L, 
where he stayed until his return to the UK. Mr B got in touch with the assistance team on 27 
July and was ultimately told he wasnt covered by late afternoon on 28 July 2021 (although I 
note that he was told during one call on the morning of 27 July 2021 that his claim was 
unlikely to be covered by the policy). At this point, hed incurred costs of a hotel stay in T. 
Even if I took the view that hed have flown on to L sooner though had he known with 
reasonable certainty that this costs wasnt covered, I dont think I could fairly find that he lost 
out financially as a result. Thats because hed still have had to incur costs in flying to L and 
hed still have had to pay to stay in a hotel ahead of returning to the UK. And I also think he 
ought reasonably to have been aware - following a call at 9.43 on 27 July 2021  that there 
was at least a risk that his costs wouldnt be paid.
Taking the above into account, I dont find that Avivas service caused Mr B to lose out. Aviva has offered to pay Mr B £150 compensation for the additional upset its handling of 
these calls caused him, together with the cost of his calls. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. While I dont doubt that the conflicting information Mr B was given caused 
him extra worry and that making calls caused him a degree of inconvenience, I think the 
main cause of Mr Bs upset and anxiety was the situation in which he found himself. So I 
dont find that Aviva needs to pay Mr B any further compensation. It should, however, now 
pay Mr B £150 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman