DRN-1979578
The complaint
Ms W complains that MBNA Limited shouldnt be allowed to change the terms of her credit 
card agreement with it.
What happened
Ms W said that MBNA had written to her to say that the terms of her credit card account 
were changing. She didnt think it was fair that MBNA could just change the terms shed 
signed up to. She wanted MBNA to close her account. 
Ms W has a separate complaint about charges on her account, and correspondence and 
contact from MBNA. I wont be addressing that here.
MBNA said that Ms W had closed both of her accounts with it. So it wanted to know whether 
Ms W wanted to carry this complaint forward. 
Ms W said she did want to go ahead. She said that threatening to change the terms of her 
account while she was not in a position to close the account was a breach of the principles 
of integrity, customers interests, conflict of interest and trust. She thought our service should 
investigate, because lots of other customers were probably in the same position. 
MBNA said that the terms of Ms Ws account allowed it to change her terms and conditions 
under certain circumstances. It said that the amendments it had made were in line with the 
scope in the terms for changes to be made. And it said it had given the appropriate notice to 
make changes. MBNA said Ms W had asked for her account to be closed in response, and 
MBNA had taken steps to make sure that was done. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that MBNA had made 
changes in line with the terms of the account, it had given the required notice, and offered to 
close Ms Ws account if she preferred. Our investigator didnt think MBNA had been unfair, 
or had breached the principles Ms W had referred to.
Ms W didnt agree. She said that we should review this again, taking into account the Unfair 
Contract Terms Act. She didnt understand how incompatibility with that act could be 
compatible with the principles. She said it wouldnt be compatible with the Unfair Contract 
Terms Act for MBNA to say that it can change the contract terms at any time. And she said 
that she also thought it was incompatible with the principles shed mentioned. She said she 
wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Ms W is concerned that MBNA is able to change the terms of her account. But it doesnt do 
that unilaterally. It notifies Ms W of the changes, and she either agrees to them, and 
continues to operate her account, or she lets MBNA know that she objects, and wants to 
close her account. This sort of term, allowing for changes in specified circumstances and 
subject to notice requirements, is very common in banking.
Ms W says that it must be unlawful for MBNA to say it has the right to change the terms of 
her contract. The argument shes making is that it isnt fair for MBNA to push through 
changes when shes not in a position to close her account. But I can see that Ms W did close 
her account. She paid it off in full in February 2020. 
Ms W thinks that our service should look into this anyway, because she says that lots of 
other people must be affected, so she says theres a public interest in our service 
investigating this issue. 
But our service doesnt investigate overarching issues in this way. Were not a regulator. 
What we do is to look at the circumstances of a particular case, and see if the outcome for 
that individual has been fair and reasonable. 
When Ms W objected to changes to her account, she asked MBNA to close her account and 
it did so. Shes paid the debt off. I just dont think the question of whether its unfair for MBNA 
to change terms when someone isnt able to close their account actually arises in this case. 
And I dont think that what MBNA has done here is unfair or unreasonable. So, although I 
know Ms W will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman