DRN-3918759
The complaint
Mr P has complained about advice received from Phoenix Life Limited when taking out a 
Whole of Life policy in 1988.
 
Mr P is being represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). For 
ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mr P. 
What happened
Mr P took out a whole of life policy after taking advice from Phoenix in 1988 and there was 
an amendment made in 2003. The policy was surrendered in 2009. 
Mr P complained to Phoenix saying there was no explanation of how the plan worked or 
whether he was provided with documentation from it to read and review.  He said he should 
have been advised to resolve his debt issues before committing to the policy. He said he has 
paid substantial amounts in premiums and its no surprise that he struggled to pay them. He 
asked for the premiums to be refunded with interest. 
Phoenix said it was a reviewable whole of life policy that Mr P took out in 1988. It said it was 
designed to provide a lump sum in the event of death or critical illness. It said its adviser 
carried out a financial analysis and found that Mr Ps priority at that time was critical illness 
cover. It said at that time it would have been reasonable advice to have the policy alongside 
life protection as it was the only way to get critical illness cover. It added that its records 
showed the policy was assigned to a bank in 1992 and then re-assigned back in 2009. It 
said this suggests there was a need for the cover.
Mr P remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They didnt uphold the complaint saying they were 
satisfied the policy was suitable. They said Mr P was self-employed at the point of sale and 
their priority identified by Phoenix was to protect him against long term illness and disability. 
They also concluded that although Mr P was using his overdraft it didnt negate the need for 
protection or make the policy unaffordable. 
Mr P disagreed saying he was still of the view that the business shouldnt have advised him 
to have it. He also added that although the premium increases were explained, actual 
reviews of the policy werent. So as Mr Ps complaint hasnt been resolved between the 
parties, it has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has said there has been no explanation from Phoenix about how the policy worked or 
whether he was provided with documentation for him to read and review. 
Given that the policy was sold in 1989 and surrendered in 2009 I dont think its 
unreasonable that Phoenix no longer has this documentation from the time of sale. This is 
quite some time ago and so its not unusual for such paperwork to no longer be available. In 
these circumstances it wouldnt be fair of me to decide that Phoenix had done something 
wrong simply because they were, understandably, unable to provide documentation about 
how the policy worked. 
But what I do have to look through is a financial analysis form that the adviser from Phoenix 
completed when they discussed with Mr P his needs. This led to the adviser recommending 
the whole of life policy and Mr P taking it up. So, I have been able to read through this 
document to give me an idea about what the parties discussed at the time.
What I have been able to see on this form is that Mr P was married with two children and 
was self-employed. The policy was for whole of life and critical illness with a sum assured of 
£50,000. The analysis form showed that Mr P did have an overdraft and limited savings. 
Mr P said Phoenix shouldnt have advised him to take out the policy until he had resolved his 
debt issues. I can see that the adviser had recorded down on the analysis form that he had 
an overdraft. I cant be sure what was discussed between the parties at that time but based 
on what was recorded down on the analysis form, I havent seen enough that would suggest 
to me Mr P had issues with affordability. At least not enough that would make the policy 
unsuitable for him. 
It looks to me, on balance, that Mr Ps needs were taken into consideration including 
affordability and the adviser went ahead and recommended a whole of life policy with critical 
illness cover. On the form I can see that Mr P had prioritised critical illness cover as his 
number one concern at the time and his needs were reflected in the policy the adviser 
recommended for him.
Mr P said that whilst it was the case that premiums for the policy were explained, the 
process of having reviews werent and the risks association with that. 
I wasnt party to conversation when the advice was given but I think, on balance, it is 
reasonable to assume that the long-term nature of the policy was discussed and taken into 
consideration. To uphold this complaint and say that policy was mis-sold I would need to be 
persuaded that the policy was unsuitable. And I havent seen any persuasive evidence to 
show thats the case. 
The policy was seemingly what Mr P wanted at the time, in particular the critical illness cover 
element. The policy was assigned to a bank from 1992 up to 2009 and so seemed to provide 
valuable cover up until it was surrendered. Having carefully considered everything Im 
satisfied the policy was suitable for Mr P and provided the cover he required at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman