DRN-2669450
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was treated unfairly when he got into difficulty repaying a fixed sum
loan agreement he took out with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays
Partner Finance) (BPF).
What happened
 
Mr A signed up to a fixed sum loan agreement in December 2015 to fund the purchase of a
car. Mr A borrowed £21,347.64 repayable over 45 months at £415.11 per month with a
balloon payment at the end of £7,824.
Mr A says he was treated unfairly by BPF after he got into difficulty repaying the loan. He
says BPF recorded a default with the credit reference agencies on two different dates, one in
2017 and one in September 2018. He also says that BPF removed the default in 2019 only
to reapply it later on. He says it also told him it would remove any late payment history but
again went back on its word.
BPF accepted it had made errors dealing with Mr As complaint about the defaults and
offered to pay him compensation of £50. It did not however make any changes to the default
with the credit reference agencies as it considered it had been fairly recorded.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021 explaining why I thought Mr As complaint 
should be upheld in part. I said:
I am required to take relevant rules and guidance into account when considering what is fair
and reasonable in a complaint. The Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) sets out that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. It gives some examples of this such as
allowing a customer to defer arrears payments where appropriate. Or, allowing token
repayments for a reasonable period of time to help a customer recover from an income
shock when other priority debts might otherwise not be met. Ive kept this mind when looking
at how BPF treated Mr A.
Mr A first notified BPF that he was having trouble making repayments in February 2016. He
made ad-hoc payments after this for a while but repayments stopped in May 2016. From
BPFs record of contact with Mr A (the notes), this looks to have been the result of time off
work for sickness, reduced hours at work and a family bereavement. The notes show Mr A
told BPF hed be better placed to resume repayments once he increased his hours at work.
BPF were accommodating of Mr As requests for more time to make up the payments hed
missed and Ive not seen anything that makes me think it acted unreasonably.
The notes show BPF agreed a repayment plan with Mr A in December 2016 where he would
pay £120 per month for six months. Mr As account statements show he paid the January
2017 instalment but broke the terms of the plan the following month when no payment was
made. The notes show a new short term informal plan was agreed in March 2017, also for
£120 per month and with payments due on the 31st of every month. Again, I find BPF acted
with forbearance here. It gave Mr A more time to get back on his feet by allowing him to
make payments for a short while which were less than what were contractually due and
affordable.
Mr A paid £120 to BPF every month between March 2017 and December 2018. Mr A says
he does not believe he broke the terms of his payment plan as he paid the agreed amount
every month and it was unfair that a default was recorded with the credit reference agencies
in September 2018.
BPF says the plan was broken soon after it was agreed because Mr A didnt make the
payment due on 30 April 2017 on time. It says it was fairly able to record a default after this.
The Information Commissioners Office (the body that upholds information rights in the UK)
Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference
Agencies sets out the following guidance for reporting information to the credit reference
agencies and which is relevant here:
If your lender agrees to give you a temporary arrangement, but you fail to make the
agreed payment against the new terms, they may still file a default (see Principle 4
below) as soon as a payment is missed, as long you were at least 3 months in
arrears on the original agreement.
Mr A made the April 2017 payment one day late, on 1 May 2017. So, I think its a little unfair
to say his payment plan failed because of this. The notes do not support the fact the plan
failed either. There are call records made when Mr A called BPF to make manual payments,
after the date BPF says the plan failed, which say Mr A was paying in line with LIRP (an
acronym for the payment plan he agreed in March 2017). It appears to me that BPF did not
consider Mr A to be in breach of his payment plan and was happy to continue to receive
£120 per month from him. Otherwise, I think its likely BPF would have defaulted the loan
earlier than the 14 or so months it waited before doing this.
I think BPF should have been making it clear to Mr A during these 14 months (and
particularly around the time it was considering sending the default notice) that either his
reduced payments were no longer acceptable, or that the plan had failed because he hadnt
paid on time. I cant see from the notes that it did this. So, I dont think it was entirely fair to
record the default with the credit reference agencies.
Nevertheless, Mr A had been making reduced payments for over a year by the time BPF
defaulted the loan and he was well in excess of six months in arrears. Ive not seen anything
to make me think Mr A was able to clear these arrears or get back to making contractual
payments during this time. And Mr A did eventually miss a payment entirely in December
2018. So, I find it most likely the loan would have defaulted anyway. And, even if I were to
ask BPF to change the default to a later date, this would be detrimental to Mr A as it would
stay on his credit file longer.
So overall, while I have some reservations about the way the default ended up on Mr As
credit file, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in this case to require BPF to change or
remove it.
Mr A says BPF registered the default twice with the credit reference agencies, once in 2017
and then again in 2018. But Ive not seen anything that makes me think a default was
recorded in 2017. For example, the notes show the date the default notice process wasinitiated, the date the notice was sent and the date the account was defaulted  all in
August/September 2018. There are not however any similar records for 2017. And, Ive not
seen any copies of Mr As credit file showing a default in 2017.
From what Ive seen BPF did provide Mr A with some misleading advice when he queried
the status of his loan with the credit reference agencies in 2019. It appears from the notes
that it told him no further late payment information would be recorded on his credit file as he
was on an agreed repayment plan. This was of course incorrect as the loan had already
defaulted. Mr A says BPF also said it would remove the default from his credit file only to
reinstate it soon after.
I accept it would have been frustrating for Mr A to learn the default was being reinstated
having earlier been told it would been removed. And also frustrating that he was given wrong 
information about the removal of any other adverse information with the credit
reference agencies. However just because Mr A was given the wrong information doesnt
mean BPF should have to honour it. That wouldnt be the fair or reasonable thing to do here
given the conclusions Ive reached about the default in the paragraphs above this.
BPF has offered to pay Mr A £50 for any distress or inconvenience its mistake may have
caused him. I think £150 is fairer in respect of the complaint overall. BPF was not clear about
the status of Mr As loan between April 2017 and August 2018. So, I think it would have been
an unpleasant surprise for him to learn the loan was being defaulted when he thought he
was up to date on a repayment plan. I find it fair that BPF compensate Mr A £100 for the
distress and inconvenience this caused and pay him the £50 it has already offered (if it
hasnt already done this).
Following my provisional decision BPF said it had nothing further to add.
Mr A disagreed with my provisional decision. He said £150 is not fair compensation for 
everything he has been through with BPF, in particular the amount of times it changed the 
default on his credit file and all of the running around he had to do to get it clarified. Mr A 
also provided evidence of correspondence he received from BPF apologising for changing 
the date of the default on his credit file. He also provided copies of his credit file showing the 
date of default as 31 March 2017.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr A for the information he has supplied both from BPF and the credit reference 
agency, and the extract from his credit file. It is apparent from this that BPF did change the 
date of the default on Mr As credit file from 2 September 2018 to 31 March 2017. Having put 
this to BPF it has now confirmed it did happen. 
I maintain that BPFs records show it sent Mr A a default notice in August 2018 and 
defaulted the loan on 2 September 2018. And, that there are no such notes or records of 
contact corresponding with a default date of March 2017. BPF has said it retrospectively 
changed the default date to 31 March 2017 in October 2019. So, I think the original date of 
default was always 2 September 2018 but BPF later decided to change this. BPF hasnt 
been able to provide a definitive answer as to why it did this. But from the letter Mr A has 
given us it would appear there was some of form of dialogue with one of the credit reference 
agencies.  Nevertheless, and regardless of the reason for the change, a date of default of 31 March 
2017 benefits Mr A when compared with the position I set out in my provisional decision. 
This is because he will not have to wait as long for the default to fall away from his credit file 
(this happens after six years).
Furthermore, the information Mr A has sent me does not change my mind that a default 
should not have been recorded at all and I still think this was inevitable for the reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision. So, the earlier the default shows on Mr As credit file, 
the better this is for him. I dont therefore propose that BPF make any changes to the date of 
the default if it is still reporting this as 31 March 2017. 
Mr A has said the default should have been recorded even earlier, in 2016 as thats when he 
started missing payments. BPF gave Mr A time in 2016 to make up his arrears as hed told it 
his financial difficulties were of a temporary nature. I dont find therefore it would have been 
reasonable to default the loan at this point as this would have made the whole balance of the 
loan payable on demand. 
It is of course disappointing that BPF has only now accepted that it did change the date of 
default  having maintained all along that it was reporting as 2 September 2018. Its not 
however the role of this service to punish BPF. So, I must consider whether there was any 
additional impact on Mr A as a result of these latest developments. 
I explained already in my provisional decision that Mr A would have been left confused and 
frustrated by BPFs lack of clarity about the status of his loan. So, these developments only 
reinforce that finding. I know Mr A is not happy with the compensation I proposed for this but 
I do still think it is fair.  I dont find BPF should pay Mr A any additional compensation  he is 
after all better off now as a result of the default being recorded 17 months earlier on his 
credit file.  
BPF should continue to treat Mr A with forbearance and due consideration when dealing with 
any outstanding debt owed to it. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part. 
To put things right Clydesdale Financial Services Limited must pay Mr A compensation of 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman