DRN-3977205
The complaint
Miss M complains about the service provided by M & G Securities Limited (M&G) when it 
took longer than it shouldve done to transfer the proceeds from a sale of shares into her 
bank account.   
To put things right and properly reflect the impact on her of its admitted poor service, Miss M 
would like more compensation than M&G has agreed to pay. She wants redress to reflect 
fair compensation for personal distress and inconvenience and financial loss including:
the fund share price increasing in value during the 3 weeks she had to wait for the 
funds to be transferred into her account, and
movement in the exchange rate which meant she lost out when the sterling price 
fluctuated negatively
she said shed also lost money from her wages due to missed time waiting on the 
phone and making calls to M&G. 
What happened
It took around three weeks for M&G to release the proceeds from a sale of shares to 
Miss Ms bank account after she had placed a withdrawal on 8 August 2022. During this 
time, Miss M had many phone calls with M&G and she spent several hours on the phone 
trying to find out what was happening and getting the matter sorted out. 
M&G agreed that it didnt provide a good enough service on this occasion, which meant 
Miss M had to wait longer than she ought reasonably have had to wait to receive her sale 
proceeds. M&G explained that in April 2022, it had been advised of Miss Ms new address. 
Previous bank account statements received in 2016, 2017 and in May 2020 held different 
address details to those registered on the account in April 2022. M&G is required to verify 
bank details electronically if possible and it tried, unsuccessfully to do this. This meant that 
Miss M needed to send in a more recent bank statement, which M&G received on 
15 August 2022. It was then referred internally for confirmation it could pay out the proceeds 
to a non-UK bank account. 
M&G upheld Miss Ms complaint on the basis that it should have explained to her when she 
placed the withdrawal that it would need to verify her bank account and it should have asked 
her then to send in bank verification at that early stage which might have avoided some of 
the delay that followed. By way of an apology, M&G paid Miss M £100 compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Miss M felt this offer fell a long way short of fair compensation to properly redress M&Gs 
service failings and she brought her complaint to this service. 
When our investigator looked into what happened, he felt that an amount of £300 in total 
was fair compensation overall. 
M&G agreed to pay a further £200 compensation in line with the investigators 
recommendation. Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She highlighted the following 
main points of concern in support of her view that M&G should pay her £500 additional 
compensation:
M&Gs lack of professional customer service and lack of knowledge of the reason 
for the delay
lack of communication 
lack of care and respect for her, bearing in mind that shed been a client for over 
30 years 
lack of basic common sense regarding international banking
lack of any consideration for the urgency of her personal circumstances. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss M that Ive looked at the complaint afresh. Having thought about 
everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our 
investigator. 
The background facts are not in dispute and M&G has upheld Miss Ms complaint so I dont 
need to say more about what happened. I agree that Miss M was entitled to expect a better 
level of service from M&G than she experienced. In my decision, I will concentrate on the 
question of fair redress, which is the main concern now and the reason Miss M has 
requested an ombudsman referral.
I can completely understand that what happened was very upsetting and frustrating for 
Miss M. The sale of shares was prompted in the first place by a large and unexpected bill 
that urgently needed to be paid and the delay and difficulty she encountered was a shock  
Miss M said she hadnt had this problem before. 
I can tell M&G to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am satisfied 
that M&G did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this caused Miss M 
some detriment and/or financial loss. 
I've taken carefully into account what Miss M has said about how everything affected her  
and I can tell from the call recordings that I've listened to that this was a seriously upsetting 
and distressing experience for Miss M. Its only fair that the compensation she receives 
properly reflects the impact on her of M&Gs service failings on this occasion. To my mind, 
this should include not only M&Gs failure to flag up the need for verification of her bank 
details sooner but also the fact that Miss M had to keep chasing for information and updates 
on the phone. 
But I must be impartial and also think about things from M&Gs point of view.
Ive also kept in mind that M&G was required to complete a verification check and it had to 
follow its process for doing this. And broadly speaking, it seems to me to have carried out 
the steps it needed to take within a generally reasonable timescale. Possibly it could have 
done things a bit more quickly and Miss M could have had her money a few days earlier than 
in the event happened  but this doesnt affect the outcome. I havent seen enough to show 
that M&G delayed, unreasonably or to any significant extent, carrying out the checks it 
needed to do. M&Gs main failings, so far as I can see, are that it failed to warn Miss M in advance what 
would need to happen and it didnt take the initiative to keep her fully abreast of 
developments, when it knew she was already very worried about how long things were 
taking, so adding to her stress and anxiety.  
Looked at overall, keeping in mind the small exchange rate loss which M&G should redress 
(which M&G has accepted) I find the £300 suggested by the investigator reflects the level of 
award I would make in these circumstances had it not already been proposed. 
I dont doubt that M&Gs poor handling of matters caused Miss M significant distress and 
inconvenience but I think a payment of £300 overall is in line with the amount this service 
would award in similar cases and it is fair compensation for Miss M in her particular 
circumstances. 
I understand that Miss M wanted extra to cover costs she incurred dealing with the complaint 
and she mentioned the change in fund value, but I dont think it would be fair to ask M&G to 
make any additional payment. I havent been provided with anything to show she incurred 
any actual financial loss (beyond the loss on currency conversion which the redress awarded 
already covers). And we dont generally award compensation for time spent dealing with a 
complaint as this is considered to be part and parcel of the complaint process, bearing in 
mind also that the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says our 
service can only look into complaints about regulated activities, and complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity.
If I have not referred to everything mentioned during the course of this complaint, thats 
because Ive concentrated on what seems to me to be the core issue I needed to address  
essentially the question of fair redress. This reflects the fact that we provide an informal 
complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts. I hope that setting things out 
as I've done is helpful and even though this isnt the outcome Miss M hoped for, she will feel 
that her complaint has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.Putting things right
To put things right for Miss M, M&G should pay redress amounting to £300 in total  so to be 
clear, if it hasnt already done so, it should pay Miss M a further £200 on top of the £100 
compensation it has paid already. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct M & G Securities Limited to take the steps set out above to 
put things right for Miss M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman