DRN-3021044
The complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) delayed providing 
details to allow him to repay a finance agreement and that he was pressurised to take out 
the agreement rather than pay in cash. He also expressed his concerns about its complaints 
handling.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Our investigator has provided a detailed and comprehensive response to Mr Ss complaint 
and I trust both parties will recognise that given I find myself in agreement with her 
conclusions I have kept this decision concise. I would add for the avoidance of doubt that I 
have read the material supplied by both Mr S and the business.
Firstly, I would explain that my role does not extend to interfering with commercial decisions 
or arrangements made by a regulated business. I have to consider whether its handling of 
Mr Ss request to make an early payment was fair and reasonable.  
The fundamental issue is that it took a little over a month for the payment to be made and it 
is Mr Ss contention that the cause of the delay arose from a lack of information from 
BMWFS. 
It uses a bank based outside the UK and I can understand Mr Ss concerns that his 
substantial payment may have been at risk had he authorised it while there was any doubt 
about the transfer. 
The business records show that BMWFS issued a letter on 31 October, but this was not 
received by Mr S. I acknowledge that he has concerns about the issue of this letter, but I 
have no reason to doubt it was sent. As such, I cannot hold BMWFS responsible for its non-
delivery.  
Nor can I infer that it has done anything wrong as a result of it not having a recording of the 
call on 31 October. It was not obliged to retain it beyond six months. It is likely it would have 
provided additional clarity about events and it regrettable it is not available, but that does not 
cause me to reach a different conclusion to that of our investigator.
I also have noted that there were alternative methods of making a payment to the business, 
but Mr S says he wasnt made aware of these.  However, the letter issued by BMWFS does 
detail where a cheque should be sent and so I believe Mr S had a means of making 
payment. I also understand that further information was available online. That said, I 
recognise he wanted to use a bank transfer and until he was clear on the transfer details he 
felt unable to proceed.
So, while the process took longer than Mr S wished I cannot safely conclude that BMWFS 
was the sole cause of the delay. Mr S had other options available to him to expedite the 
payment if he so wished.
On the matter of the interest calculation I am satisfied that BMWFS has followed the 
government rules as set out in the Consumer Credit Act (Early Settlement) Regulations 
2004. These calculations can be complex, but in essence they allow the business to charge 
for 56 days interest where the loan is for a period of more than one year. On Mr Ss 
complaint that the interest he was charged was wrong I regret that I cannot agree.
On the matter of the handling of his complaint I have to explain that complaint handling is not 
a regulated activity, but certain elements can overlap with the substance of the complaint. In 
Mr Ss case I dont consider the actions of the business in responding to him was detrimental 
to the substance of his complaint. I consider the matter has been fully addressed, albeit 
some further clarification was provided after the involvement of this service.
As for the matter of pressure being applied to Mr S to take a finance package I have seen 
nothing to show that there was undue pressure. It was open to the dealer to try and sell him 
a finance agreement just as it was open to him to refuse it.
In conclusion I would say that I have every sympathy with Mr S and it was regrettable that 
the process was delayed, but I cannot safely uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman