DRN-2310117
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of unapproved and faulty repairs to his car.
What happened
Mr A bought a second-hand car in the UK and after having it serviced he took to his house in 
mainland Europe. When driving abroad a warning light came on and he took to an approved 
garage for repairs. He says the timing chain needed to be replaced, along with the water 
pump and a supercharger kit fitted. The estimated cost was some €3,200, but the actual bill 
came to €6,730.71.
Mr A also believed the work was not carried out properly as there was only one washer used 
and he wasnt charged for replacement washers or the timing cover.
Mr A complained to the garage and to the manufacturer. The latter offered to reimburse the 
difference paid for the supercharger and the correspondent labour hours. It also said the car 
should be taken to another main dealer for a screw to be refitted and for the car to be 
checked. Mr A had claimed that his alloy wheels had been damaged, but the manufacturer 
said that they appeared to have suffered wear and tear. Mr A declined this offer as the 
manufacturer wouldnt tell him how much it would reimburse him.
He made a section 75 claim, but Nationwide said that he had already been offered 
reimbursement by the manufacturer and it had no way of knowing that the work had not 
been carried out to an acceptable standard.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted that Mr A had no written quote 
but relied on a verbal agreement. She said she had no way of knowing what works had been 
agreed or what estimate of cost had been provided.
She said that without independent evidence as to the quality of the work she was unable to 
conclude that it wasnt satisfactory. She suggested Mr A may wish to reconsider the offer 
made by the manufacturer.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he had agreed a price verbally and referred to a letter from the 
manufacturer which stated: The retailer advised that the original invoice was around 3000 
euros due to distribution replacement. He said this endorsed his position. He explained that 
the manufacturers offer expired in January 2019 and Nationwide had taken from March 
2019 to October 2019 to decide his claim. Nevertheless, the offer by the manufacturer 
supported his claim. 
He said that the garage had not followed the manufacturers specifications in that parts 
which should have been replaced were not. He believed the evidence pointed towards a 
washer being left off. He said he was prepared to take the car to another garage to check 
the work.
He said the job card was the contract with the garage and it should set out what was to be 
done. He supplied a document from the garage which naturally wasnt written in English. Mr 
A told us that it says that first line is an instruction to replace the timing chains and 
tensioners (distribution) the second line shows an instruction to replace the supercharger, 
agreed by phone. He said the garage had no evidence that he agreed to this by phone and 
it was incumbent on it to ensure it had the authority to incur greater costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After due deliberation I do not believe I can uphold Mr As complaint. I will explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain
I am satisfied that the required chain is in place and so I now have to consider if there is a 
clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. I think it important to note that 
the breach has to be clear. While I can see that Mr A has put forward circumstantial 
evidence in support of his claim I dont consider it is sufficient to establish it with the 
necessary degree of certainty. Nationwide has been asked to pay out a substantial sum and 
it is reasonable for it to expect the evidence to support the claim to be sufficiently strong.
I agree with Mr A that a contract does not need to be committed to writing, but it is very 
difficult to say what was contained in a verbal contract which is disputed. I think it worth 
quoting from the email sent by the manufacturer at greater length. This reads:
The Retailer advised that the original invoice was around 3,000 Euros's due to a distribution 
replacement. During the repair, it was advised that you had informed the Retailer over the 
phone that you had noticed also a noise on the supercharger which needed to be reviewed 
as well. The Retailer informed that the supercharger had to be replaced and this was agreed 
over the phone.
Whilst the supercharge was being replaced there was communication that repair should be 
finished by 6th September 2018. The Retailer had ordered a screw however, this part was 
not going to arrive on time. Topix recommended that this screw should be replaced, however 
due to the deadline recorded that screw was ok and they leave the previous one.
The response also advises that you were informed and the Retailer warrantied him in case 
of any issue they will cover it. This part was not charged.
The response recognises you were not happy with supercharge replacement as this was to 
mean replace just the kit supercharge however, this repair had been authorized over the 
phone.The conclusion was it had been recognised that there was a concern with the information 
due to the barrier language but, the repair and costs were ok.
The garage says the additional work was agreed by phone and Mr A disagrees. The garage 
says that it didnt replace a screw but used the original to avoid a delay. The parties have a 
totally different view of events and without clear supporting evidence it is difficult for me to 
conclude that Nationwide was wrong to reject the claim.
I can see that Mr A sees that the manufacturers offer suggests there was merit to his claim, 
but while I have sympathy with this view, I can see that it would appear to have been driven 
by a desire to protect the brand name after Mr A involved the Chairmans Office. It is 
unfortunate that he rejected this offer.
Mr A has also quoted various pieces of UK consumer law, but the garage was subject to its 
own national laws which I believe are similar to those in the UK including the distance selling 
rules. However, I dont believe this makes any difference to my decision.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. However, the 
ultimate test is what I consider to be fair and reasonable with regard to Nationwides 
handling of Mr As claim based on the evidence presented to me.
I have noted the various technical documents Mr A has supplied and his knowledge of the 
car and its mechanics but these do not lead me to conclude the repairs were not carried out 
correctly. I have also noted his reports of conversation with garage after the work had been 
done, but again without corroborating evidence I cannot say what was said by both parties. 
I have every sympathy with Mr As situation and I appreciate he will be disappointed with my 
decision, but I do not consider I am able to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman