DRN-3218640
The complaint
Mr A complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under his home 
emergency policy.
What happened
In July 2021 a pipe burst under Mr As sink. He made a claim to Aviva under his home 
emergency policy and it sent an engineer to inspect the damage. He says the engineer 
wouldnt repair the problem saying the pipe hadnt been installed properly and wasnt 
covered under his policy. 
Aviva says its engineer found Mr As boiler was connected to the rest of the house using 
washing machine hose. It says this isnt the correct installation and had been poorly fitted. 
Aviva says its policy excludes Mr As claim for this reason.
Mr A disagreed. He says the piping is part of the fabric of the building and doesnt fall under 
the exclusion wording set out in his policy. He says the pipe was adequately installed and 
had been working fine for years. Because Aviva wouldnt agree, he referred his complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought it was clear from the engineers 
comments that Mr As plumbing installation hadnt been fitted correctly. He felt Aviva had 
correctly determined a policy exclusion applied and this meant Mr As claim was justifiably 
declined.
Mr A disagreed with this outcome. He says the pipes used are not washing machine hoses, 
they are plumbing hoses. He didnt think the view of Avivas engineer could be considered 
impartial and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
My role here is to consider whether Mr A has shown he suffered an insured loss. If he has 
Aviva should accept the claim unless it can show a valid exclusion applies, in which case the 
claim can then reasonably be declined. 
Mr As policy booklet says he is covered for plumbing and drainage issues. This includes 
cover for leaking pipes. I think its reasonably been shown that an insured loss occurred 
when the pipe burst under Mr As sink. This isnt disputed by Aviva.  
To understand if Aviva has relied on a valid exclusion to decline the claim, I have considered 
the policy terms and conditions. The relevant terms relied upon by the business under the 
General Exclusions section say:
We will not pay for:
e) systems/equipment/appliances that have not been installed, serviced or maintained 
regularly according to British Standards and/or manufacturers instructions; or that are 
subject to a manufacturers recall.
Aviva doesnt think the washing machine hose used in Mr As installation is in accordance 
with British Standards or the manufacturers instructions. 
I have read the notes recorded by the engineer who attended to inspect the damage. His 
notes are copied in full below:
Arrived on site to no water to house as washing machine hose had blown after inspection 
found the cold and hot water from the garage were the boiler is is connected to the rest of 
the house on 4x washing machine hoses advized this isn't fitted correctly and cmr advised 
this has happened before advised this isn't the correct use of these fitting needs to pipeed 
up properly spoke with [colleague] he also agreed thats its poorly installed and we wouldn't 
cover it I have manage to get cold water to rest of house and kitchen just no hot water cmr
isn't too happy its not getting fixed as wanted proof where it said it T&C's were it says poorly 
installed isn't covered [colleague] advised to contact the admin side as he can't see it from 
his end with it being an online policy. Pictures taken of work. Advised cmr worst install I've 
seen of pipework. Capped cold and hot from garage in cupboard. Cold water to house all 
over just no hot. 
Im not a plumbing expert and must be guided by the expert opinion provided. The experts 
view here is that washing machine hose is not meant to connect appliances in the way it has 
been used in Mr As home. Aviva says it informed Mr A that there should be permanent 
pipework in place, that a suitable material should be used for this and the pipework secured. 
But as it stands Mr As piping installation isnt fitted correctly using the correct piping. 
I have seen the photos taken by Avivas engineer of the piping installation in place. I think 
this reasonably supports the engineers view that washing machine hose was used to supply 
water to the sink. 
I acknowledge Mr As comments that Avivas engineer is not impartial. But he hasnt 
provided an alternative expert opinion that supports his view that his piping installation is 
suitable and fitted correctly. Based on the expert opinion of the engineer, combined with the 
photos and comments provided, I think Avivas view is persuasive that the installation isnt 
suitable or correctly fitted. 
Having considered all of this, I think Aviva acted fairly in relying on its policy terms when 
declining Mr As claim for the reasons it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to 
resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2022.
 Mike Waldron
Ombudsman