DRN-2157930
The complaint
Ms M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc rejected her claim under Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of an unsatisfactory rubbish removal service.
What happened
In September 2018 Ms M arranged for a company, which I will call C, to clear rubbish from 
her property. The men worked for several hours and took rubbish away saying they would 
return later that day to complete the job. They didnt do so and Ms M contacted C. She was 
told they would return the following morning, but they didnt arrive until the afternoon.
Apparently, they spent an hour or so removing the rubbish and left without notifying her. Ms 
M emailed C and said she had found rubbish left behind which she had to clear up in a bin 
bag and there were nails in the garage. She also said that some of the rubbish had been put 
in her recycling bin. However, she did say that at least most of the rubbish had gone.
C rejected Ms Ms complaint and she contacted Clydesdale. It made a chargeback request, 
but this was disputed by C.  Ms M told the bank she had made a S 75 claim and not asked 
for a chargeback. There seems to have been some confusion within the bank and Ms was 
only told a year later that her claim had been rejected. 
Ms M complained and Clydesdale apologised for its poor service and offered her £50 
compensation, but it didnt accept that her S 75 claim should be upheld. Ms M brought her 
complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld.
He noted Ms M had hired C to remove some old items and junk from your property, mainly 
from your garage. This was supported by a job sheet from C which notes the job as a 
general garage clear out. This was confirmed in an email sent to C by Ms M.
He said that there wasnt enough evidence to allow him to say there had been a clear breach 
of contract. Ms M didnt agree and said rubbish had been thrown under her bushes at the 
bottom of her garden and she would have to pay another company to finish the job. The men 
had left more than just the odd item of rubbish.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the strength of feeling Ms M has shown and I have every sympathy with her, but 
I do not consider I can uphold her complaint. I will explain why.
It may help if I explain the chargeback system. Chargeback doesn't mean there is joint 
liability on the card company. It is a voluntary scheme administered by the card provider, in 
this case MasterCard, not Clydesdale. The consumer makes a claim to their bank and it puts 
a request to the merchant's bank. But there are no guarantees the consumers bank will be 
able to recover the money through chargeback, or that the merchant will accept that the 
claim is justified. 
C rejected the chargeback and there was no basis for Clydesdale taking the matter any 
further. However, I consider it should have explored the option of section 75 and it delayed 
acting unnecessarily. However, the bank has accepted it provided a poor level of service and 
it has offered Ms M £50 which I consider to be fair.
As for the issue of the section 75 claim there has to be either misrepresentation or a clear 
breach of contract. The difficulty I have in this complaint is that I cannot say that there has 
been a clear breach of contract. In an email Ms M agreed that most of the rubbish had been 
removed and that she had put what was left in bin bag. More recently she has suggested the 
rubbish which hadnt been cleared was substantial, but at the time she complained to C that 
was not her position. I note that she says other workmen agreed with her, but I have nothing 
directly from them to support her claim. In essence, she has asked Clydesdale to pay her 
£375 and it is only right that it ask that she provide clear evidence to show the service wasnt 
delivered. Regrettably, I dont consider she has done so.
I have every sympathy with her and with her family circumstances. I appreciate the demands 
these place on her, but on the basis of the material I have been provided I cannot see that I 
can uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc should 
pay £50, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman