DRN-4283107
The complaint
Mr H has a mortgage account with Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax. In July 2021 Mr H 
complained to the bank that, in November 2017, Halifax destroyed a letter saying he was 
entitled to a refund of interest on his mortgage.
To put things right, Mr H wants Halifax to remove the interest on his mortgage, as per the 
letter he says hed received. Mr H now calculates this at more than £40,000.
Mr H is represented in the complaint by an adviser, but for clarity I will refer to Mr H 
throughout.
What happened
Mr H raised other complaint issues with us but on 19 September 2023 I issued a decision 
explaining why I will only be considering the above issue, as well as arrears on the account 
since January 2021.
I do not need to set out the entire history of the matter. The details of the complaint are set 
out in correspondence so there is no need for me to repeat them here. In addition, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Mr H being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons 
for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Letter from November 2017: Mr H says that he received a letter from Halifax in 
November 2017 advising him that he was due a refund of interest. Mr H says he spoke to a 
member of staff in his local branch, a Mr C, in November 2017, who advised Mr H that he 
was due a refund of mortgage interest amounting to £36,000. 
Mr H says he went back into the branch to arrange for the refund to be made, but Mr C was 
no longer there. Mr H says he then spoke to a female member of staff, who reviewed his 
documentation and returned it to him, but without the November 2017 letter, which Mr H 
believes she shredded. 
Halifaxs position is that no such letter was sent, and that in any event Mr C, as a branch 
employee (not a manager) had no authority to authorise the removal of £36,000 in interest 
from Mr Hs mortgage account. 
Ive looked at the records for Mr Hs account. Every time a letter is sent, it leaves a digital 
footprint in Halifaxs records. The records show that a refund of charges was made to the 
account of £406.34 on 8 November 2017, and a letter confirming the refund and the reason 
for it was sent to Mr H that same date. However, there is no record of a letter sent in 
November 2017 (or, indeed at any other time) stating that Mr H was due a refund of the 
interest on his mortgage.
Ive thought about whether there is anything else that might support what Mr H has said 
about this, and whether, on the balance of probabilities, such a letter was sent.
In this context, I note Mr H has made several previous complaints both to Halifax and to our 
service about his mortgage account since November 2017. In particular I note that Mr H 
brought a detailed complaint to our service in 2018 about his mortgage, when he was 
unhappy that he had an interest-only mortgage, and believed the balance was incorrect. 
Mr H believed that, rather than the £93,000 Halifax said he owed, the balance should be 
around £50,000.
In a letter dated 28 August 2018, our adjudicator explained that the mortgage, taken out in 
2002, was part-repayment, part-interest-only, over a term of 25 years. The investigator set 
out the history of the account, including where Halifax had put in place payment 
arrangements, capitalisation of arrears and payment holidays, and where Mr H had taken a 
product transfer in March 2017. The investigator was satisfied that the mortgage balance 
had not decreased as Mr H had hoped because not all payments had been made in full and 
on time, and that arrears had been capitalised, which increased the mortgage balance.
I note that during this complaint in 2018 there is no mention of the issue Mr H is now raising 
in this current complaint  which is that hed received a letter in November 2017 from Halifax 
saying that the bank would remove his mortgage interest, that he went into the branch to 
arrange this and he believes the letter was shredded. 
I find it surprising that Mr H made no mention of this in 2018 when we looked at his earlier 
complaint. That complaint was brought to us only a few months after the date when Mr H 
says this happened. Given that the amount of money Mr H says is involved is quite a 
substantial sum  £36,000 in 2017  and that the event allegedly happened so close in time 
to when Mr H contacted us, I would have expected him to have mentioned this in 2018 
rather than several years later.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter, the evidence does not 
persuade me that Halifax sent Mr H a letter in November 2017 offering to remove his 
mortgage interest. I also think it is unlikely that Mr C would have told Mr H that he would 
arrange this, as Mr C had no authority to do so. I am also not persuaded that Halifax 
shredded documentation; there would have been no benefit to the bank in doing this 
because, as I said above, if such a letter had been sent, there would have been a digital 
record of it in any event so it could easily be restored.
In the circumstances, Im unable to uphold this part of the complaint.
Arrears since January 2021: I am told that there is about £1,000 in arrears on the account, 
which arose prior to January 2021. I am pleased to note that Mr H has the support of an 
adviser to help him with this matter. Halifax is aware of its regulatory obligations to help 
vulnerable customers, and that it should put in place suitable arrangements to help 
customers in arrears. In the circumstances, it might be helpful for Mr Hs adviser to contact 
Halifax to see what can be done to assist in clearing the current arrears. If Mr H has been 
able to make twelve consecutive full payments, I note Halifax has said that it might be 
possible to capitalise the arrears. There are, of course, implications for the account if arrears are capitalised  a higher 
balance and higher repayments  so it is important Mr H gets advice about this and what the 
impact might be for him. But from what Halifax has told me, it appears the bank is 
sympathetic to helping Mr H with his current arrears.
Ive not been able to identify any errors in the way Halifax has dealt with Mr Hs account 
since January 2021. I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman