DRN-3405522
The complaint
Mr N says Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly refused to remove a missed payment marker it 
had added in relation to his bank account.
What happened
Last year, one of my fellow ombudsmen issued a final decision on a complaint  which Ill 
mainly refer to as the first complaint for clarity and convenience  made by Mr N against 
Barclays. Essentially, Mr N was unhappy with the compensation it had offered to pay him for 
errors it had made on his account. Among other things, Barclays agreed to write off almost 
£350 that was owing on the account as a gesture of goodwill, remove a default marker it had 
incorrectly added against the account and pay Mr N £1,000 by way of an apology. 
Very briefly, the ombudsman found that Barclays had compensated Mr N fairly for the errors 
it had made and didnt require it to do any more. They noted the default incorrectly added by 
Barclays was likely to have had some impact on his credit score. But that there were other 
issues with his credit file not related to the actions of Barclays that would also have impacted 
on his ability to obtain credit on the best possible terms.
Mr N raised a further complaint with Barclays. He believed Barclays should have removed a 
report of a missed payment (or arrears) on his credit file made in 2016 when it removed the 
default referred to in the ombudsmans decision. Mr N also wasnt happy with the way 
Barclays had handled his complaint. Barclays felt the arrears it had reported were genuine 
and that it had a regulatory responsibility to notify the relevant credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) of them. But it did apologise for some aspects of its handling of his complaint.
Unhappy with Barclayss response, Mr N brought his complaint to this service.    
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
They felt Barclays had been entitled to add a missed payment marker to his credit file for his 
account being overdrawn. They agreed that Barclays could have handled Mr Ns complaint 
better but felt the apology offered by Barclays was sufficient overall.
As Mr N was unhappy with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh and reach a decision. Mr N spoke to the investigator at length over the phone 
to explain why he didnt agree with their findings. He said the investigator hadnt been able to 
base their findings on all the facts since Barclays had deliberately withheld information from 
this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that one of my ombudsman colleagues has already issued a final decision which 
is related to some of the issues Mr Ns raised as part of this complaint. I dont intend to 
reconsider anything thats already been considered or addressed by that ombudsman. Nor is 
it for me to seek to interpret their decision, apart from where thats necessary in reaching my 
decision on this separate complaint.
With that in mind, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
In relation to the first complaint, Barclays agreed that the circa £350 Mr N was overdrawn by 
and owed shouldnt have been reported to the CRAs as a default. On learning of its mistake 
in 2020, Barclays removed the default. Several years earlier, in 2016, it had already written 
off the amount Mr N owed.   
One of the key questions Ive considered is whether Barclays was entitled to retain the 
missed payment marker in relation to the money Mr N owed or if it should have removed the 
marker together with the default.
Mr N argues the missed payment marker should also have been removed and that Barclays 
had told him  or at least led him to believe  thats what would happen. He repeated the 
allegation in his lengthy call with the investigator of March 2022, a recording of which Ive 
carefully listened to. Having reviewed the available information, I cant see enough to 
support what Mr Ns said. I believe Barclays clearly told him, for example in its final response 
of December 2020, that the default had been removed. It made no mention of removing the 
missed payment marker, nor did it suggest it would do that.
I note Mr Ns point about Barclays agreeing to write off the amount overdrawn in 2016. He 
feels this indicates that he didnt owe Barclays that money in the first place. I dont agree 
thats the case. Instead, I believe the money was genuinely owed to Barclays. I say that 
because the account details provided by Barclays show hed accumulated the debit balance 
primarily following several payments made in September 2016. So, I think Barclays was 
entitled to consider the money as owing and to add the missed payment marker. Although 
Barclays later wrote off the debt, Im satisfied it did so as a gesture of goodwill, as was 
explained to Mr N in its final response of 2016. At no stage did Barclays, as far as I can tell, 
agree to remove the related marker.   
I appreciate that Mr N feels that Barclays has withheld or deliberately deleted evidence and 
lied in its submissions to this service. But thats a serious allegation and, on balance, I 
havent seen enough evidence in support of it. I can only advise Mr N that its open for him to 
contact the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  the body that regulates financial businesses 
 if he wants to try and pursue that aspect. Although I cant comment on whether the FCA 
would agree to look into the matter or on what the outcome might be if it did. 
This may come as little consolation to Mr N, but I gather the missed payment marker will, as 
a matter of course, be deleted from his credit file before the end of the year. Thats 
regardless of the outcome Ive reached on this complaint.
Finally, its not in dispute that Barclays hasnt treated Mr N fairly in some respects regarding 
its handling of the issues hes raised. Many of these aspects have already been considered 
as part of the first complaint this service considered. At that time, the ombudsman noted 
Barclays had offered him compensation and didnt award any more. 
It seems further service issues arose in relation to this complaint, which I can see Barclays 
promptly acknowledged and apologised for. Recordings of the calls in question havent been 
made available to me, but Ive carefully considered what Mr Ns said about them together 
with Barclayss records from the time. Having done so, I think that the apology Barclays 
offered was genuine. Despite the mental health issues Mr N unfortunately suffers with, I 
dont believe the impact on him has been shown to be such that compensation is warranted 
in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman