DRN-4226699
The complaint
Mr M complains that Next Retail Limited irresponsibly provided him with a credit account that 
he couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr M applied online for, and obtained, a Next credit account. The credit 
limit was set at £600 and no increases to the limit were applied. 
In 2023, Mr M complained to Next that it had lent to him irresponsibly, causing him financial 
difficulty and stress. 
Next didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out appropriate checks which showed 
Mr M could afford the credit it had provided him with.
Unhappy with Nexts response, Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. They believed, in essence, that 
Next had carried out proportionate checks in 2019 and made a fair lending decision at that 
time. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings. He reiterated that he felt Next had lent to 
him irresponsibly. As such, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.   
On reviewing the complaint, I wrote to the parties explaining that I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint, albeit for slightly different reasons than those given by the investigator. In 
summary, while I didnt believe that Next had carried out proportionate checks in 2019, I also 
didnt think Mr M had lost out as a result.
Despite being informed of my provisional findings on the matter, Mr M asked me to issue a 
formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Next was required to complete proportionate affordability checks prior to advancing credit to 
Mr M. Whats considered proportionate will vary in each case as it is unique to each lending 
decision. In deciding how thorough a check should be, Next needed to consider things such 
as (but not limited to) the amount of credit being advanced, the type of credit, the size and 
frequency of the repayments, the cost of the borrowing and Mr Ms personal circumstances.
I can see that Next did obtain some information about Mr Ms financial circumstances in 
2019 from CRAs. This showed, among other things, that Mr M was broadly coping financially 
and with his existing levels of credit. The CRA investigation showed he hadnt had a default 
recorded against him for at least 23 months before the credit application. 
However, I cant see that Next held any information about Mr Ms level of income. I think 
such information would have formed part of any reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks Next ought to have carried out at that time. After all, Mr M would have been able to 
borrow up to £600 as a result of Nexts lending decision. Without any information whatsoever 
about Mr Ms income, Im unsure as to how it could have reasonably assessed his ability to 
repay the credit. It was possible, as far as Next was aware, that Mr M had little or even no 
income. Because of this, Im not persuaded that Nexts checks were appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
That said, before upholding the complaint Id need to be satisfied that Mr M lost out because 
of the lack of adequate checks Next had carried out. And Im not satisfied that he did. I say 
that because Im not persuaded that the further checks Ive mentioned would have revealed 
anything of concern for Next. While I think Next should have enquired as to Mr Ms income, 
hes told us that his net monthly income in 2019 was around £1,440. The bank statements 
Mr M has provided from 2019 indicate to me that he often earned slightly more than that 
amount and that this was a regular and stable income. I have no reason to think this would 
have been insufficient income to meet the credit advanced by Next, his credit commitments 
elsewhere and his essential household spending.
So, I dont think Next acted unfairly in advancing £600 worth of credit to Mr M even though it 
didnt carry out sufficient checks at that time.
Mr Ms sent us his credit report from May 2023, and I thank him for this. But I dont consider 
that the level of credit advanced, or the other surrounding circumstances, warranted Next 
requesting, or having sight of, a credit report before making its lending decision.
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr Ms told us regarding his gambling activities. But I 
cant see that he made Next aware of those issues at the time of the lending in 2019 or that 
it ought to have been aware of his gambling activities through its own checks. Although I 
acknowledge the bank statements Mr Ms sent us seem to show he was gambling regularly, 
I dont consider the circumstances around the borrowing meant Next ought to have had sight 
of those statements prior to advancing the credit to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman