DRN-2160611
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim under 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D are insured under a travel insurance policy, provided by UKI, as a benefit of a
bank account.
Unfortunately, while on holiday abroad, Mr and Mrs D learned that their son was very
seriously ill. They returned home and made a claim with UKI for their additional costs, as
well as for their unused expenses.
Sadly, Mr and Mrs Ds son subsequently passed away.
UKI said it needed a claim form to be completed by Mr and Mrs Ds sons GP, but the GP
refused to fill in the form. So, UKI reviewed the available medical information and sent Mr D
a letter saying his policy didnt cover claims relating to family members who had received
inpatient treatment, were on a waiting list for inpatient treatment or had been given a
terminal prognosis in the 12 months before booking a trip. UKI said, as the medical
information it had didnt clarify whether or not Mr and Mrs Ds son had been an inpatient
within this 12 month period, it wasnt able to proceed with the claim.
In further conversations with Mr D, UKI explored the possibility of obtaining information from
the hospital that had treated Mr and Mrs Ds son. UKI also provided Mr and Mrs D with
information about how to access the medical records of a person who has passed away, but
a letter sent in connection with the request was returned. Ultimately, UKI maintained its
position that it couldnt proceed with the claim without further medical evidence.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator issued a number of opinions on this case. Initially, she said she didnt think
there was any evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs Ds son had been an inpatient in the 12
months prior to booking the trip. So, she asked UKI to re-assess Mr and Mrs Ds claim and
pay interest. UKI responded to say it hadnt declined the claim, but it needed additional
information in order to proceed with considering the matter any further. UKI provided a link to
a website containing information to allow Mr and Mrs D to access their sons medical
records.
Mr and Mrs D then obtained further medical information. Our investigator recommended that
UKI should re-assess the claim in light of this new evidence, and pay £250 compensation
because of its failure to provide information to Mr D about how to access the medical records
sooner. UKI said it was prepared to pay £200 compensation. But it said it required medical 
information spanning an earlier period of time in order to make a decision about Mr and Mrs 
Ds claim.
Mr and Mrs D subsequently provided additional medical information, which our investigator
sent to UKI to consider. She said she thought UKI should pay the claim, as well as the £200
compensation that had already been offered. UKI disagreed and referred to a number of
other exclusions in Mr and Mrs Ds insurance policy, which it said meant their claim wasnt
covered.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Ds complaint was passed to me. I made 
my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ds complaint in July 2020. In it, I said:
Im very sorry to hear about the sad circumstances that led to this complaint, and Id like to
offer Mr and Mrs D my condolences for their loss.
Ill address UKIs claims decision and its handling of Mr and Mrs Ds claim in turn.
UKIs claims decision
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds policy provide cover of up to £5,000 per person
in the event that a holiday is curtailed because of the serious illness of an immediate family
member.
However, in common with most travel insurance policies, there are restrictions on the cover
provided for claims relating to non-travelling relatives who are not insured under the policy. I
understand Mr and Mrs D werent given an opportunity to declare that their son had an
illness previously. However, I wouldnt have expected UKI to ask any such questions. The
risk presented by any pre-existing illnesses of a non-travelling relative who isnt insured
under the policy isnt something which insurers generally wish to insure and, instead, the
level of cover is commonly limited by exclusions which are set out in the policy terms and
conditions.
UKI initially said it couldnt proceed to consider Mr and Mrs Ds claim based on the following
policy exclusion, which says no cover is provided for:
A medical condition of a  member of your immediate family  which has resulted
in that person being a hospital inpatient or being put on a waiting list for hospital
treatment in the 12 months before the start of this insurance or you booking the
journey, whichever is later.
If an insurer is seeking to rely on a policy exclusion to decline a claim then its up to the
insurer to demonstrate, on the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion applies. Its not the
case, as UKI has incorrectly argued, that Mr and Mrs D need to prove what the proximate
cause of the claim is.
Mr and Mrs D have held this policy since May 2015 and, according to UKIs claims notes, Mr
and Mrs Ds trip was booked in either September or October 2018. So, Mr and Mrs Ds claim
isnt covered under their policy if their son was a hospital inpatient or on a waiting list for
hospital treatment in between September/October 2017 and September/October 2018.
Ive reviewed all the medical evidence available, and I dont think any of this demonstrates
that Mr and Mrs Ds son was a hospital inpatient or was awaiting hospital treatment during
the period in question. While UKI has pointed to the content of a hospital letter dated
February 2019 as concerning, and has mentioned a clinical trial, I dont think there is any
evidence which would reasonably entitle UKI to rely on the first policy exclusion it quoted
when considering Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
However, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I dont think their claim is covered
because of a different policy exclusion which UKI has now raised.The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds policy say it will not pay claims which are as a
result of:
A terminal prognosis being given toa member of your immediate family prior to the
journey being booked or the insurance being taken out.
I think both the wording, and the intention of, this policy exclusion are clear: UKI does not
wish to provide cover for claims arising from situations where a terminal prognosis has been
given to a family member.
The medical evidence in this case clearly indicates that Mr and Mrs Ds son had a terminal
prognosis before the holiday was booked. In reaching this conclusion, Ive relied on extracts
from GP records which mention the patient being in a terminal phase of the condition on 19
October 2017 and 2 July 2018. This means I dont think Mr and Mrs Ds claim is covered
under their policy because it falls under the terminal prognosis exclusion.
The wording of the exclusion in the contract between Mr and Mrs D differs from that quoted
by UKI in their final response letter. The policy exclusion doesnt mention any timeframe
within which a terminal prognosis has been given. It would have been helpful if UKI had
relied on the correct policy exclusion from the outset, and if UKI had quoted its policy
wording more accurately in its final response letter. However, this doesnt alter the fact that
the policy excludes the claim and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which
I could fairly ask UKI to depart from the terms of the contract.
As I dont think the claim is covered under the terminal prognosis, I dont think its
necessary to go on to address any of the other policy exclusions which UKI has now also
raised.
UKIs handling of the claim
Relevant regulatory guidance (the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of
Business Sourcebook) says an insurer must:
handle claims promptly and fairly;
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim, and provide
appropriate information on its progress; and
not unreasonably reject a claim.
I dont think UKI handled this claim as it should have. While UKI maintains it didnt initially
decline Mr and Mrs Ds claim  it just said it needed further information  I dont think this
was a fair position to leave Mr and Mrs D in.
As Ive already explained above, if UKI wishes to rely on a policy exclusion to decline a
claim, then its up to UKI to provide evidence that the exclusion applies.
I dont think UKI had the evidence to do this. And I think UKI should have relied on the
correct exclusion relating to this claim from April 2019, which it first became aware that Mr
and Mrs Ds son had a terminal illness.
UKI was made aware that Mr and Mrs Ds son had sadly passed away in April 2019, so I
think it should have provided Mr D with guidance and assistance about proceeding with the
claim much sooner, by giving him correct information about how to request medical records
relating to persons who have passed away.I think UKIs handling of this case has caused delays in making a claims decision and has
caused Mr and Mrs D to be inconvenienced by getting further information which they never
needed. This can only have caused them further distress at an already difficult time.
I think a payment at the higher end of the scale we classify as moderate would be fair
compensation in the circumstances.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr and Mrs D were hoping for but I hope my explanation
has been helpful to their understanding of why I intend to reach this conclusion.
So, my provisional decision was that UKI should pay Mr and Mrs D a total of £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they experienced. 
Both Mr and Mrs D and UKI responded to my provisional decision with additional comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D say they dont think the exclusion relating to a terminal prognosis of an 
immediate family member, which UKI is now relying upon to turn down their claim, is clearly 
highlighted to policyholders and that UKI should have mentioned this exclusion sooner. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ds comments, but I think the exclusion in question is 
sufficiently clear within the policy terms and conditions. Unfortunately, this isnt an unusual 
exclusion in the travel insurance market. So, even if I were to accept that the exclusion 
should have been more clearly highlighted to Mr and Mrs D, this wouldnt change my 
decision as I think its extremely unlikely theyd have been able to find cover elsewhere for 
the circumstances they found themselves in. 
In response to my provisional decision, UKI queried the timing of events upon which I based 
my intended compensation award.  
At the time of issuing its final response letter, UKI was aware of the broader circumstances 
surrounding Mr and Mrs Ds sons passing. UKI was also aware at this point that Mr and 
Mrs Ds sons GP was refusing to complete the forms UKI had sent. Furthermore, UKIs final 
response letter didnt quote the applicable exclusion correctly, which led Mr and Mrs D to 
think they had a valid claim.  
So, I dont think UKI handled Mr and Mrs Ds claim fairly, and I dont think UKI provided Mr 
and Mrs D with reasonable guidance about their claim in line with regulatory guidance. The 
compensation Im recommending is for the distress and inconvenience arising from this.  
Putting things right
UKI needs to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs D a total of £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience they experienced. This includes the £200 compensation which 
UKI has already offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint in part. Im directing U K 
Insurance Limited to put things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman