DRN-2728813
The complaint
Mr M complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank defaulted his loan.
What happened
Mr M took out a loan with Tesco Bank in 2017. He made his regular monthly payment by 
direct debit, but a missed payment in July 2019 caused his account to go into arrears. He 
called to make the arrears payment in September 2019. But when the direct debit was due 
to be taken for his normal September 2019 payment it failed. In October, Tesco Bank twice 
attempted to take the monthly payment. Only one of the attempts was successful and this 
payment was allocated to the October payment. As a result, the September 2019 went 
unpaid.
Tesco Bank sent notices about his account being in arrears to the address it held on file. It 
sent late payment notices to him on 21 September 2019 and 17 October 2019 and a default 
notice to on 19 February 2020 giving Mr M 28 days to make the outstanding payment. It also 
sent multiple emails. When Mr M didnt contact it or make the payment it applied a default to 
the account.
Mr M no longer lives at the address to which the notices were sent but his mother still does 
so, Mr M periodically collects post from the address. When Mr M spoke to Tesco Bank in 
September 2019 he gave, as part of the security checks, his mothers address as his 
address and didnt tell it he had moved. Mr M says he didnt receive the letters Tesco Bank 
sent about the arrears or default until much later.
Mr M thinks Tesco Bank should had tried to contact him by telephone or by text message, 
and therefore the default would have been avoided. Mr M also said that Tesco Bank tried to 
contact him by email, but he didnt see the email as it went into his junk folder and not his 
inbox.
Mr M says the situation has had a detrimental effect on his mental health. And the default 
would affect his opportunity to re-mortgage his property as well as not being able to obtain 
credit. This has caused him distress, anxiety and worry for the future.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt Tesco Bank had done 
what hed have expected it to do in sending the missed payment letters and the default 
notice to the address it had registered on its systems. He also noted it sent an email to the 
email address Mr M had provided. So, he didnt think it was wrong for it register a default. He 
understood that Mr M felt let down by not receiving a phone call or text, but he felt Tesco 
Bank had done enough by trying to contact him both by letter and by email.
Mr M disagreed he said he complained that the default was applied without it applying any 
discretion to his mitigating circumstances. He says, due to his mothers age and worries 
about Covid-19, he didnt visit her after the default notice was sent on 19 February. He 
insists Tesco should have tried to contact him by phone and that he knew nothing about the 
problem as Tesco Bank was continuing to take his usual monthly payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that the default has caused a detrimental effect on Mr Ms mental health. I 
agree, however, with the investigator that I cant see that Tesco Bank did anything wrong. 
Tesco Bank has a duty to report true and accurate information to credit reference agencies. 
It is a fact that Mr M missed payments. It is a fact that the account defaulted after one 
payment went unpaid for six months. The default happened after a default notice and two 
late payment letters were sent to the address Mr M gave Tesco Bank. It is Mr Ms 
responsibility to update the address. It is not Tesco Banks responsibility to phone him if it 
doesnt get a response. It is also Mr Ms responsibility to ensure all payments are made on 
time. I appreciate Mr M says he couldnt visit his mother due to issues with the pandemic. 
The date of the letter, doesnt however, quite match the timeline of the lockdown. The letter 
was sent on 19 February and lockdown was more than a month later. Given Mr M was still 
using his mothers address for his correspondence it was his up to him to check for his 
correspondence. So, I dont think I could say Tesco made a mistake or treated him unfairly. 
I appreciate what I have said will be a disappointment to Mr M. He does have the option to 
ask credit reference agencies to put a notice of correction on his file. Here he will be able to 
explain the circumstances of the default. Any potential lender will also be able to see that he 
continued to make payments.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman