DRN-3430846
The complaint and what happened
Mr A complains Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse money he lost as a result of scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr A received a call from OBTFX offering an investment opportunity. He was 
persuaded to invest, and between 11 August and 18 August 2020, he invested nearly 
£3,500. He invested via Cryptonet.exchange, a cryptocurrency exchange. In 
September 2020, he received back £212, so his total loss is £3,279 (the investigator 
mistakenly listed the credit as a debit in their view).  
Mr A realised hed been scammed when he couldnt access his account, and calls 
and emails not responded to. Although he was later contacted to say the website had 
been under maintenance and the business had changed name, when asked for more 
money, Mr A was suspicious. And so he raised a chargeback through Monzo. 
It declined the chargeback as there were no chargeback rights under Mastercards 
scheme. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She was satisfied there were no 
chargeback rights, and she didnt think the payments were unusual such that they 
ought to have triggered Monzos security systems. 
Mr A has asked for an ombudsmans decision. In doing so, hes cited the Banking 
Protocol, the BSI:PAS 17271:2017 code of practice and whats known as the 
Quincecare duty  deriving from the Barclays Bank plc V Quincecare Ltd judgment.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
bank should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payments rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. There is no dispute that Mr A made 
the payments, and so they were authorised. 
The investigator is right that there are no chargeback rights under Mastercards 
scheme for the payments Mr A made. The rights in relation to investments are 
extremely limited and do not cover the allegation made by Mr A. In any event, Mr A 
didnt pay the scammer directly, but paid through a crypto currency exchange. Once 
Mr As money went through the exchange it would be deemed the service had been 
provided. In that situation a chargeback had no reasonable prospect of success. 
Mr A has cited the Banking Protocol and UK Finances toolkit. However, those 
provisions relate to branch transactions and so arent relevant here. He has also 
cited BSI:PAS 17271:2017 and the Quincecare judgment. We are aware of this court 
case and of the code of practice and are taken into account when reaching our 
outcomes and decisions. So I have borne these in mind when deciding whether 
Monzo ought to have done anything more. If it breaches its duty to protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams, Monzo might be liable for its 
customers losses. 
I have therefore considered the operation of Mr As account. In the months leading 
up the transactions in dispute, he was making numerous transactions via various 
different payment methods including by card. He also made international transactions 
and was making payments to other trading platforms and cryptocurrency exchanges. 
He also regularly made a monthly payment in the region of £950 and just a matter of 
days before embarking on this investment opportunity, transferred £3,000 out to a 
savings account with another provider. I therefore dont find any of the payments 
unusual in relation to their size, the largest being just over £1,000.  Overall, I dont 
find the transactions were so unusual or uncharacteristic that they ought to have 
triggered Monzos fraud alert systems, such that it ought to have intervened and 
paused payments to question Mr A about them.
I understand Mr A has lost his savings and its unfortunate hes fallen victim to a 
scam. But as I dont find Monzo ought to have done anything more when executing 
his payment requests, I find no basis on which to ask it to reimburse Mr As losses. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman