DRN-3152430
The complaint
  Mr T complains of irresponsible lending by PayPal (Europe),S.a.r.l. et Cie, S.C.A.(Paypal). 
He would like all charges refunded and his debt written off.
What happened
  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
Before  agreeing to an initial credit application and to credit increases a business 
needs to ensure it does so in a responsible manner. There isnt a set requirement of 
what a business must do in every instance. But they are expected generally to carry 
out appropriate and proportionate borrower focused checks around the affordability 
of any lending, before providing it, and to ensure a borrower can afford to make and 
sustain the repayments, taking account of their financial situation
I have seen Mr Ts initial credit application which stated he lived at home, had an 
unspecified  monthly income between £500-£1000 with monthly outgoings of £0-
£500. I am surprised on this information that PayPal offered an initial credit limit of 
£1000 , more than Mr Ts stated disposable income. I think PayPal should have 
looked in more detail into Mr Ts income and expenditure as the figures Mr T gave 
were so wide ranging and could potentially have left him with a monthly disposable 
income of £0.
In terms of the two credit increases, each of £1000, I appreciate PayPals points that 
Mr T could have declined these, had no negative credit information recorded and 
never missed a payment. But giving the option to decline a credit increase  isnt 
enough reason to justify giving one. And looking at Mr Ts statements whilst he 
always made at least the minimum payment due he was usually almost at the credit 
limit on the card. So, I am not sure how, based on his income, he was ever going to 
be able to reduce or pay off the full balance particularly as Mr T has shown he had 
other live credit cards at this time.
Had PayPal sought more information from Mr T it would have known his income was 
from benefits. Whist that shouldnt preclude him from being given credit its not an 
income that is likely to hugely increase or necessarily continue. So that, combined 
with the vague information Mr T provided on his expenses, and the fact he largely 
only made minimum payments lead me to conclude that PayPal didnt carry out 
appropriate checks both with Mr Ts initial credit application and with the two credit 
increase it gave.
I think its reasonable that PayPal refunds the interest and  charges applied to Mr Ts 
account, but I dont think I can reasonably ask it to write off the balance as Mr T 
would like . Thats because Mr T has had the benefit of the credit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement by PayPal (Europe),S.a.r.l. et Cie, S.C.A. should :-
Reduce Mr Ts outstanding debt by refunding all  interest and charges applied to his 
with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement ensuring 
the remaining debt only consists of the credit Mr T used. If this leads to a surplus on 
the account this should be refunded to Mr T.
Remove any negative information regarding this account on Mr Ts credit file 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman