DRN-3373486
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled his chargeback claim after he 
invested in what he says was a fraudulent firm. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mr P opened an account with company I and deposited £250 using his credit 
card. Mr P says I then took a further £4,750 from his credit card without his authority and 
traded all his money on its platform. This resulted in him losing the majority of the funds and 
he complained to I about this and asked for the transactions to be refunded. In June 2020 he 
withdrew the funds that were left, just over £1,000. 
Mr P reported the problems hed had with I to Barclays and started a chargeback claim. 
Unfortunately it took a long time for Barclays to process this claim and as I disputed it, 
Barclays refunded and then re-debited the amounts in questions more than once. Mr P now 
complains that Barclays hasnt refunded him the amounts when it said it would, and has 
charged him interest on the amounts too.
Barclays says that it pursued a chargeback as far as reasonably possible, but I defended the 
claim and provided evidence Mr P had traded the funds. It also showed he had been able to 
withdraw what was left. I is regulated abroad and has passporting rights into the UK through 
our regulator. Barclays didnt agree it was wrong to re-debit the amount as the chargeback 
hadnt been successful. And it also didnt agree it was wrong to charge interest as Mr P had 
spent this amount. It did however award Mr P £100 for the way the claim had been handled.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as 
she agreed that Barclays had reasonably pursued the chargeback claim but it hadnt 
succeeded. She didnt think Barclays was wrong to re-debit the amounts or charge interest. 
And she said the £100 compensation was fair. Mr P disagreed and said he hadnt agreed to 
the compensation and that he was never told the refund was temporary or could be 
reversed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im in agreement with our investigator that Barclays has handled Mr Ps case fairly. I can 
appreciate why Mr P is frustrated, but in this case, considering the evidence we hold, it does 
seem that he invested with a firm that was genuine, rather than a fraudulent firm. Im not 
saying that the practices used were necessarily ethical or that they marketed themselves to 
Mr P in the correct way, but these things dont mean that they were fraudulent in the sense 
we have to apply. I is real firm that is regulated abroad and it has evidenced that Mr Ps 
funds were used to trade on its platform. I can see in his exchanges with I he expected to 
receive a profit and he didnt, but a customer losing on an investment opportunity doesnt 
mean that the firm itself is fake or fraudulent. The type of investments Mr P was involved in 
are very high risk and do often result in consumer losses. And we dont hold any evidence 
which shows Mr P didnt carry out the trades himself, the data shows his IP address. 
In relation to Barclays actions, I can see the £100 compensation credit on Mr Ps statements, 
so Im satisfied he received this in August 2020. And I dont consider hes due a further 
award. The letter from August 2020, where this payment is awarded, explains that the 
temporary credit from May 2020 has been re-debited, so even if Mr P was uncertain before 
this date about how a chargeback claim worked, it was clear from this point on.
As the chargeback claim wasnt successful Barclays is entitled to charge him interest on the 
full amount he spent - £5,000. Ive considered Mr Ps testimony that he didnt authorise the 
larger payment, but Im not persuaded this was an unauthorised transaction. Mr P writes to I 
and asks for the transactions to be returned to him shortly after first opening the account, 
suggesting hes accepting that more than one was sent. I havent seen any evidence he 
disputed such a large sum when it was first taken from his card, his messages to I focus on 
not making a profit rather than stolen funds. And Id have expected him to raise this with 
Barclays as soon as it happened, rather than later and as part of a chargeback for the 
investment firm not being genuine.
Barclays has fairly handled the chargeback claim, as its presented Mr Ps evidence to the 
merchant and asked for the money to be returned. When this was disputed its challenged 
this, but again the merchant defended the claim.
Based on the evidence available Im satisfied Barclays took the chargeback claim as far as it 
needed to, and it wasnt unreasonable for it to not push the case to arbitration with VISA. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and I think Barclays did what was required of it. I accept 
Mr Ps disappointment that the claim failed and the funds have been re-debited from his 
card, but as his claim lost he does need to pay the amount. Even accepting this wasnt made 
clear to him at the start, this is how chargeback works. So Barclays needing to make this 
clearer doesnt change that he owes the funds and always has done. So Im not directing 
Barclays to award Mr P any further funds or to credit his account for the disputed amounts.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman