DRN-3405393
The complaint
Mr S complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA has recorded his credit agreement as 
a credit card on his credit file and that its reduced his credit limit.
What happened
I issued a provisional decisional on this complaint in March 2022 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr S entered into a credit agreement with PayPal in July 2019 for running account 
credit with a credit limit of £750. PayPal reduced his credit limit in June 2021 and Mr 
S complained to it about that reduction and that his agreement was showing on his 
credit file as a credit card.
It said that the agreement was for running account credit, with similar features to a 
credit card, even though no credit card is issued, so its classified in the same 
category as a credit card for reporting to the credit reference agencies. It said that it 
wrote to Mr S to advise that it had reduced his credit limit from £750 to £350 with 
effect from the previous day under section 1.6 of the agreement and that it wasnt 
possible for it to be increased. Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained 
to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld in part. She said 
that Mr Ss agreement isnt a fixed credit agreement, but running account credit, and 
that PayPal had recorded it correctly on his credit file. She didnt think that PayPal 
had treated Mr S fairly when reducing his credit limit and she recommended that it 
should: refund any additional interest or charges that Mr S had incurred as a result of 
the credit limit decrease, with interest; remove any negative markers relating to the 
credit limit decrease from Mr Ss credit file; and pay him £150 compensation for the 
stress and confusion caused.
Mr S accepted those recommendations but he says that PayPal has blocked him 
from making payments to his account. PayPal has asked for this complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
I set out in that provisional decision the following reasons that I considered that Mr Ss 
complaint should be upheld:
the credit agreement provides Mr S with running account credit and works in a 
way that is similar to a credit card even though no credit card is issued and Im 
not persuaded that PayPal has acted incorrectly in classifying the agreement in 
the same category as credit cards for reporting to the credit reference agencies;
section 1.6 of the credit agreement says: We may also reduce your Credit Limit if 
we believe there is a risk you cannot repay, your credit usage is not sustainable 
or if there is another risk to us. We will usually give you notice of this beforehand 
but may do so without notice if appropriate to do so. Your Credit Limit will not be 
reduced below the outstanding balance, including any pending transactions;
PayPal reduced Mr Ss credit limit from £750 to £350 in June 2021  the closing 
balance on his account shown on the statement that was issued to him in early 
June 2021, and which was dated the day before PayPal says that it decided to 
reduce his credit limit, was £308.01;
Mr S had made a payment to his account of £436.34 in May 2021 but that 
payment was reversed at some time between the date of that statement and the 
date of the next statement;
the effect of that was that Mr Ss account went above the reduced limit of £350 
and the balance shown on the statement that was issued to him in early July 
2021 was £769.48;
PayPal says that the payment was reversed on the same day that the decision to 
reduce his credit limit was made and I dont consider that it was fair or reasonable 
for it to reduce his credit limit at that time as the outstanding balance of his 
account after the reversal had been made was more than his credit limit;
section 1.6 says PayPal will usually give notice of a reduction of a credit limit but: 
  may do so without notice if appropriate to do so;
PayPal has explained the reasons that it decided to reduce Mr Ss credit limit  
and I consider that it had good reasons for wanting to do so  but I consider that 
it would have been fair and reasonable for it to have given Mr S reasonable 
notice of the reduction of his credit limit and I dont consider that its provided 
enough evidence to show that it was appropriate for it to reduce his credit limit 
without notice in these circumstances;
I dont consider that PayPal has acted fairly or reasonably in these circumstances 
and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to reinstate Mr Ss credit limit 
of £750 and to rework his account as if his credit limit hadnt been reduced in 
June 2021 (which would include removing any additional interest and charges 
that have been applied to the account as a result of the credit limit being reduced) 
and, if that gives the account a credit balance, to refund the credit balance to Mr 
S (with interest for any period that the account was in credit at an annual rate of 
8% simple);
I also find that it would be fair and reasonable for PayPal to remove any adverse 
information that its recorded on Mr Ss credit file between June 2021 and the 
date of this decision that it wouldnt have recorded if his credit limit had remained 
at £750; and
these events will have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr S and I find that 
it would also be fair and reasonable for PayPal to pay him £150 to compensate 
him for that distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further representations by Mr S or PayPal, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. PayPal has responded to my provisional decision 
in detail and has explained why it considered that it was appropriate for it to reduce Mr Ss 
credit limit without notice. It says that the payment that was reversed appears to have been 
done in error, and to re-instate Mr Ss credit limit wouldnt be responsible lending and its 
likely that it would immediately be reduced again. To resolve Mr Ss complaint it has offered 
to make a one-off goodwill payment of £450 to recognise the time he has spent dealing with 
this complaint. Mr S says that he accepts that offer..What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that PayPals offer to pay £450 to Mr S is fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances and Mr S says that he accepts that offer. 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for PayPal to pay £450 to Mr S.
My final decision
My decision is that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA should pay £450 to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman