DRN-3499154
The complaint
Mr V complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim he made on a group 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr V was insured under his employers group income protection policy. The policy provided 
Mr V with cover for his own occupation for two years and then for any occupation. The 
specified deferred period was 26 weeks.
In November 2019, Mr V began to suffer from dizziness, shortness of breath and light-
headedness. He was assessed by an ear, nose and throat specialist, a neurologist and by a 
cardiac consultant. The cardiac consultant diagnosed Mr V with a blockage and prescribed 
medication. They felt Mr Vs shortness of breath was likely to be caused by anxiety.
Mr V began to suffer further symptoms and panic attacks. He was signed-off of work on 4 
March 2020 and in April 2020, he was prescribed anti-anxiety medication. His employers 
occupational health (OH) provider felt Mr V was fit for work in early June 2020 and so he 
returned to work on 7 June 2020. However, unfortunately, Mr V began to suffer further panic 
attacks and he was signed-off of work again on 5 October 2020. At this point, his employers 
OH provider concluded that Mr V wasnt fit for work. Mr V was prescribed with a different 
anti-anxiety medication and he also self-referred for cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). Mr 
Vs employer made an incapacity claim on his behalf.
Unum assessed Mr Vs claim. It agreed to link Mr Vs two periods of absence and concluded 
that his deferred period would end on 29 December 2020. It reviewed the medical evidence 
provided by Mr Vs GP and by OH and it ultimately decided to turn down the claim. It didnt 
think there was evidence that Mr V had a significant, impairing mental health condition or 
that he had an underlying psychological illness that was severe enough to prevent him from 
working.
Mr V was unhappy with Unums decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. He considered the policy 
terms and he assessed the available medical evidence. While he acknowledged Mr V had 
been ill, he noted that Mr Vs GP hadnt referred him to a specialist. So he didnt think Mr V 
had shown hed been incapacitated and therefore, he concluded itd been fair for Unum to 
turn down his claim.
Mr V disagreed. He said itd been his GPs decision not to refer him to a specialist and that 
the GP had indicated that they wouldve done so but for Covid-19.  Hed been insured for 
loss of income due to sickness and thats what had happened to him. He felt hed been 
treated unfairly by the decline of his genuine claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr V, I think it was fair for Unum to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
As the investigator said, the relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, 
amongst other things, the terms of Mr Vs policy and the available medical evidence, to 
decide whether Unum handled Mr Vs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Vs policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Unum. Mr Vs employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity benefit, given 
he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Unum to consider 
whether Mr Vs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look Unums 
definition of incapacity. This says:
(i) If a member is not required by his terms of employment or by his partnership agreement 
to hold a licence or certificate which is issued only when the member meets certain medical 
standards, and
(1) For the deferred period and the first 2 years following the completion of the
deferred period, if
(a) Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to
perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation, and
(b) the member is not following any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 5.3,
then the member is incapacitated.
This means that in order for Unum to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a 
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out the main duties of their own 
occupation. In Mr Vs case, it means that Unum needs to be satisfied that his illness 
prevented him from performing the material and substantial duties of his role.
Its a general principle of insurance that its a policyholders responsibility to show they have 
a valid claim on their policy. This means it was Mr Vs responsibility to provide Unum with 
enough evidence to show that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out the 
material and substantial duties of his role.
Unum assessed the evidence Mr V provided in support of his claim and concluded that it 
didnt indicate that he had a significant, impairing mental health condition or that he met the 
policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the available medical evidence to 
assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Unum to draw.
The policy says that payment of benefit will begin on the first day after the end of the 
deferred period and will continue to be paid for the duration of the incapacity. This means 
that in order for benefit to be paid, a policyholder mustve been incapacitated in line with the 
policy terms, for the entire deferred period and afterwards.
Mr Vs deferred period ended after 26 weeks from 4 March 2020, and the benefit became 
payable under the policy from 29 December 2020. So for the claim to be payable, Mr V 
needed to provide Unum with medical evidence to show that he had been prevented from 
carrying out the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation because of an 
illness.Unum requested evidence from Mr Vs GP and Mr V provided evidence of his reviews with 
his employers OH. Unum noted that Mr V had been diagnosed with a cardiac condition 
following investigations and he had been prescribed medication. But I can see from the 
consultant cardiologists letter dated 21 January 2020 that (their) strong suspicion is that this 
gentleman is suffering with symptoms of anxiety. And on 17 February 2020, the cardiac 
consultant also stated that the breathlessness that (Mr V) describes is only occurring at rest 
and I have explained to him that I think this is more a psychological symptom than a clinical 
one.
Moreover, the OH report, dated 4 June 2020, said that it had been determined that: (Mr Vs 
symptoms have been predominantly stress and anxiety related. The OH clinician stated:
(Mr V) reports no issues with concentration or motivation levels, however, he does report 
some anxiety about going out, due to Covid-19 situation and that he remains susceptible to 
increased feelings of anxiety, with panic related physical symptoms, at times of any 
unexpected/ad-hoc stressful/worrying situations, or events. 
At this point, the OH clinician concluded that Mr V was fit to return to work.
A second OH report, dated 2 October 2020, stated: The employee confirms a diagnosis of a 
blocked left anterior descending (LAD) artery to his heart. He has required no surgery, has 
no planned future surgery, is under annual review from a specialist and takes standard
medications as prescribed. Medical knowledge suggests that this condition is unlikely to 
cause functional restriction at this time.
Taking into account the available medical evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Unum to conclude that it was anxiety and panic-attacks which had led to Mr V being signed-
off sick, rather than the cardiac condition. I say that because the evidence suggests that Mr 
Vs cardiac condition was managed with medication and the main discussions Mr V had with 
OH in particular seem to have focused in on the anxiety and panic attacks he suffered.
Theres no doubt that Mr V was signed-off sick from work with panic attacks and anxiety. I 
can see from the GPs notes that he was prescribed at least a 28-day prescription for anti-
anxiety medication in early April 2020. But theres no indication at this point that he was 
referred to a specialist mental health practitioner or that medication was prescribed on an 
ongoing basis. Neither did the GP indicate how Mr Vs symptoms left him unable to carry out 
the material and substantial duties of his occupation.
I can see from the GPs absence note and an OH report dated 2 October 2020, that Mr V 
wasnt considered fit to work because hed suffered further panic attacks and anxiety. By this 
point, the OH clinician recorded: 
He confirms that he was in work but obtained a fit note from his GP dated from the 2nd 
October 2020 until the 2nd December 2020. He has anxiety, is under the care of the GP, has 
self referred into.service and is due to undertake CBT (cognitive behavioural therapy). He 
has just started taking anti anxiety medication, as prescribed, a week ago.
Mr V underwent further reviews with OH and requested further notes from his GP which 
confirmed he wasnt fit to work. Mr V also travelled abroad, where he was treated with 
another anti-anxiety medication. Mr V says that he underwent online CBT during this period, 
which helped with his symptoms.
Unum assessed the available medical evidence, including with clinical members of staff. It 
noted that the GP had never provided detailed symptoms of a functional impairment; that Mr 
V had requested renewals of his absence notes without further discussion with the GP; thered been no specialist referral and that the symptoms Mr V discussed with the OH were 
self-reported. While Unum sympathised with Mr Vs position, it concluded that he wasnt 
suffering from a mental illness which prevented him from carrying out his role. It didnt 
consider that he was suffering with a significant mental health condition of a severity which 
affected his day-to-day ability to function.
Ive thought very carefully about this. Its clear that Mr V was suffering from symptoms which 
can also be indicative of a significant mental health condition. But Ive also noted that theres 
nothing to suggest the GP ever referred Mr V to psychological services. The evidence from 
the OH in June 2020 suggested that Mr Vs anxiety was likely down to concerns about 
Covid-19 and his health. And while I appreciate Mr V says he underwent CBT; it seems this 
was via self-referral through his employer rather than through Mr Vs GP. I also need to bear 
in mind that it appears that from October 2020 onwards, Mr Vs fit note requests were made 
online and there dont seem to have been appointments after September 2020 to discuss his 
condition. Ive considered too that while the OH evidence has been provided by clinicians; it 
focuses on Mr Vs fitness to work given his self-reported symptoms.
And theres simply no indication from the GP how or why Mr Vs symptoms wouldve 
prevented him from carrying out the substantial and material duties of his role. On that basis 
then, I dont think Unum acted unfairly when it decided that Mr V wasnt suffering from a 
significant mental health condition, during the deferred period and afterwards, which 
prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial duties of his occupation.
So overall, despite my natural sympathy for Mr Vs position, I find it was fair and reasonable 
for Unum to turn down his income protection claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman