DRN-4179837
The complaint
Ms L complains about how British Gas Insurance Limited dealt with her claim when her 
washing machine broke down.
What happened
Ms W has a HomeCare Four policy with British Gas which covers her boiler, controls and 
central heating including an annual service, plus repairs to plumbing, drains, home electrics 
and kitchen appliances. In September 2022 her washing machine broke down and she 
contacted British Gas to arrange a repair. 
British Gas sent an engineer to deal with the repair, but he wasnt able to do this as he said 
parts needed to be ordered.
Ms W was unhappy about the delay in arranging the repair as she has children and without a 
working washing machine she was having to use a laundrette once a week to wash their 
school uniforms.
Ms W called British Gas a number of times about the delay. On 12 October 2022 she called 
and said she was told by the first engineer that parts were required. Shed chased about this 
and was told theyd take about 10 days. An appointment had been booked for 12 October 
2022 and she expected the repair to be completed. But when the engineer arrived he didnt 
have the required parts and told her an engineer from the manufacturer would be needed to 
complete the repair. Ms W isnt happy that this call dropped out before the conversation 
finished.
On 15 October 2022 British Gas called Ms W and offered her £73.60 for her laundry bills. 
She didnt accept this as she wanted the matter investigated, as she was still waiting for her 
washing machine to be repaired.
British Gas raised a complaint for her about the delays and the poor service shed received. 
They called her about her complaint on 20 October 2022 and followed up the call with a 
letter sent on the same date.
They accepted that the level of service Ms W had received fell below what theyd expect. 
And in light of this and the problems shed had as a result of this they agreed to provide her 
with a new washing machine and to cover the delivery costs, and the costs of disposal of her 
old machine as a gesture of goodwill.
British Gas have told us that Ms W was happy to accept their offer to resolve her complaint. 
As under the terms and conditions of her policy, where a new appliance is required and the 
original appliance is over three years old, as Ms Ws washing machine was, she was only 
entitled to a 30% contribution towards the cost of the new appliance. And delivery and 
installation costs werent covered.
Ms W then complained to our service as she said she was still waiting to hear from British 
Gas whod told her theyd authorise a voucher for £600 to cover a replacement washing 
machine, installation costs and disposal of her old machine. She was told shed receive an 
email in 24 to 48 hours, but she didnt receive this so had to chase. She then received the 
email and started the process of ordering a new machine. She had to wait 48 hours for a 
further call back and was then told the voucher wasnt for £600 and installation and recycling 
of her old machine werent included.
Our investigator considered the case and asked British Gas how theyd valued Ms Ws 
washing machine, how they determined the age of her old machine and what steps she 
needed to take to accept their offer.
They told us theyd never agree a replacement value of £600. They simply used this figure 
as an illustration for Ms W, saying that if her washing machine was worth £600 shed receive 
a voucher for this amount. They said their engineer would determine the age of the 
appliance, but if Ms W believed it was less than three years old she could produce a receipt 
to show this. But they had agreed to cover the cost of a replacement machine and 
installation and disposal charges. And to accept the offer Ms W needed to contact their 
suppliers whose details she had been sent.
Our investigator then asked British Gas for confirmation of the value theyd put on Ms Ws 
washing machine, as they said they needed this information to consider if the settlement 
offer was fair. 
British Gas provided a valuation for Ms Ws old machine of £327.22 with installation charges 
of £25 and disposal charges of £20. Which they said would be covered in full.
Our investigator spoke to Ms W who said that following her conversation with British Gas in 
October, as shed never received the promised voucher, shed spoken to British Gas and 
was told this would be escalated. Shes told us that the case handler was rude to her, didnt 
want to talk to her as he said she was abrupt, and he told her hes just returned from 
bereavement leave. She left a voicemail for him but he never called her back. So shed 
bought a washing machine costing £529.00. With delivery, installation, and disposal charges 
she paid a total of £594.00. And she told us this was the least she wanted to resolve her 
complaint.
Our investigator tried to mediate a settlement with British Gas for Ms W, but they maintained 
that theyd never offered £600 and Ms W was only entitled to a replacement of an equivalent 
value to her old washing machine. And when asked for a copy of the call in which the 
settlement offer was made British Gas told us this wasnt available.
Our investigator felt the offer to replace Ms Ws washing was reasonable, given the delays 
has caused her great inconvenience, and as her policy only covered her for 30% of the cost 
of a replacement. He considered what both parties had said about the offer British Gas 
made Ms W. And said that on balance, it the absence of a call recording, he believed Ms W 
was being honest about being offered up to £600. And he thought British Gas may have 
been unclear about what they were offering her to put things right.
So he upheld Ms Ws complaint. He said Ms W acted reasonably by purchasing a washing 
machine within the £600 limit she believed had been offered. And he said British Gas should 
pay Ms W the £594 she paid for her new washing machine, but no further compensation, as 
this amount was reasonable to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shed 
experienced. 
Ms W accepted our investigators opinion but British Gas didnt. They maintain that at no 
point was Ms W offered a settlement of £600. They say this figure was only used as an 
example. And also that her policy only covers replacing an appliance, it doesnt cover any upgrades.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas have accepted that the service they provided to Ms W when her washing 
machine broke down wasnt acceptable. So I need to consider what would be a reasonable 
level of compensation. And whether its fair to say British Gas should pay Ms W the £594 
she paid for her new washing machine to resolve her complaint.  
In respect of kitchen appliances Ms Ws policy says Whats covered. A contribution towards 
a replacement if we cant repair it or we decide it will cost less to replace than to repair. Well 
source the replacement from our approved supplier and make the following contribution 
based on their current retail selling price: 100% if your appliance is less than three years old. 
30% if your appliance is three years old or more.
It's not disputed that British Gas offered 100% rather than the 30% they say Ms W was due 
as her machine was over three years old. Ms W has suggested the machine was under 
three years old but hasnt provided any evidence of this. 
But what amount should Ms W receive? British Gas maintain that it should be the 
replacement cost of her old machine, as the policy doesnt cover upgrades. So they say she 
should receive £372.22 inclusive of installation and disposal of her old machine.
But this ignores what Ms W has told us about the offer British Gas made. As British Gas 
cant provide a copy of the call in which the offer was made I can only decide on the balance 
of probabilities what I think was discussed.
I dont think Ms W would simply have come up with a figure £600 if this wasnt mentioned 
during the call. She had no reason to as she wasnt going to be buying a new washing 
machine, British Gas were arranging to replace her old one. British Gas may have intended 
to use the figure of £600 as an illustration, but thats not what Ms W took from the call. I 
accept her evidence that she believed she was being offered a voucher for £600 to replace 
her washing machine, inclusive of installation and disposal of her old machine.
Had she then been able to go ahead and order a replacement washing machine through 
British Gass suppliers then I think the misunderstanding, if thats what it was, would have 
been resolved, as when she was ordering a replacement shed have been told what 
machines were available to her. 
But there were further delays and on 31 October 2022, after being without her washing 
machine for over a month, Ms W bought a replacement. I think it was reasonable for her do 
this, given what shes told us about the difficulties of being without a washing machine. And 
she kept within the amount she believed British Gas had agreed, including the £20 which 
she was charged for delivery.
Given the initial delays, the poorly handled calls, the alternative arrangements Ms W had to 
make to do her washing, the cost and inconvenience of this and the further delays in 
organising the replacement washing machine, Im persuaded that it was reasonable for Ms 
W to pay £594 for her new machine. As this was within the amount she believed British Gas 
had agreed shed receive a voucher for to order a replacement.I dont accept their argument that they shouldnt cover this amount, as the new machine is 
an upgrade on her old one and upgrades arent covered by her policy. While this may be 
correct Ms W acted on the basis what British Gas told her, and had they made it clear to her 
that theyd only replace her washing machine on a like for like basis, and the amount had to 
be agreed, Im persuaded she wouldnt have spent the amount she did, and its not fair for 
her to be left out of pocket.
Had Ms W not told us shed was prepared to accept the cost of her new washing machine in 
settlement of her complaint, Id be looking at awarding her the cost of a replacement 
washing machine, the amount she spent on alternative washing arrangements and 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced. Which is likely to have 
been equivalent to the cost of her new washing machine.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint about 
British Gas Limited and to put things right I require them to pay her £594, the amount she 
paid for her new washing machine.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman