DRN-3987435
The complaint
Mrs H complains about correspondence she received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
about a life assurance policy held in trust. 
What happened
I can see a lots been written about this complaint. I thank everyone for their time and effort. I 
dont intend to repeat all of those details here though, as it appears everyone is familiar with 
the facts of the case. 
The correspondence being complained about here began in May 2021. Mrs H complained in 
the September of that year, and came to us in the November. I confirm Ive read through that 
correspondence when making my decision.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the responses she received from Aviva, for various reasons. Aviva 
responded to her complaint before and after the matter was brought to us. They explained 
their correspondence, and accepted there had been some delays and some errors in their 
information. 
One of our investigators has considered the complaint and shared their view with both sides. 
In summary, they wrote the following:
- It was reasonable for Aviva to say the life assurance policy  a joint-life-second-death 
policy  had a value of nil following the death of the first life assured. 
- Aviva should though have given the surrender value for the policy when asked for a 
value for inheritance tax purposes.
- This value and the policy details have now been provided, putting right the earlier 
omissions. 
- The matter had caused Mrs H distress and inconvenience, but the total 
compensation offered by Aviva  now £850  was suitable to recognise this impact. 
- There wasnt a reasonable basis to say Aviva should cancel the policy in light of the 
complaint that had been upheld. 
A representative for Mrs H said they disagreed with our investigators findings. I confirm Ive 
read through their various responses when making my own decision for this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for much the same 
reasons. Ill briefly explain why, with reference to some of the points Mrs H and her 
representative have raised where I have a significantly different view. 
Looking at Avivas 11 May 2021 letter, this correctly said nothing was payable from the 
policy following the death of the first life assured. Thats because the policy was set up to 
pay out on the second death of the two lives assured. The second life assured  Mrs H  
was still alive at this point. So nothing was payable from the policy simply because the first 
life assured had died. 
I can see Mrs Hs representative has talked about how the valuation needed was something 
different. Ive looked at the parts of HMRCs inheritance tax manual that theyve referenced, 
but I feel theyve perhaps missed some of its full meaning. 
The section defining claim value  IHMT20084  says its the amount payable by the 
insurance company when a claim is made on the policy. Here there could be no claim, 
because of the second-death nature of the joint-life policy. 
Our investigator talked about surrender value, but that doesnt seem to apply. The trustees 
could have received this if they surrendered the policy. But there was no instruction doing 
this prior to the first life assured dying. And then looking at the trust deed, even if the 
trustees received the surrender value, they themselves werent beneficiaries of the trust. So 
anything received wouldnt find its way to the deceaseds estate. 
The section of the handbook about joint life policies  IHMT20300  does say about using an 
open market value, but expressly for cases [w]here the deceased was the sole policyholder 
of a life policy which had joint lives assured. That wasnt the case here  the policy was 
held by trustees, so the deceased wasnt a sole policyholder. 
What seems to have been more important  looking at form IHT404 that the deceaseds 
estate has completed  was the deceaseds share of any jointly owned assets. But their 
position as joint policyholder or trustee ended when they died. There was no payment from 
the policy at that point for them to have a share of. And  in any case  they had no 
beneficial interest in the trust set up for the policy. So zero value seems the right answer. 
With that said, I appreciate Mrs H made it clear to Aviva that she wanted more information 
about the policys set-up and value. Aviva could have done more here to show they 
understood that concern and provide more information. They should certainly have provided 
the policy details and trust documents that  a year on  theyve been able to send to us. 
Also, I can see how sending a form for Mrs H to fill in as a remaining trustee for the policy 
added to her frustrations. While I can accept that Aviva were processing some paperwork 
following the death of Mrs Hs co-trustee, this came at a time when Mrs H could still be 
expected to be grieving, and when she was concerned about not having the information she 
thought was needed to process the estate paperwork. 
Aviva would have been better to make sure Mrs Hs enquiries had been satisfactorily dealt 
with first, before adding any need for trust related paperwork into the situation. 
Putting things right
The omission of the information here doesnt appear to have had an impact on the value of 
the policy. Its continued to run as it would have if the service had been better.
But I can see Mrs H is reported to have been upset and distressed by the omissions she saw 
in the responses she received. I agree with our investigator that some payment of 
compensation is suitable to recognise that impact. 
Thats not trying to undo the impact. Nothing can do that. Its happened, and cant be taken back. This remedy is simply to acknowledge it happened, and show that Aviva have taken 
some measure of responsibility for their part in causing it. 
Picking an exact amount for that sort of compensation is always going to be a matter of 
opinion. But I consider the £850 thats been offered to date does do enough here. It reflects 
the fact Aviva havent at any point put the policy itself in undue peril. And that the 
correspondence generally has a professional tone to it  it doesnt appear to have been 
deliberately trying to upset Mrs H. 
I appreciate though that Mrs H has lost confidence in Aviva as a result of this complaint. That 
will be a matter for her and any other trustees for this policy to consider going forward. But I 
dont consider Avivas actions here were severe enough that I can agree with Mrs H that 
they should now cancel the policy. The policy is still set up as it would have been if the 
service had been reasonable. And speculation about Avivas future ability to administer it 
goes beyond the scope of my decision.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. To 
acknowledge the trouble and upset this created for Mrs H, they should pay her a total of 
£850 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman