DRN-4005810
The complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) irresponsibly lent to him when 
providing him with an overdraft facility and a loan.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional decision 
on 30 January 2023 (below). In my provisional decision I explained why I was intending to 
uphold Mr Es complaint.
Due to medical reasons, Mr E has not worked for several years, he held a 
Nationwide Flex account which the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) paid 
his benefit payments into. In December 2015 Mr E had an overdraft facility of £4,050 
which he wasnt using at the time.
The regular payments into the account were £82.30 per week Personal 
Independence Payment (PIP) and an Employment and Support Allowance (ESA) 
payment of £125.05 per week.
During the early part of 2016 Mr E began to use his overdraft facility and by May 
2016 the limit on this had been increased to £5000, of which he had used £4950.
In June 2016, Mr E applied for a loan of £20,000 in the Nationwide branch he uses, 
this was declined as there was an end date to one of his benefit payments, meaning 
he would not meet the affordability criteria for the term of the loan. He later reapplied 
for the loan through the direct channel, and it was granted over a period of 84 
months, with a monthly payment of £324.77. He was sent back to the branch to sign 
the loan documentation. The funds were deposited into his account on 11 June 2016. 
The majority of these funds were withdrawn from his account on 13 June 2016 by 
transfer.
Mr E quickly had problems making the monthly payments on the loan and by 
September 2016 his direct debits were being returned for insufficient funds. The loan 
eventually defaulted in August 2017.
Following various communications between Mr E and Nationwide it became clear Mr 
E could not afford the payments towards the debts. So, Nationwide offered to place a 
voluntary charge over his property for the balances of: Flex account -£5,018.83 and 
Loan account -£19,967.70. Mr E didnt want to do this and made a complaint to 
Nationwide saying they had lent to him irresponsibly, when it was clear he couldnt 
afford it and so wanted the debts written off. He also cited his mental health issues 
when requesting this. Nationwide responded saying they believed they had followed 
process when lending to him and it was not their policy to write off debts where the 
borrower had an unencumbered property. Mr E didnt think this was a fair response 
and so brought his complaint here.
Our investigator initially didnt comment on the Flex account but asked Nationwide to 
remove any interest and fees that had been added to the loan account. He also 
asked them to remove any adverse data from Mr Es credit file. Nationwide agreed to 
this, but Mr E did not. Our investigator asked Nationwide for information regarding 
the overdraft on the Flex account, but they didnt respond. And so, in his second 
opinion the investigator asked for the same remedy for this account as the loan 
account, for all interest and charges to be refunded and for any adverse data to be 
removed from Mr Es credit file.
Neither party responded to the investigator following his second view and so the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently intending to uphold Mr Es complaint, Ill explain why 
and in doing so I will deal with the accounts separately.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending  including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice  on 
our website, which I will be following when considering each account.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
questions I need to consider in deciding what's fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Es loan and Flex accounts are:
Did Nationwide complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves that Mr E would be able to make repayments to the accounts in a 
sustainable way?
oIf so, did they make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr E would have been 
able to do so?
Loan account
The rules and regulations in place required Nationwide to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr E's ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
It had to be borrower focused - so Nationwide had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Nationwide had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldn't cause Mr E undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation 
to make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his 
financial situation.
In other words, it wasn't enough for Nationwide to simply think about the likelihood of 
them getting their money back  they had to consider the impact of the loan 
repayments on Mr E. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances 
of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any 
indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/cost of credit they 
are seeking. Even for the same customer a proportionate check could look different 
for different applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumer's income (reflecting it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level income); 
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
The longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments 
for an extended period); and
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate 
check should be for a given lending application - including (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances.
Were Nationwide's checks reasonable and proportionate?
I found Nationwide's response to Mr E's complaint and what they provided us to 
support their position to be disappointing. Nationwide provided little information about 
the checks it carried out before agreeing Mr E's loan. It seems to me from the lack of 
information provided and the fact the application wasnt done in person, that 
Nationwide relied on Mr E considering how much he wanted to borrow and what he 
could afford to repay. This appears to be a failure on Nationwide's part to recognise 
their regulatory obligation to assess whether the payments were affordable.
This is supported by a system note that it provided from one of the branches, which 
says: only a few days before the loan being granted, Mr E had applied for the loan in 
one of the branches, but this had been declined as Mr E didnt meet the affordability 
requirement. The note goes on to say that Mr E's income is made up of two types of 
benefit payment, one of which has an end date and would reduce his income to 
around £540 per month during the term of the loan. With the monthly repayments 
due to be £324.77, this would clearly be unaffordable.
I appreciate the note may not have been on the system at the time of his second 
application, but the first application would have been on the system and could have 
been reviewed. I have seen nothing to show that Nationwide investigated the 
affordability issue further before granting the loan. So, I dont think I can fairly say 
Nationwide have shown they carried out proportionate checks prior to providing Mr E 
with the loan. So, to understand for myself what Nationwide would more likely than 
not have discovered if they had completed reasonable and proportionate checks, I examined Mr Es Nationwide Flex account bank statements and the contact notes 
and other internal system notes from Nationwide.
I cant be sure what Nationwide's checks showed at the time of the loan application 
but in the absence of anything else and as Nationwide had this information available, 
I believe it to be perfectly reasonable for me to rely on this to ascertain Mr E's 
financial position at the time of application.
The first statement I have is from 3 January 2016, at this time Mr E was not using his 
overdraft facility but did have an arranged overdraft limit of £4,050. I can see Mr E 
began using his overdraft facility In April 2016. I havent been provided with a full 
statement for April just a snapshot of the account balance, so I cant see what the 
agreed overdraft limit was at that time, but by 30 May 2016 I can see that the limit 
had been increased to £5,000 and Mr E had utilised £4,950 of it.
Mr E seems to have no bills being paid from this account and the only income into it 
is from his benefit payments or transfers from another account  all of which seem to 
be withdrawn straight away either by cash or transfer out. Its clear this isnt Mr Es 
main account for his day-to-day transactions such as paying bills or buying his living 
essentials. So, I cant see that Nationwide knew or had seen a true reflection of his 
outgoings, as I would have expected them to have, in order to be able to assess his 
affordability for the loan.
There is a system note relating to Mr E previously being a victim of a scam in 2012. 
And in April when he began to use his overdraft facility it seems he was sending 
large sums of monies aboard. I think Nationwide should have been alive to the 
possibility that Mr E was getting himself into financial trouble here and could 
potentially not need the loan for home improvements as he had said he did.
Having considered all of the above, I'm satisfied that had reasonable and 
proportionate checks been carried out before the loan was approved, I think it would 
have been reasonably foreseeable that Mr E wouldn't be able to make his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. Additionally, Im satisfied Nationwide had 
sufficient information available to them to have been able to see that further checks 
were needed before agreeing to the loan.
Overdraft
Much the same as the loan account Nationwide needed to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr E's ability to afford the overdraft facility and the 
costs associated to it. The checks also had to be borrower focused - so Nationwide 
had to think about whether the increase in interest payments associated with using 
the overdraft was sustainable for Mr E.
As Ive mentioned above, I can see from the statements provided Mr E initially had 
an agreed overdraft facility of £4,050, which he was not utilising. I can see this facility 
was still in place in March 2016 and can also see that he began to use the overdraft 
in April of the same year. It's not clear from the information provided by Nationwide, 
when or why they increased the limit to £5,000 but I can see this had been put in 
place by the May 2016 statement.
All of the information Ive considered above in regard to the loan account was 
available to Nationwide at the time it increased Mr E's overdraft limit.
Having thought about our approach, outlined above, I can't fairly say that Nationwide completed reasonable and proportionate checks, nor do I think they made a fair 
lending decision here. I say that because Mr E started to use his overdraft very 
quickly, without any build up, transferring large sums out of the account. While this on 
its own isn't an indicator that he couldn't afford to pay the overdraft back and maintain 
the account, the transfers of the money out of his account should have raised 
questions for Nationwide given Mr E's history of being a victim of scams and frauds 
on more than one occasion.
Had Nationwide completed reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr E before 
increasing the overdraft facility, I think it would have been reasonably foreseeable 
that Mr E would not be able to afford the interest or charges associated with the 
overdraft, nor would be reasonably be able to afford to pay back the money used.
If when considering an overdraft increase a business discovers the facility in place is 
no longer affordable, it has the option to withdraw or reduce this facility. I think in Mr 
E's case Nationwide should have done this. And as Mr E hadn't been using his 
overdraft facility prior to this there would have been no detriment to him in doing so at 
that time.
Putting things right.
Ive thought about how Nationwide should put this right. Where I find that a business 
has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is 
reasonably practical  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Nationwide 
putting Mr E in the position hed now be in if he hadnt been provided with the loan 
and the overdraft limit increase.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isn't straightforward. 
Mr E was given the loan in question, and he used the funds. So, I can't undo what's 
already been done. And it's simply not possible to put Mr E back in the position he 
would have been in if he hadn't been given the loan in the first place because Mr E 
doesn't have the £20,000 available to return to Nationwide for the agreement to be 
immediately unwound. Nor does he have another £5,000 to repay the overdraft 
facility on his Flex account.
As we explain on our website where we find, or a lender agrees, credit was provided 
irresponsibly, we would typically say it's fair and reasonable to expect the borrower to 
repay the funds they were lent but not any associated interest, fees or charges. But 
having given careful thought to the matter before me and the circumstances of this 
particular case, I don't think that such an award goes far enough here. And I think 
that's the case for two reasons. 
Firstly, for all the reasons I have already explained in some detail above, Nationwide 
ought to have been aware there was a significant risk that Mr E was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay what he was being lent, let alone the associated interest. 
There's nothing to indicate his financial situation was going to get any better, 
moreover the evidence suggests it was likely to get worse. And Mr E's most recent 
spending habits should have been a red flag for Nationwide. However, Nationwide 
chose to lend in these circumstances despite the reasonably foreseeable prospect of 
the funds being transferred from the account and being no longer available to repay 
any debt as a result.
It's also my understanding that Mr E's financial situation will be unlikely to change in 
the foreseeable future, his doctor has provided evidence to show that he has a long-term mental health condition making it difficult for him to remember and understand 
things. And he is on medication to help with this. Mr E hasn't been able to work for 
over 10 years and there is no indication this is going to change.
Mr E has explained to us the distress that has been caused to him over the last six 
years, being pursued by Nationwide for the two debts and worrying about how he can 
pay them while paying his essential bills and being able to live. I don't doubt that this 
has been an incredibly difficult time for him, dealing with this and his own mental 
health issues. He has told us that at times this has led him to feeling suicidal as he 
cant see a way out from the debt and feels he will be in debt for the rest of his life as 
he cant afford any monthly payment to bring the debt down.
Bearing in mind Mr E's current financial position, the amount of distress and 
inconvenience caused by Nationwide unfairly providing the loan and overdraft to Mr 
E in the circumstances they did, I don't think removing the interest fees and charges 
goes far enough. The circumstances of this case and in particular the financial 
hardship which is likely to be caused by requiring Mr E to pay funds he doesn't have 
and is unlikely to get, lead me to think that the fair and reasonable thing for 
Nationwide to do here, given all the circumstances, is write off the outstanding 
balance on both the loan account and the Flex account.
I've carefully considered this and had it not been for my direction to write off the 
outstanding balance, I would have told Nationwide to pay a not insubstantial amount 
of compensation for the distress and inconvenience their actions caused. However, 
as this will result in Mr E having repaid substantially less than the amount he was 
lent, I'm satisfied that this also encompasses fair compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience Nationwide's actions in relation to providing the loan and the overdraft 
caused to him. And so, I'm not making an additional award for distress and 
inconvenience.
I turn now to Mr E's credit file. He has told us the adverse information on his credit 
file is affecting him and his ability to have flexibility by obtaining credit. We would 
typically expect a lender to remove any adverse information from the borrowers credit 
file where a complaint is upheld for irresponsible lending. However, I don't think that 
doing this would be the fair and reasonable thing to do here given what I'm asking 
Nationwide to do in terms of the balances.
To explain, the basis for Mr E's complaint was and is that he is a vulnerable person 
who should never have been allowed to borrow from Nationwide. And Nationwide's 
decision to lend to him in 2016 has made things significantly worse for him both 
financially and mentally. I've accepted this is the case and this has played a large 
part in my intended decision to uphold Mr E's complaint.
In the circumstances, it seems to me removing adverse information from Mr E's 
credit file, increasing the chances of him being able to borrow further would be 
counter-productive and arguably not in his best interests, or those of any potential 
lender. So, I think it's fair and reasonable for Nationwide to reflect what I'm asking 
them to do in relation to the outstanding balance on both the loan account and Flex 
account and record them as written off on Mr E's credit file.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I currently uphold this complaint and I require 
Nationwide Building Society to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting 
things right section of this decisionI invited both parties to let me have anything in response they thought was relevant.
Nationwide replied accepting my findings. They agreed to write off the overdraft facility they 
provided to Mr E. They also informed us they defaulted the loan in 2016 and already 
considered it written off. So as a result of my findings they would no longer be pursuing Mr E 
for the outstanding debt on either account. 
Mr E also responded, in summary he said:
He doesnt think the findings put him back in the position he was in before taking the 
loan and the overdraft. And its not fair to him for his credit file not to be rectified, as 
this is preventing him from getting a new current account with other banks.
He feels he should be compensated as Nationwide treated him like a number at a 
very low time in his life and never apologised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Es points and having done so I have to tell him they dont 
change things for me. Ill explain why.
Mr E has told us that he is struggling to open a current account with an alternative bank 
because of the effect the loan and the overdraft have had on is credit score. As mentioned 
above Nationwide have explained they defaulted the loan in 2016 and consider it written off. 
The records they provided to us show this to have happened in August 2017 but 
nevertheless as both dates are more than six years ago this will no longer be showing on Mr 
Es credit file. 
But the Flex account with overdraft facility will be and although Mr E doesnt agree I think 
this is fair, as Nationwide has a duty to report factually accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies for the protection of both Mr E and other potential lenders. 
Ive taken on board that Mr E has told us he is struggling to obtain a current account at this 
time, but that doesnt mean he cant have an account at all. I say this because high street 
banks will provide customers with a basic account regardless of their credit history or credit 
score. And while this may not be the type of account Mr E wants, he will be able to use it for 
his everyday banking needs. However, I am also aware, because Mr E has told us, other 
providers have closed down accounts he has had with them. I have no way of knowing the 
reasons for the closures or if those banks are willing to work with Mr E again, but that is a 
separate issue for Mr E to deal with, and I cant hold Nationwide responsible for any 
difficulties he has with this.
As I explained in my provisional findings, our normal approach when we find a lender has 
lent irresponsibly is to ask them to remove all interest and charges from the account. But we 
dont ask them to write off the original debt as we think its normally fair for the borrower, in 
this case Mr E, to pay the original lending back. But because of Mr Es circumstances I went 
much further asking Nationwide to write off the entire debt meaning Mr E doesnt have to 
repay any of the original amounts he borrowed. Its unclear what Mr E spent the money he 
borrowed on, but he did have the benefit of it and so in not having to pay it back he has been 
compensated to the value of the original lending. So, I dont think more compensation is due 
here as the amount of the original lending is much higher than any award I would have made 
for the distress and inconvenience the lending caused him.I understand this may be disappointing to Mr E, as I know how strongly he feels about his 
credit score and not being compensated, but hopefully my explanation for why my decision 
remains the same is helpful to him.
Putting things right
As Nationwide has confirmed it wrote off the loan account and defaulted it in 2016, no further 
action needs to be taken in respect of this account. But Nationwide should now write off the 
outstanding balance of the overdraft on Mr Es flex account and reflect this action on Mr Es 
credit file accordingly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require Nationwide Building 
Society to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting things right section of this 
decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman