DRN-2313309
The complaint
Mr S has complained PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave him an unaffordable 
loan. 
What happened
Mr S was given one loan of £300 on 3 October 2011. This was due to be repaid via one 
instalment of £390 on 31 October 2011. Mr S had some problems repaying the loan, and it 
wasnt fully repaid until September 2014. 
Mr S was initially told that his complaint wouldnt be upheld and following his comments 
(below) the adjudicator reconsidered the complaint. Having looked at the evidence a second 
time, he thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld because a proportionate check wouldve 
likely showed that Mr S had a number of outstanding short-term loans. 
A second adjudicator reviewed the case for a third time, and she explained to Mr S why she 
agreed, with the first outcome  that Mr Lender hadnt made a mistake when granting the 
loan. 
It appears that Mr Lender agreed with our adjudicators final opinion. Mr S disagreed and 
provided the following comments;
Mr Lender didnt carry out the correct checks, because it if had done, it wouldve 
realised that he was reliant on other forms of short-term loans and
Mr S was struggling financially at the time. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Im sorry to hear about the delays and concerns Mr S has had with the outcome of the 
complaint. But I want to be clear that the second adjudicators findings were that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld, and it is on this basis that I have consider the case. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr S could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr 
Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all meant for Mr Ss complaint. And I dont think Mr Lender were wrong 
to approve Mr Ss loan. Id like to explain why.
When Mr S applied for this loan, Mr Lender asked him to declare his monthly income and he 
declared this to be £1,200 per month. Given, the repayment amount that Mr S was 
committed to repaying, this wouldve appeared to affordable to Mr Lender.  And, I think the 
checks Mr Lender carried out for this loan were proportionate.
Mr S has told us he feels Mr Lender did not check his credit file, because if it had done, Mr S 
says he wouldnt have been provided with the loan. Mr Lender has provided us a summary 
of the information that it gathered.  
These credit check results showed Mr S wasnt bankrupt or subject to any insolvency 
proceedings, such as an IVA. And it was also aware that Mr S had taken some unsecured 
loans, but it didnt know how much was lent, or who had provided the lending. Overall, there 
is nothing on these results that I think ought to have raised any concerns to Mr Lender when 
considering this loan application.
Equally, there was no requirement on Mr Lender to carry out a credit check at all, let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what it couldnt do was carry out a credit check and not act on 
the information that it discovered. Looking at what Mr Lender knew, the credit check results 
arent in my view enough to have either declined the application or to have prompted Mr 
Lender to carry out further, more in-depth, checks.
I also havent seen any other information that shows its likely Mr Lender was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr G mightve been having. Or anything else that wouldve prompted 
it to investigate his circumstances further. 
It is, of course, possible that, had Mr Lender carried out further checks for this loan, it may 
have concluded that Mr S wasnt in a position to take on this loan. But considering the 
amount Mr S was committed to repaying and that this was his first loan, I dont think there 
were any grounds for Mr Lender to verify the information Mr S had provided. So, I think it 
was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely on the information it obtained when the loan was 
granted. 
Finally, Mr Lender has told us that on the day the loan was due to be repaid, it heard from a 
third party who was setting up a Debt Management Plan (DMP) for Mr S. I can see that at 
this point Mr Lender froze the interest and charges and agreed with the repayments that were put in place. It seems that Mr Lender treated Mr S fairly and therefore it doesnt need to 
take any further action in relation to this complaint. 
Overall, I think the checks Mr Lender carried out were proportionate and it could see that 
Mr S was likely to be able to afford the lending. This was Mr Ss first loan with Mr Lender, so 
it was very early on in the lending relationship. And there was nothing in the information it 
gathered that suggested he wouldnt be able to meet the contractual repayments for the 
loans. I dont think Mr Lender made an error in providing this loan. 
I understand that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr S, but I hope my explanation will 
help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman