DRN-4209378
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost as part of an investment 
scam.
What happened
Mr K completed an enquiry form on what he thought was a legitimate website about 
purchasing shares in Uber. He was subsequently contacted by a representative of a 
business Ill refer to as E, which was supposedly the trading name for a company 
registered on Companies House and an appointed representative for a firm regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr K proceeded to make three bank transfers totalling £30,081.48 between 
9 and 13 May 2019, believing he was purchasing shares. He made the first transfer 
over the phone and the subsequent transfers online.
When Mr K realised hed been scammed, he raised the payments with Santander. It 
declined to refund him, so he brought his concerns to our service to investigate.
On 11 May 2023, I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. I 
considered that Santander failed to provide Mr K with an adequate warning when it 
intervened with the first payment. Had it have done, I thought it likely Mr K wouldnt 
have suffered the losses he did. So I considered that Santander ought to refund him.
Mr K accepted my provisional decision. Santander submitted further comments. In 
summary: 
oIt believed I based my decision on Santander not signposting Mr K to 
something that hadnt yet happened. It said that before the first payment, 
Mr K told it he had checked the FCA register, which showed it was registered. 
And that its advisor couldnt have known he was using a cloned company, as 
the FCAs warning wasnt placed on the website until five months later. 
oWith the later payments, there wasnt a further interaction as hed already 
transacted with E. Regardless, the FCAs website still showed the company 
was registered at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about Santanders response carefully, Ive not changed my mind about 
whats a fair outcome to this complaint. Ill reply to what I think are the key points: 
I accept the FCAs specific warning about E operating as a clone of a registered firm 
isnt relevant here. It appeared after the disputed transactions. However, even in the 
absence of this specific warning, Ive not been persuaded that Santander intervened 
appropriately. 
The prevalence of fraudsters operating under the guise of registered firms was a 
known risk at the time Mr K made these payments. The FCA had published a general 
warning about this in 2016, alongside steps to avoid cloned firms, such as contacting 
them using the details on the Financial Services Register and cross-referencing the 
details on the firms website and Companies House. 
In line with Santanders obligations to protect Mr K from financial harm, Id have 
expected its warning to cover the risks of cloned firms and how to avoid them. But 
from the evidence Ive seen of the script it wouldve read out, it didnt. Instead, it only 
recommended checking the details on the FCAs website, a step thats unlikely to 
have alerted Mr K to a risk here.  
It follows that I disagree with Santander that my decision was based on something 
that hadnt happened and information it couldnt have known. Instead, its based on 
Santander not adequately warning Mr K about a common fraud risk in line with the 
FCAs general advice published a long time before these payments were made. 
It follows that Ive not changed my mind that Santander needs to put things right here. For 
completeness, Ive included my provisional findings again below: 
Although its accepted Mr K was the victim of a scam, its not disputed he made these 
payments. So the starting position, in line with the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, is that hes liable for them.
But Ive also considered whether Santander couldve reasonably prevented his 
losses, given its obligations to look out for unusual or otherwise suspicious payments 
that might suggest hes at risk of fraud.
Santanders evidence suggests that, given the nature of the first payment, Mr K 
wouldve received a warning when he made it over the telephone. So the key 
consideration isnt whether Santander ought to have identified the payments as 
unusual  it did that with the first one. Instead, its whether its intervention was 
adequate in the circumstances.
It doesnt have the call recording given the time thats passed, but its shown me a 
script of the warning given. Overall, Im not persuaded this was enough in the 
circumstances. Its brief, its not interactive, and it doesnt highlight the losses Mr K 
could face. I accept it does recommend checking the company on the FCAs website, 
but it doesnt ask Mr K if hed done that, nor does it highlight why this is important 
and what to look out for. It also doesnt warn of the risk of cloned firms and the steps 
he could take to avoid them, in line with the FCAs online advice first published in 
2016.
These are the sorts of steps Id have expected given Santanders position of 
expertise and obligations. And had Santander intervened adequately, I think its likely 
Mr K wouldve taken heed of the warning and information. Its clear he was reassured by the supposed legitimacy of the company. So, had he used the details on the 
register to check their connection to the regulated firm (in line with the FCAs advice 
in these circumstances) and, had he seen they werent a properly listed appointed 
representative as they shouldve been, I think its likely this scam wouldve 
unravelled.
Taking this all into account, Im persuaded that Santanders failure to provide Mr K 
with an adequate warning led to his losses. So I think it should put things right, by 
refunding the fraudulent transactions alongside 8% simple interest per year to 
compensate him for the time he's been out of pocket.
I've considered whether Mr K ought to bear some responsibility for what happened. 
But he wasn't knowledgeable on investment scams, as I'd have expected Santander 
to be. And from an ordinary person's perspective, whod seemingly no prior 
investment experience, I can see how he was taken in by their explanations that E 
was connected to a regulated firm, as well the official looking brochures, paperwork, 
and online platform. Taking this all into account, I dont Mr K should share the blame 
here. So Ive not made a deduction for contributory negligence.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. Santander UK Plc must: 
Pay Mr K the total of the disputed payments, less any amount recovered or already 
refunded. I understand this to be £30,081.48.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, accruing from the dates of payment 
to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman