DRN-4114456
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the total loss settlement Amtrust Europe Limited paid to settle a 
claim he made against his caravan protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O bought a caravan insurance policy with the insurer Amtrust. Unfortunately his caravan 
was damaged by fire and declared a total loss. 
Amtrust said it would settle the claim by paying the sum insured listed under the policy of 
£18,000. 
Mr O said he paid £20,000 for the caravan from new in November 2017. 
At the time of his claim, the market value for the caravan was more than the £18,000 sum 
insured amount Amtrust said it would pay. 
Amtrust agreed the market value was higher than the sum insured, but it didnt uphold Mr 
Os complaint. It said it was for Mr O to declare the correct sum insured when he bought the 
policy. As it had settled the claim for this amount, Amtrust said it had done nothing wrong. 
The Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. Shed asked Amtrust to 
provide evidence of the question Mr O was asked when he applied for the policy, but 
Amtrust hasnt provided this. And she asked Amtrust to show if it would have charged Mr O 
a higher premium to indemnify him for the market value of the caravan rather than the sum 
insured amount. Amtrust said it would have, but didnt provide evidence to support this. 
Amtrust said the policy was sold through a broker and so it doesnt know why the sum 
insured was set at £18,000. Mr O told the Investigator he would have given a sum insured of 
£18,000 as an estimate of what the caravan might be worth, taking into account 
depreciation. 
On 23 March 2023 Amtrust said it had asked the broker to provide it with details of the sale 
of the policy and would sent it to this service the following day, but we havent received 
details of the sale of the policy. 
On 29 March 2023 the Investigator recommended Amtrust increase the settlement to the 
market value of the caravan, at £20,300 based on the trade guides in line with our approach.
Amtrust didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust told us the policy was sold through a broker. Even so, it isnt unreasonable to expect 
an insurer to provide evidence of the application of the policy it underwrote. Amtrust hasnt 
provided this service with any evidence of the application.  
So Ive looked at the policy documents provided by Amtrust which were sent to Mr O when 
he bought the policy in August 2022. 
There are different ways to settle Mr Os claim under Amtrusts policy depending on the age, 
if purchased from new, and manufacturer year for the caravan. In Mr Os circumstances, the 
market value term applies. Amtrusts policy says the following for this term:
c. Market value
If neither a) or b) above apply, We may pay the current market value of the Caravan 
at the time of the loss or damage (as shown in the current edition of Glasss Guide to 
Caravan Values), taking into account the age of the Caravan and any deduction to 
reflect pre-accident condition.
For me to be satisfied that Amtrust has treated Mr O fairly and in line with the policy, it 
needed to provide proof that Mr O was asked a clear question about the value of his caravan 
when he applied for the policy. And it needed to provide evidence by way of its pricing to 
show that it would have charged Mr O more by paying Mr O the market value. Even though 
this information is commercially sensitive, this service finds it reasonable for an insurer to 
share this with us so we can check a customer has been treated fairly. By not providing this 
information, Amtrust hasnt shown that it has been prejudiced by paying the market value 
instead of the sum insured amount. 
So I think a fair outcome is for Amtrust to increase the total loss settlement to £20,300 in line 
with the trade guide valuation for Mr Os caravan. 
As Mr O has lost out on the difference in the settlement sum, in line with our approach, I 
think Amtrust should pay interest at our recommended rate on the difference as set out 
below. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Amtrust Europe Limited to do the following:
Increase the total loss settlement to £20,300.
Pay interest on the difference from the date of the claim to the date it pays Mr O at a 
rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
Amtrust Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman