DRN-3400188
The complaint
Mr R complains that UK Financial Consultants Ltd (UKFC) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his defined benefit pension scheme (DBS).
Mr Rs complaint is being brought on his behalf by a professional representation. However, 
for ease, Ill mainly refer to the complaint as being brought by him.
What happened
In 2017, Mr R met with an advisor from UKFC to discuss transferring his DBS pension. Hed 
been provided by advice by another financial advisor regarding transferring his pension but 
wanted a second opinion. UKFC didnt have the relevant regulatory permissions to conduct 
pension transfer business, so it referred Mr R to another firm which Ill refer to as B.
B completed the pension transfer on behalf of Mr R, and UKFC took over as the servicing 
agent for Mr Rs new pension. 
In 2020, Mr R complained to both UKFC and B, saying the pension advice he received was 
unsuitable for him. 
UKFC said it hadnt advised Mr R on the pension transfer and had instead referred him to B. 
Mr R brought his complaint to our service. He said UKFC and B were working collaboratively 
and were both responsible for the unsuitable advice.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint about UKFC. She said that UKFC hadnt 
provided advice to Mr R in respect of transferring his pension, and it didnt have the relevant 
permissions to do so.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint  he didnt make any 
further comments. So, its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr R was referred to B by UKFC. However, as our investigator noted, UKFC didnt 
have the relevant regulatory permissions to conduct pension transfer advice. UKFC says it 
completed a fact-find and an attitude to risk assessment with Mr R but then introduced him 
to Burley because he had a DBS. Whilst there may have been general discussions between 
Mr R and UKFC regarding the possibility of transferring his pension, I havent seen evidence 
to persuade me that this contact went beyond UKFCs role of introducer here.
Ive seen a copy of a fact find, pension transfer report and suitability letter regarding the 
pension transfer, and these have all been produced by B. B recommended the transfer and 
the investment strategy for the transferred funds. Based on this, Im satisfied that it was B 
who provided the advice to transfer the pension. We have a separate complaint set up 
against B regarding this advice. So, I wont be addressing that complaint here any further. 
I can see that during the time of the transfer, and afterwards, Mr R was in regular contact 
with both UKFC and B. So, I can see why he may have thought that UKFC was involved in 
the advice being given. However, based on the information I have, Im satisfied that the 
advice to transfer the pension was provided by B, not UKFC. And it was Bs advice that 
ultimately led to Mr R transferring out of the BSPS. So, I dont think UKFC is responsible for 
the suitability of the pension transfer advice. 
I understand that UKFC did take over the servicing of the pension shortly after the transfer. 
But this doesnt mean it becomes responsible for the advice provided. And I cant see that 
Mr R has a complaint about the servicing of the pension after the transfer was completed. 
Overall, Im satisfied that all UKFC did with regards to Mr Rs pension transfer was introduce 
him to B. And its not responsible for the advice B gave.
My final decision
UK Financial Consultants Ltd didnt provide advice to Mr R in respect of his pension transfer, 
so I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman