DRN-2898016
The complaint
Ms A complains that Morses Club PLC was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Morses Club provided Ms A with four loans between June 2017 and May 2020. Ms A says 
that Morses Club didnt carry out adequate checks before providing the loans and had it 
done so the loans wouldnt have been provided. She also complains that Morses Club didnt 
give her information about the free debt advice services available.
Morses Club explained its approach to lending and that affordability assessments were 
undertaken before each loan with its agent visiting Ms As home and going through her 
income and expenses.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough to say that loans 1 and 2 shouldnt have been 
provided. But he thought that by loan 3 Morses Club should have been concerned that Ms A 
had become reliant on this form of lending. He noted that by loan 3, Ms A had taken out 
three loans in 17 months and the amounts she was borrowing werent significantly reducing. 
He thought this showed a pattern of lending that was becoming unsustainable and therefore 
recommended that Morses Club refund Ms A the interest and charges applied to loans 3 and 
4.
Morses Club didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that the loan amounts had 
remained about the same  three being for £200 and one for £300. It said Ms A was never 
repaying more than one loan at a time and her payments were never more than £15 a week. 
It said that Ms As income was verified for loan 4 and that Ms As repayments were never 
more than 10% of her disposable income. It said Ms A didnt tell it about any financial 
difficulties and that she was never in arrears by more than two weeks. Morses Club didnt 
think that three loans in 17 months was excessive.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ms A was provided with the first loan by Morses Club in June 2017. This was for 
£200 and a finance charge of £130 was added. Repayments were set at £10 a week. 
I thought the checks carried out before this loan was provided were reasonable and 
as the information gathered suggested the loan was affordable, I didnt think it was 
unreasonable this loan was provided.
Ms A repaid her first loan in January 2018 and took out a second loan in March 2018. 
This was also for £200 with a £130 finance charge and weekly repayments of £10. 
Again I thought the checks carried out were reasonable and as these didnt raise 
concerns about the affordability of the loan I didnt think I could say this loan 
shouldnt have been provided.
At the time loan 3 was provided, Ms A had repaid the two previous loans. The first 
loan was repaid over a period of around seven and a half months and the second 
was repaid in just under eight months. Therefore, Ms A had been borrowing from 
Morses Club for around 15 months out of the previous 17. This was only Ms As third 
loan and I thought it was too early to say that Morses Club should have considered 
Ms A as being reliant on this form of finance. The information gathered before loan 3 
suggested the loan was affordable and so I didnt uphold this complaint in regard to 
this loan.
By loan 4, Ms A had been borrowing from Morses Club for over two years. By this 
time, I thought that Morses Club should have been concerned that Ms A had become 
reliant on this form of borrowing. Because of this I upheld this complaint regarding 
loan 4.
Morses Club accepted my provisional decision. No further information was provided by 
Ms A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms A could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses Club should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses Club was required to establish 
whether Ms A could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Taking the above into account, and as I set out in my provisional decision, I do not find I 
have enough to say that Morses Club did anything wrong by providing the first three loans. 
However, by loan 4 I think there should have been concern that Ms A had become 
persistently reliant on this type of finance. As Morses Club accepted my provisional decision 
and no further information was provided by of on behalf o Ms A, my conclusions havent 
changed. Therefore I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 4.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 4.
In deciding what redress Morses Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided Ms A with loan 4.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms A may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms A would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses Clubs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses Club PLC should:
refund Ms A all interest and charges she paid on loan 4 along with 8% simple interest 
calculated from the date of payment to the date this complaint is settled*; and
remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Ms As credit file in 
relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to take off tax from this interest. Morses 
Club must give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 4. Morses Club PLC should 
take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman