DRN-3215653
The complaint
Miss A complains that it isnt fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use her 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt because she considers 
it was written-off when her protected trust deed ended.
What happened
During 2003 Miss A took out three loans with RBS and all three had PPI. More recently Miss 
A complained that she was mis-sold PPI and in 2019 RBS upheld her complaint and it 
offered her compensation.
But Miss A granted a trust deed for her creditors, which from the available evidence appears 
to have become a protected trust deed in July 2006.
A protected trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and their creditors, which is
administered by a trustee. The consumer transfers their property to the trustee, who has the
power to collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate among creditors according to
their respective rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy
is, as an asset, usually vested in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the
creditors. A trust deed will invariably include provisions relating to the discharge of the
consumer from their debts, the restoration to them of any surplus and the discharge of the
trustee.
Miss A was discharged from her protected trust deed in 2009. 
Because Miss As debt (the balances outstanding on the loan accounts) is greater than the 
amount of PPI compensation, RBS kept the compensation to reduce the amount of the debt.
The adjudicator who looked at this thought that in the circumstances it was fair for RBS to 
use the PPI compensation to reduce the outstanding debt  they didnt think RBS had done 
anything wrong. 
Miss A disagrees  she doesnt think it is fair and asks what the point of a trust deed is if 
RBS can come back several years later and claim the debt is still owed.
Because the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, relevant regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, relevant codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider 
to have been good industry practice as the relevant time.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
In a case very similar to this complaint, the Inner House of the Court of Session held that a
business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which they
were discharged when their trust deed came to an end. The case is called Donnelly v Royal
Bank of Scotland [2019] CSIH 56. And the Supreme Court refused permission to appeal.
However, when the business learned it had lost its appeal, it asked the Outer House of the
Court of Session  in Royal Bank of Scotland v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106  to set aside or
undo the consumers discharge. This would re-open the trust proceedings and allow it to
assert its right of set-off.
The court held that the trustees failure to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the
consumers creditors was clearly a mistake. As such, the court said it could and usually
would set aside the consumers discharge  unless there were exceptional circumstances
which would make it inconvenient and unjust. In that case, the court concluded that there
were exceptional circumstances and refused to reverse the consumers discharge. It took
into account a number of factors, including: the time that had passed since the consumers
discharge: the duration of, and misery caused by, the protracted litigation; the fact that the
outstanding sum was paltry from the businesss perspective (and in proportion to the legal
fees likely to have been incurred) but not an insignificant sum for the consumer; and, that
there would be adverse consequences for the consumer and no obvious means to alleviate
them.
Ive thought about what this means for Miss A. On the one-hand, on the assumption that the 
relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the same as those in this case, RBS couldnt 
argue it had the right of set-off in court unless the court first set aside Miss As discharge. I 
dont know what a court might do in Miss As case  but its possible it may decide not to do 
this.
On the other hand, my consideration of this case is a broader test of what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. And in this case, I think it is fair for RBS to 
use Miss As PPI compensation to reduce the loan balances that remained outstanding and 
unpaid when her trust deed ended. And my reasons for reaching this conclusion are set out 
below.
Firstly and quite simply, I think that when two people  or in this case a person and a 
business  owe each other money, it seems only fair that they each pay what they owe. So 
in this case, if RBS paid what it owed Miss A, shed have to pay it back to RBS because she 
owes RBS more. 
Secondly, while Im mindful that Miss As trust deed ended some years ago and she doesnt 
think it is now fair for RBS to use her PPI compensation to reduce a debt shes been 
discharged from, Im also conscious that Miss A has chosen to complain about her PPI 
policies sold in 2003. So shes chosen to revisit something that happened before she 
granted her trust deed. 
Miss A still owed RBS a not insignificant amount when her trust deed ended. And while the 
discharge relieved her of the liability  i.e. RBS couldnt pursue her for the debt - it didnt 
mean the underlying debt was extinguished. 
So I dont see how it would be fair to direct RBS to pay Miss A compensation when there is a 
debt owed  a balance she didnt pay - for a greater sum of money.Finally, it is also the case that if Miss As trustee had pursued PPI mis-selling claims before 
they discharged her from the trust deed (which could be deemed to have been a mistake) 
then RBS would have been able to assert its right of set-off and keep her compensation in 
any event.
So taking everything into account, I think it is fair for RBS to keep Miss As compensation to 
reduce the money owed and left unpaid when her trust deed came to an end.
I can see Miss A says that RBS didnt tell her that it would keep the compensation and she 
spent the money she thought she was getting. But notwithstanding what Ive said above, I 
can see that RBS offer letters and the subsequent compensation acceptance forms Miss A 
signed described what would happen if she was, or had been, subject to a protected trust 
deed. So I think RBS made its position clear  I think Miss A was reasonably informed of 
what would likely happen in her case. And while Miss A chose to spend the money she 
believed she would receive, which she says has put her in a difficult position, Im afraid this 
doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint  I think it is fair for The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Miss As PPI compensation to reduce the money owed 
and left unpaid when her trust deed ended.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman