DRN-3764674
The complaint
Ms H has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds refusal of her claim
under her business insurance policy.
Ms H is represented in this complaint but for ease, I will refer to Ms H throughout.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month, the main parts of which are 
copied below: 
In April 2020, Ms H made a claim under her policy after she was forced to close her pub as 
a result of the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
RSA initially refused the claim. However, it reviewed the claim following the Supreme Courts 
judgement on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test 
case in January 2021. RSA then confirmed it would meet the claim and said it would pay for 
the losses incurred during the period from 23 March 2020 to 11 July 2020, being the period 
of time that pubs were required to shut in the first lockdown. On 11 July 2020 the restrictions 
were lifted and pubs were able to reopen. It settled the claim in May 2021.
Ms H says that because of the delay on RSAs part in settling the claim, she did not reopen
and was forced to close the business permanently with effect from 23 July 2020. Ms H
lived at the premises with her family and so as a result, they lost their home and business.
She is also very unhappy that it would not pay the claim for the full 12 month indemnity
period that she says is covered under her policy. Ms H says the policy does not state that
RSA can limit the cover in this way.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be
upheld as he didnt think the policy terms required RSA to cover the claim for any longer
than the period already paid (23 March 2020 to 11 July 2020). He also didnt think that the
closure of the business was solely due to any delay on RSAs part. Ms H had said she
needed £3,000 per month to keep the business going. She confirmed shed received a
Government grant of £10,000 in April 2020 and a Government bounce back loan of £9,000
in May 2020. The investigator said these payments meant she had more than the £3,000 per
month shed said she needed for the period and so could have reopened when she was
allowed to, regardless of the delay by RSA in settling the claim.
Ms H does not accept the Investigators assessment. She has made a number of points in
support of her claim. Ive considered them all and will summarise the main ones below:
She was struggling financially and RSA failed to take her personal circumstances into
consideration.
The Investigator and this service is biased towards RSA and have not given sufficient
understanding of the situation she faced in 2020.
The FCA made clear that Insurers should not only consider a strict interpretation of
the policy terms, but whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances taking into
account in particular the unprecedented situation that the response to the virus has
created. How has this guidance been taken into account and applied in dealing with
this complaint?
The Investigator said that a current legal case would not affect the outcome of this
claim. How can we not take account of the law and any legal precedent?
The failure of RSA to pay the claim, when first presented in April 2020 was the single
major cause of the failure of the business. If she had that assurance, it would have
meant she could have kept the business going.
She did get some Government assistance but had to use around half of this to
secure alternative accommodation for her and her family, as she was forced to close
the business and would otherwise have been homeless.
The policy does not state that as soon as the business reopens, the business
interruption claim will cease. Pubs had to operate under restrictions after they were
allowed to reopen, which would have affected revenue.
What legal test cases would allow the indemnity to be limited to the date of
reopening?
RSA has the financial means to help policyholders like Ms H who were facing
extreme levels of hardship in an unprecedented situation. If it had paid this claim in
full, it would have made little difference to RSA but despite the FCA guidance, it was
not willing to help.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going
to address them all in this decision but will instead focus on what I see as the central issues
to this complaint.
My role is to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, having regard to the law, including recent
case law, industry rules and guidelines and good industry practice.
The recent communication from the FCA, to the insurance industry, that Ms H has referred
to, has not changed our remit. The requirement to consider what is fair and reasonable
however, does not mean only what is fair to the policyholder but what is fair and reasonable
to both parties. Therefore even though RSA might have greater financial resources, it does
not mean it should be required to meet a claim that is not covered under the policy.
This was an unprecedented time and did cause hardship to many. I can see that Ms H was
greatly affected and it has caused her ongoing financial difficulty.
Limit of Indemnity
The section of cover which was relied on to meet the claim is an extension of the business
interruption section of the policy. It says it covers:
Loss as a result of ... closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or
with the approval of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of
a notifiable human disease manifesting Itself at the Premises.
The policy also says that the limit of indemnity for business interruption claims
The period beginning when the Damage occurs and ending when the results of theBusiness cease to be affected by the Damage but not exceeding the Maximum
Indemnity Period (as shown in the Schedule).
While it refers to damage, I think it is reasonable to take this as applying to all business
interruption claims and it seems both parties agree with that. Ms H says that her claim
should have been paid for longer, as even if she had reopened the pub there would have
been restrictions in place which would have affected takings. However, when RSA settled
the claim, she had already closed the pub.
The policy only covers losses arising from closure or restrictions placed on the premises as
a result of a notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the premises. And any losses
arising from the date Ms H decided not to open the pub in July 2020, were not directly as a
result of the Governments enforced closure. I am not persuaded that her decision to close
the pub permanently was a sole and direct result of any requirement by the Government or
other authority. I appreciate that Ms Hs decision to close was a consequence of the
financial effect of the pandemic but this does not mean it should be covered under the policy.
Insurance policies do not cover every eventuality and any payment is still subject to the
policy terms. The FCA stressed that insurers should treat customers fairly but, as stated
above, that does not in my opinion mean they are required to pay for losses that are not
covered under the terms. I do not therefore consider that RSA can reasonably be required to
pay any loss of income Ms H suffered after the date she decided to not reopen the pub.
Delays and claim handling
RSA says it was not unreasonable to refuse the claim when it was first made and until the
Supreme Courts judgment in January 2021, there was no established legal principle on
which it could have been said that clauses such as the one in Ms Hs policy would respond
to the circumstances here. In addition, it says that any delay in receipt of settlement from it
was not the cause of Ms Hs decision to close the business, as the funds she had from the
Government meant she was no worse off due to the pandemic for that period of time.
While RSA has provided reasons why it didnt settle the claim sooner, ultimately the claim
was covered and this decision could have been made sooner than it was. I do think the
delay in confirming cover would have caused some avoidable distress and inconvenience.
and do think some compensation is warranted for this.
Ms H had to make a very difficult decision and I can understand why she decided to close
the business but I cannot agree that this was solely due to anything RSA did wrong. It might
be right that if it had confirmed cover in April 2020, she may have had some reassurance
about continuing the business but I do not think it was the reason for everything that
followed, including having to move to alternative accommodation.
Having considered everything, I think the sum of £350 would be appropriate
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited
to pay Ms H the sum of £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by
its delay in settling the claim.Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to m provisional decision with any information or arguments 
they want considered before I issue my final decision. 
RSA has confirmed it has nothing further to add. 
Ms H has responded and confirmed she does not accept my provisional decision. She has 
made some further points, which Ive summarised below: 
Ive failed to comment on a number of the points she made in support of the claim 
and complaint.
There is a lack of empathy about the extreme hardship arising from Covid-19, despite 
the guidelines issued by the FCA and no reasonable person outside of this service, 
FCA or the insurers would consider my provisional decision fair and reasonable. 
By refusing to take brave and bold decisions and favouring major insurers, we are 
forcing policyholders to the courts, when we are meant to be committed to avoiding 
this. 
Five out of the six Covid-19 Business Interruption case studies on our website favour 
the insurers, and the sixth asks for the insurer to reconsider the claim. There appear 
to be no case studies which favour the policyholder.
I stated that I had referred to case law, but not made any further comment on this 
and she asks for details of which recent cases we are using to guide our decision 
making.
It took RSA 13 months to pay the claim. The delay had disastrous consequences for 
her and the £350 proposed is derisory and demeaning given what she and her family 
went through.
I have not explained how the figure of £350 was reached. This should be reviewed 
and discussed with RSA, in an effort to come up with a figure which more reasonably 
reflects the impact on her. 
RSA could make an ex-gratia payment but this has been consistently ignored by 
RSA and not mentioned in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are an informal dispute resolution service set up as a free (to consumers) alternative to 
the courts. In deciding this complaint, I focused on what I consider to be the central issues 
that are relevant to the outcome of the complaint, rather than commenting on every issue in 
turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service 
and my remit. 
I also explained that in determining what is fair and reasonable, we have regard to the law. 
There has been some recent case law dealing with business interruption claims caused by 
Covid-19, in particular the FCA test case. It was this case that meant RSA changed its 
position and agreed the claim should be met. I am not relying on any other specific case law 
in my determination of Ms Hs complaint. Ms H has made reference to ongoing court cases 
that she says could affect the outcome of this case but there has been no evidence provided 
to me that any of these would be directly relevant to the issue of whether an insurer has to 
pay for losses after a business has ceased trading.  Ms H did make a number of points about the wording of the policy and whether it would 
provide cover beyond July 2020 and she thought she should be paid for the maximum period 
of indemnity of 12 months. However, I didnt think RSA had to pay anything more than it had, 
as she had decided to permanently close the pub by then. 
The policy covers losses arising out of closure and restrictions placed on the business by a 
public authority, until the insured cause of the busines interruption has ceased, up to a 
maximum period of 12 months. The insured cause of the business interruption stopped when 
Ms H decided to close the pub; the loss of income after that date was no longer the result of 
any closure or restrictions imposed. So RSA is not obliged to pay for losses beyond July 
2020. Ms H has not provided any further evidence or argument about this point and I 
therefore see no reason to change my provisional findings on this issue. 
Ms H also said she would not have had to close the pub if RSA had not delayed settlement 
of the claim. I can see that Ms H had a difficult decision to make in June/July 2020 and 
understand her decision to permanently close. However, I do not consider that this was the 
fault of RSA. The claim was for around £10,000 for March to July 2020. Ms H had received 
around £19,000 in Government assistance by May 2020 and so had received more than the 
claim was worth but still made the decision to close. So I do not consider that the decision 
was solely due to the delay in the claim.  
Ex gratia payment
RSA did answer Ms Hs request for an ex gratia payment in an email dated February 2021, 
saying it would not be fair to other policyholders to pay claims that are not covered. I have no 
power to require RSA to make an ex gratia payment. I can only make an insurer meet a 
claim if I consider a claim was wrongly refused. I stated in my provisional decision that a 
requirement to be fair and reasonable would not extend to meeting a claim that is not 
covered under the policy; and the fact RSA might have greater financial resources, does not 
mean it should be required to meet a claim that is not covered under the policy. I do not think 
RSA acted unreasonably in settling the claim in the way it did and so do not think it acted 
unreasonably in refusing to pay anything further. 
Compensation
It is my role to determine what I consider the fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint, 
having considered all the circumstances. RSA didnt offer any additional compensation. I 
considered that some compensation was warranted and so provided for that in my 
provisional decision. As I do not consider the closure of the pub was due to anything done 
wrong by RSA, it follows that I do not think the financial hardship caused by this decision 
(including Ms H and her partners loss of employment and their family home) are due to RSA 
either. The compensation I provisionally decided was not therefore meant to compensate for 
the situation she found herself in after leaving the pub. It is only intended to reflect the 
additional trouble caused by the delay in payment. There is no formula for calculating this 
kind of compensation, but the amount I provisionally decided is in line with awards made in 
similar cases. I remain of the opinion that £350 is appropriate. 
Ms H has also raised some points about our website but I dont consider that these are 
relevant to her complaint about RSA. My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Ms 
H the sum of £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by
its delay in settling the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman