DRN-4323021
The complaint
Mr L complained that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) failed to promptly and fully apply the 
premiums he paid for his flexible mortgage ISA (FMISA). He said this caused him a loss. 
Mr L was also unhappy about the fees he was charged in connection with the FMISA.
What happened
Mr L had a FMISA which hed previously established with a different provider. The 
administration of the FMISA was transferred from the previous provider to ReAssure.
ReAssure asked Mr Ls permission to continue collecting premiums from him for the FMISA.
In December 2021 Mr L called ReAssure saying he wanted to continue paying premiums to 
the FMISA.
On 20 December 2021 and 10 February 2022 ReAssure wrote to Mr L saying it 
acknowledged he wished to reinstate his policy, but before that could happen he had to 
complete a FMISA declaration and submit it to the investment manager.
On 21 February 2022 Mr L called ReAssure to say hed completed the FMISA declaration 
but nothing had been done. ReAssure made a note on its systems saying it hadnt received 
the declaration. On 16 March 2022 Mr L called ReAssure again saying hed completed the 
FMISA declaration. He later told us he completed and submitted the declaration multiple 
times.
On 17 March 2022 ReAssure wrote to Mr L saying it would collect £81.10 from his account 
each month. And the next collection would be £81.10 on or around 2 April 2022.
On 23 June 2022 Mr L called ReAssure saying the premiums it was collecting werent being 
applied to his FMISA.
On 11 October 2022 Mr L said he wanted to make a formal complaint because his premiums 
still werent being applied.
In response to Mr Ls complaint ReAssure acknowledged it had made an error. It said:
Mr L contacted ReAssure on 8 December 2021 saying hed like to start paying 
premiums again.
His first premium payment was on 4 April 2022.
Due to a system error ReAssure didnt apply his premiums to his FMISA.
ReAssure would ensure Mr Ls premiums were backdated to the day [ReAssure] 
received them so that Mr Ls FMISA would be put back into the correct position.
The investment manager was deducting fees directly from Mr Ls FMISA, but 
ReAssure would ensure Mr L hadnt lost out because of this once the premiums had 
been applied.
ReAssure also apologised and offered Mr L £250 in apology. 
In December 2022 ReAssure made a note that Mr L had received his compensation but his 
premiums still werent being applied.
In January 2023 ReAssure applied a lump sum premium of £727.72 to Mr Ls FMISA to 
make up the missing premiums.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with ReAssures actions. He said the following:
The premiums hed paid totalled more than the amount ReAssure had applied to his 
FMISA in January 2023.
When the investment manager for his FMISA had purchased investment units with 
the lump sum in January 2023, the price paid for the units was the January 2023 
price. And that price was higher than the average market price in 2022. So by 
delaying the application of his premiums ReAssure had caused Mr L to lose out by 
having fewer units in his FMISA than he shouldve had.
In April 2023 ReAssure said the amount it had paid in the lump sum covered the premiums 
he paid from April 2022 to February 2023, minus ReAssures administration and life cover 
charges.
ReAssure also said it had worked out how much Mr Ls FMISA wouldve been worth if the 
premiums had been applied on the collection dates and it had made up any differences to 
ensure Mr L hadnt suffered any detriment.
ReAssure said it would give Mr L an additional £250 in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused by its error.
Mr L referred his complaint to this service.
Our Investigators view
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint. In summary she said the following:
It wasnt in dispute that ReAssure failed to apply Mr Ls premiums between April 
2022 and January 2023.
To put things right ReAssure shouldve made sure Mr L had the same number of 
investment units in his FMISA as he wouldve had if ReAssure hadnt made its 
mistake. But ReAssure hadnt shown whether it had done this or not.
ReAssure also hadnt made clear whether it had taken into account the fact that the 
investment managers fees were being paid for by selling units in Mr Ls FMISA.
The available evidence indicated ReAssure didnt receive Mr Ls FMISA declaration 
until March 2022, so ReAssure wasnt at fault for not taking premiums before April 
2022.
If Mr L was unhappy that he had to pay different fees because his previous provider 
transferred the administration of his FMISA, Mr L would need to complain to the previous provider. But, taking into account the fees Mr L paid under the previous 
provider, the fees he was paying for the investments in the FMISA didnt appear to 
have increased.
The Investigator recommended that ReAssure work out how many investment units Mr L 
wouldve had in his FMISA if ReAssure hadnt made an error, and that if Mr L didnt have 
that number of units then ReAssure should pay into Mr Ls FMISA the amount needed to buy 
the missing units. And the Investigator said ReAssure should give Mr L a copy of its 
calculations so he could see that things had been put right for him.
Mr L said he agreed with the essence of the Investigators recommendations, but he thought 
ReAssure was responsible for no premiums being collected between November 2021 and 
March 2022. He said he completed the FMISA declaration in December 2021 at the latest, 
but ReAssure failed to process it before March 2022 despite Mr L having had numerous 
lengthy telephone calls with ReAssure and the investment manager.
The Investigator said the evidence wasnt enough to show, on balance, that ReAssure 
received a completed FMISA declaration from Mr L before March 2022. And even if the 
investment manager received one earlier, theres no evidence it was passed to ReAssure 
any earlier than March 2022.
ReAssure said it accepted the Investigators view about what happened, but it was devising 
its own method to put things right. And so it couldnt agree with the Investigators 
recommendations. ReAssure didnt say what its proposed method of putting things right 
would be.
Because no agreement could be reached, this complaint was passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that ReAssure made an error by not applying Mr Ls premiums to his ISA 
from April 2022 to January 2023. Whats not agreed is how ReAssure should put things right 
for Mr L.
Mr L also disagrees with the Investigators view that ReAssure didnt receive his signed 
FMISA declaration until March 2022. I understand Mr Ls frustration over this  I can see that 
he did have a number of conversations with ReAssure about the form prior to March 2022. 
But, having reviewed the evidence in full, I also dont think the evidence is sufficient for me to 
say that ReAssure did receive the form before March 2022. Contemporaneous notes from 
ReAssure showed it was aware Mr L wanted to resume paying premiums but it didnt have 
the form. While its likely that an error occurred at some point, I cant say where the error 
happened or who was responsible. And so I cant conclude on balance that ReAssure had 
the signed form before it said it did.
In relation to the missed premiums, my aim is to put Mr L back in the position he wouldve 
been in had ReAssure not made the mistake it made when it failed to apply his collected 
premiums to his FMISA.ReAssure has said that in January 2023 it applied the premiums paid by Mr L in the relevant 
period, minus its own fees and any life cover charges. But ReAssure hasnt provided any 
calculations to show how it calculated the amount it applied in January 2023.
ReAssure also hasnt shown that it took into account the impact of the delay in applying the 
premiums. If ReAssure had applied Mr Ls premiums each month when they were collected, 
Mr Ls premiums (minus fees and any other legitimate deductions) wouldve been used to 
buy investment units in his FMISA. Instead, Mr L was given a lump sum in January 2023 
which appears to have been used to buy investment units, possibly at the price that was 
current in January 2023. Because of this, and because the price of the units changes over 
time, its possible Mr L has fewer units in his FMISA than he would otherwise have had.
ReAssures mistake also had a potential impact on the way the investment managers fees 
were collected. Without Mr Ls premiums being applied to the FMISA, the investment 
manager had no way to collect its own fee other than to sell units in the FMISA that 
otherwise might not have been sold. So that might also have caused Mr L to have fewer 
units in his FMISA than he should have. This can be put right for Mr L if ReAssure ensures 
the amount its paid him in redress is enough to buy the number of units needed to give Mr L 
the same number of units he wouldve had if his premiums had been applied at the correct 
time.
Finally, I think Mr L has suffered significant distress and inconvenience as result of 
ReAssures actions. And its right that ReAssure should compensate him for that. But 
ReAssure has already offered Mr L £500 for that. And I think thats an appropriate amount 
for the distress and inconvenience Mr L has experienced.
Putting things right
As Ive said, my aim is to restore Mr L to the position he wouldve been in if ReAssure hadnt 
made a mistake with his FMISA premiums. I dont know how ReAssure calculated the 
amount it paid Mr L in January 2023. It might be that ReAssure factored in the lost growth on 
investment units that wouldve been bought earlier. Because ReAssure hasnt fully explained 
its methodology or provided any evidence to show the basis for the amount it paid in January 
2023, I consider it appropriate to give a direction to ReAssure to ensure Mr L is put back in 
the correct position.
To put things right for Mr L Reassure Limited must do the following things, if it hasnt done 
them already:
(1) Calculate how much Mr L paid in premiums in the relevant period and how much 
shouldve been deducted by ReAssure in fees and other legitimate charges before 
each premium was passed to the investment manager. Provide this calculation to 
Mr L.
(2) Calculate how many units Mr L wouldve had in his FMISA at January 2023 if 
ReAssure had applied all of his premiums as they were collected. To do this 
ReAssure should calculate, on the date it received each premium, how many units in 
Mr Ls FMISA he could have purchased with the premium net of the deductions 
calculated in (1) above. It should add those figures together for each missed 
premium, and then add that overall figure to the number of units Mr L had in his 
FMISA before the first missed premium. This will give the correct figure for the 
number of units Mr L shouldve had in his FMISA in January 2023. Provide this 
calculation to Mr L.
(3) Compare the figure calculated at (2) above with the number of units Mr L actually had in his FMISA after the lump sum of January 2023 had been invested. Provide this 
calculation to Mr L.
(4) If, after the January 2023 lump sum was invested, Mr L had fewer units than he 
shouldve had, make a payment into Mr Ls FMISA equal to the amount needed to 
buy the missing units. The payment should be in the amount needed to buy the 
required number of units at the time they will be purchased.
(5) Pay Mr L the £500 already offered for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
ReAssures error.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. ReAssure 
Limited must take the actions and pay the amounts set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Lucinda Puls
Ombudsman