DRN-4484110
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, who Ill call Santander. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators suggestion that Mr C should be allowed to reject the car he
has been financing, but I dont think the investigator has considered the loss of use Mr C has
had from the car, or the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. The redress Im
proposing is therefore different. Ill explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant
circumstances. And when we think about whether a car has been of satisfactory quality the
relevant legislation says we should consider whether it has been durable.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Mr C has experienced three issues with his new car within the first year of operation.
Warning lights appeared in December 2022 that indicated there was a problem with the
brakes; in January 2023 warning lights illuminated and suggested there was a gear selector
fault; and more recently the front detection radar warranted attention.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration as I dont think a reasonable person would expect to
have had so many problems with a brand new car so soon after theyd taken receipt of it. I
can also understand he would be concerned that the dealerships attempts to fix what
appears to be an intermittent electrical fault, have not been successful. While the dealership
say the replacement of the front detection radar has now resolved the issues with the car, it
is unclear how that repair could be said to have had an impact on the braking, or gear
selection issues, reported earlier.
In the circumstances, I dont think this car has been durable and I think Santander should
now allow Mr C to reject it.
Putting things right
Santander should collect the car at no cost to Mr C and they should end the finance
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr C has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money,
they will need to add interest to that refund.
When our investigator issued her view on this complaint Mr C had explained he didnt want
his loss of use to be considered, and that he simply wanted to exit the agreement. But that
was more than five months ago, and, in the meantime, Mr C does not appear to have had
use of his car and has continued to pay for it. I think Santander should, therefore, refund any
finance instalments Mr C has paid since he returned the courtesy car the dealership had
provided. Theyll need to add interest to that refund as Mr C has been deprived of that
money.
Mr C has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the
dealership on several occasions and hes had to escalate his complaint to this service when
I think it could have been resolved earlier. Hes also explained the impact this complaint has
had on his mental health. In the circumstances, I think Santander should pay him £150 to
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
This was a new car and I think the issues Mr C has experienced with it will have impacted on
his enjoyment of the car. To compensate Mr C for that Santander should refund 5% of the
monthly instalments Mr C has paid to his agreement, but its fair for them to retain the rest of
the payments as Mr C has had reasonable use of the car. I note the mileage he had covered
in the first year was broadly in line with his entitlement under his agreement of 10,000 per
year.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK)
Plc to:
Allow Mr C to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr C.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 5% of all finance instalments in respect of loss of enjoyment and add 8%
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr C £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Refund any finance instalments paid since Mr C returned the courtesy car and until
this complaint is settled. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment
to the date of settlement.Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Cs credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Further comments and/or evidence
Santander didnt provide any further information.
Mr C was happy with the decision. He explained that the car was still with the dealership and 
that hed returned the courtesy car on 10 March 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
My provisional decision, therefore, becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
Allow Mr C to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr C.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 5% of all finance instalments in respect of loss of enjoyment and add 8%
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr C £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Refund any finance instalments paid since Mr C returned the courtesy car (10 March 
2023) and until this complaint is settled. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Cs credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman