DRN-1715940
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the way that Tesco Personal Finance Plc ("Tesco") has handled his 
credit card account, particularly as it has sold the debt on to a third party. 
What happened
We looked at an earlier complaint between Mr O and Tesco in relation to this credit card 
account and issued a final decision. So I'll only be making a decision about what's happened 
since then.
Tesco last received payment from Mr O in October 2017. So, in August 2019, it sold the debt 
on to a third party. Mr O was unhappy his debt had been sold on and said he was due to 
receive some money which he was going to use to pay the balance off.
Mr O has told Tesco about his mental health problems and feels it has ignored these. He 
said this matter has caused him a significant amount of stress. He also said Tesco had sent 
him letters which were misleading and upsetting. So he wanted Tesco to take the account 
back, remove the default from his credit file, and pay him compensation.
Tesco said it hadn't heard anything from Mr O since October 2017, and had exhausted 
attempts to agree an arrangement with him. So it didn't agree that it was wrong to sell the 
debt on. It said that Mr O could still clear the debt through the new owner. And, once he'd 
done so, it would be reported as 'partially satisfied' with credit reference agencies. Tesco 
referred to its terms and conditions which state:
"We may transfer the rights and duties we have under this agreement to another 
lender or company in the future. We'll only do this if we reasonably believe they'll 
treat you at least as well as we do."
Tesco also explained that while it was aware of Mr O's mental health problems, it hadn't 
been provided with sufficient evidence to say that this has always affected his ability to 
manage his finances. And it said that, as it hadn't been able to communicate with Mr O in 
recent years, it wouldn't be able to review his situation, or complete an 'income and 
expenditure' even if it were to buy the debt back.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He referenced Section 12 of the Lending
Standards Board guidelines which say:
"Firms should follow a robust due diligence process when selecting third parties for 
debt collection or when selling a debt. ... If a customer has provided appropriate and 
relevant evidence of an ongoing mental health or critical illness that affects the 
customer's ability to repay their debts, the debt(s) should not be sold."
 
 
 He thought that, while Tesco hadn't signed up to the Lending Standards Board, the
guidelines were still a good indicator of the industry standard. He felt that Mr O's mental 
health problems, which had been impacted further by the loss of two family members, had 
likely hampered his ability to make payments towards his credit card. He thought that Tesco 
should have completed an 'income and expenditure review' to understand the fairest way to 
treat Mr O, and that it shouldn't have sold the debt on. He said Tesco should buy the debt 
back, manage it in-house, and pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr O agreed but Tesco didn't. It reiterated that it hadn't received sufficient evidence of how 
Mr O's mental health affected his ability to manage his finances - and said it would 
reconsider its position if this was provided. And it explained further how it hadn't been able to 
make contact with Mr O, so had sold the debt to a firm  whose speciality is dealing with 
customers in financial difficulty  to collect a balance that Tesco had failed to collect.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued my provisional decision on this case in March 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr O, I'm minded to disagree with our 
investigator. I don't think this complaint should be upheld - I'll explain why.
Before I do, I'd just like to say how sorry I am to hear about the passing of Mr O's close 
relatives. I can imagine this would've had a significant impact to him, and would've impacted 
his mental health further. And I'm sorry to hear about how difficult things have been for him.
While taking the above into account, I do need to think about whether Tesco has done 
anything wrong here. And, while Mr O has had an incredibly difficult time, it doesn't 
necessarily follow that Tesco has been unfair or unreasonable in selling the debt on.
Tesco provided a credit facility to Mr O, and it has a right to try to recoup the amount it's lent 
to him. Credit providers are expected to act positively and sympathetically where a 
consumer is in financial difficulty. But it's not unreasonable for a business to request 
information about the extent of the difficulty. And it doesn't mean Tesco has to cease all 
efforts to recover the money. Seemingly, Tesco made attempts to contact Mr O, in an effort 
to review his financial circumstances. But when nothing came of this after almost two years, 
it sold the debt on.
I've taken into account the guidelines set by the Lending Standards Board, but I think that 
Tesco exhausted reasonable attempts to contact Mr O. And it can't be expected to simply 
write-off the debt, or continue trying to pursue it, when its reasonable attempts had failed to 
get anywhere. So I don't think it was wrong to sell the debt on. 
Thinking about the consequences of it doing so, I note that Mr O isn't in a significantly worse 
position. The amount of the debt remains the same, and Mr O owed the money, regardless 
of which business he owed it to. I can't see that there's been financial detriment caused by 
the debt being sold on. And, while a default was applied to his credit file, I don't think it was 
unfair of Tesco to apply this, given the aforementioned actions of Tesco.
A new debt owner might apply different terms to the debt or use alternative methods to 
recoup it. But I note that Mr O said he'd be able to repay the debt when he received a sum of 
money. And, from what he told us, it would appear that he's now in receipt of that money. 
So, in theory, he could now repay this debt. And, if that isn't possible, he could contact the new debt owner to make it aware of his circumstances and try to agree an appropriate way 
forward. Tesco has indicated that the debt owner will treat him at least as well as Tesco has 
done so far. And I haven't been told about anything that would lead me to think this untrue.
I'd also point out here that I haven't been given any evidence of letters sent to Mr O that 
were misleading or upsetting.
So, based on what I've seen so far, I don't think it would be fair or reasonable to suggest that 
Tesco was wrong to sell the debt on. In my opinion, it would be unfair to expect Tesco to 
keep hold of the debt when it seems to have been unable to have any meaningful 
communication with Mr O, or attempts from him to pay, for quite some time. So while I 
appreciate Mr O's difficult circumstances, I don't think Tesco has been given enough 
information about his mental health or financial problems for me to conclude it was unfair for 
the debt to be sold on. Nor have I seen anything which persuades me that Mr O is worse off 
 either financially, or in terms of the support available to him  as a result of Tesco selling 
on the debt. And for that reason, I'm not minded to uphold the complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision. Tesco didnt have anything 
further to add. Mr O responded to express how strongly he felt that Tesco shouldve placed 
his account on hold. He pointed out that an appropriate organisation had contacted Tesco to 
do this and reiterates that it sold his debt on anyway, and he provided documentation around 
this. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr O feels strongly that Tesco has treated him unfairly by selling his debt on. I dont 
doubt that Mr O has ongoing mental health issues, and Im very sorry to hear about this. But 
I do have to take into account that the evidence Ive seen, including that provided in 
response to my provisional decision, is from 2017. And, while this evidence makes it clear 
that Mr O is having mental health and financial problems, theres not enough to say that it 
was his mental health that was affecting his ability to meet his repayments. Instead, it 
appears that his income was the issue here.
It still stands that Tesco wouldve been required to treat him positively and sympathetically. 
But Id point out here that it wasnt until August 2019 that the account was sold on. And, as I 
noted previously, I havent seen or been told about any meaningful communication between 
the end of 2017 and August 2019. I know Mr O had a lot going on during this time and I can 
see why finances might not have been at the forefront of his mind, but I do have to think 
about what Tesco was made aware of for this period which was almost two years. And, in 
this case, it doesnt seem to have been made aware of very much. So I maintain the position 
that Tesco cant be expected to keep the account indefinitely without receiving payments, 
and without hearing from Mr O. 
So I see no reason to reach a different outcome to my provisional decision. Ultimately, I think 
it was fair for Tesco to try to recoup its money in this case, particularly as it wasnt made 
aware of how Mr Os circumstances affected his ability to pay. And I cant see that Mr O has 
been treated unfairly as a result, given that it was sold on to a business that it expects would 
treat him at least as well as Tesco wouldve done. 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman