DRN-2098082
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP).
What happened
In 2009 Mrs M took out TMPP cover to protect her mortgage repayments in the event of 
accident and sickness. It also provided other benefits but Im just dealing here with Mrs Ms 
complaint that she was mis-sold the PPI part. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Mrs M disagrees. 
Mainly she complains that she was led to believe her mortgage application would be rejected 
if she didn't take out the insurance. Mrs M feels its unfair not to uphold her complaint when 
Halifax cant provide paperwork from the sale. Mrs M told us too that she didnt need PPI. 
And shes also concerned that our adjudicator hasnt taken properly into account everything 
shes said about there being an unfair relationship which Halifax took advantage of.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Heres why I say this.
Ideally Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. Halifax couldnt provide all the documents from 
the time of sale. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, 
given how long ago this sale happened, that all the paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Halifax or Mrs M to have kept this. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs M is certain about what shes told us. But its completely 
understandable that Mrs M mightve forgotten some of the details of this sale as it was so 
long ago. This means that what Mrs M says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold her complaint. I have to look at everything Ive been told and sent and decide what 
I think is most likely.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax normally used around the time 
Mrs M took out her cover. And we already know from looking at other cases what the usual 
process was when Halifax sold TMPP. Ive no clear reason to think that Halifax wouldnt 
have followed its normal sales process here. So I think its likely that PPI was explained and 
recommended for Mrs M. And I think its likely that Mrs M would have known at the time that 
PPI was optional and that she agreed to take it out. 
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ms mortgage offer which clearly states that she didnt have to take 
out any insurance through Halifax. And the only insurance she had to take out as a condition 
of the mortgage was buildings insurance  not PPI.
This information was repeated on the Key Facts document that Halifax sent to Mrs M.
There wasnt anything in the mortgage offer or other paperwork Ive seen that wouldve led 
Mrs M to think that PPI was compulsory with the mortgage she took out. 
And she didnt take out unemployment cover with this mortgage which makes me think she 
appreciated that it was her choice to say what insurance, if any, she required. 
She also mentioned that shed previously taken out a mortgage without PPI. 
To my mind, all of this points to Mrs M being aware at the time that PPI wasnt something 
she had to have with this mortgage.
And Halifax sent Mrs M a welcome letter shortly after the meeting saying Thank you for 
choosing our optional Halifax Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP.
Also included with this letter was a page headed: IMPORTANT INFORMATION - YOUR 
RIGHT TO CHANGE YOUR MIND. 
This explained that Mrs M could cancel the insurance within the next 30 days and get back 
any money shed paid for it  and she could cancel the policy at any time after that at no 
extra cost if she didnt want it.
So, although I dont know what was said to Mrs M about the PPI, I think she wouldve been 
able to see from looking at this paperwork that it was up to her to say whether or not she 
wanted PPI. And even if shed taken it out thinking she had to have the policy set up, I think 
Halifax made her aware that she was free to cancel it without incurring any penalty if it 
wasnt something she really wanted.
On balance, I think it wouldve been clear to Mrs M that PPI was optional and she decided to 
buy the policy. 
Halifax recommended PPI to Mrs M. If a financial business makes a recommendation about 
PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well 
as giving important policy information in a clear way. 
It looks like PPI was suitable for Mrs M based on what Ive seen of her circumstances when 
the policy was sold. 
She was eligible for the cover. 
Although Mrs M had good sick pay entitlement through work this doesnt mean that Halifaxs 
recommendation was unsuitable.  
PPI couldve protected Mrs M if she was disabled or too sick to work for up to 12 months per 
claim  significantly longer than shed have been able to rely on getting sick pay through 
work. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any other income coming in from work which I think 
couldve been useful if Mrs M found she had extra costs as a result of being too unwell to go 
back to work. 
And Mrs M couldve made repeated claims under the policy. So PPI gave her long term 
protection for her mortgage. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.
Having PPI meant Mrs M could be sure she would be able to make her mortgage monthly 
repayments even if she was too sick or disabled to work. I think this couldve been an 
important consideration at the time for Mrs M  even if shes now forgotten this. And I think 
PPI was suitable for her, looking at what I know about her circumstances at the time.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mrs Ms case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPIs cost and benefits were made clear to Mrs M when she bought the 
policy. But she chose to take out the cover when she didnt have to - so she seems to have 
wanted the insurance at the time. The cost of the policy was shown in the welcome letter 
sent to her and she couldve queried it then if she decided this wasnt something she wanted 
to pay for. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed, as the 
policy gave her useful protection in her particular situation. 
I dont think better information wouldve stopped Mrs M buying PPI. So I dont find she has 
lost out as a result of anything Halifax may have done wrong during the sales process.
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ms comments, including what shes said in response to our 
adjudicators view about the offer Halifax made to settle her complaint.
Our adjudicator explained that weve looked at how Halifax has worked out these types of 
offers and we think theyre working these out fairly.
As Halifax has already offered to give back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M I dont think 
it needs to do anything more. I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs M.
So these points dont change my conclusion. I appreciate that my decision will disappoint 
Mrs M, but I hope that setting things out as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman