DRN-4201223
The complaint
Mr G complains about pension advice provided by The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (Royal London).
What happened
In 1991, an advisor who Royal London is now responsible for advised Mr G to transfer out of 
his occupational pension scheme.
In the late 90s, the then Regulator told all firms to investigate sales of this nature as it 
believed many people had been mis-advised. Royal London reviewed the advice provided to 
Mr G and said that, whilst it was unsuitable advice, he hadnt suffered a financial loss. It 
wrote to Mr G to confirm this in 2001.
Mr G complained to Royal London in 2022 about the advice in 1991. He said the advice had 
been unsuitable and he was now financially worse off. 
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had already reviewed the advice Mr G 
had received as part of the industry wide review and wasnt required to review it again.
Mr G didnt accept this and referred the matter to our Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said that Royal London 
had already reviewed this advice and found that there had been no loss. And that it wasnt 
required to review it again.   
Mr G disagreed with our Investigator. He said that he hadnt been living at the address that 
Royal London had written to with the outcome of the review in 2001, so he was never able to 
challenge the review. Mr G asked for the complaint to considered by an Ombudsman. So its 
been passed to me to review and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Pension Review was instigated by the then Regulator, and Mr Gs pension transfer was 
reviewed as part of this process. It was the Regulator who told firms how to offer redress in a 
number of scenarios. And the Pension Review calculations were subject to supervision and 
sampling at the time by the Regulator. 
Its important to note that under the industry wide Pension Review established by the 
regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards 
and assumptions the Regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the 
assumptions or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the 
future loss.
The Regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-selling from 
around the time of the review, and would put things right at the time. Once a business 
carried out a Pension Review for a customer, they werent required to review it again.
Mr G says he didnt receive the letter setting out the outcome of the pension review as he 
was no longer at that address. Mr G has provided evidence that he was at another address 
at this time, so Im willing to accept that he likely didnt receive the outcome of this review. 
However, this doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint in my mind. Royal London was 
required to carry out the review at this time, and its provided evidence that it did. I dont see 
that Mr G not receiving confirmation of this review has altered how Mr G wouldve acted in 
2001. Even if he had received the outcome of the review in 2001 and questioned it, I cant 
see that the outcome of the review would be any different given the way in which the review 
was conducted was set out by the then Regulator and had to be followed by businesses. 
Royal London has provided the record of inputs it used to complete the review. And there 
are no obvious errors here. Our service doesnt offer a calculation checking service. But from 
what Ive seen, it broadly looks like the review was carried out correctly. 
Unfortunately, the assumptions the Regulator required firms to use in Pension Review 
calculations (for example future investment returns and annuity rates) havent been borne 
out in reality. And I do understand why Mr G now feels hes worse off as a result of the 
advice from Royal London. However, as Ive explained above, the Pension Review was 
designed to be a one-off exercise done using specific assumptions that were approved by 
the Regulator.
In summary, Im satisfied Royal London did carry out the pension review it was required to in 
2001. And it was only required to carry this out once. As Ive set out above, whilst Mr G may 
not have received the outcome of the review, I dont think this has any baring as the review 
was carried out as required. Because of this, I dont think Royal London needs to take any 
further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman