DRN-4146705
The complaint
Miss B complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd didnt explain that a withdrawal from her 
personal pension would trigger her Money Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA), causing 
her distress, inconvenience and financial loss. 
  
What happened
As part of consolidating her pensions, Miss B transferred the full amount in her Aviva 
personal pension to a new provider in November 2021. But a dividend of £161.76 was later 
paid into her Aviva pension. After communicating with Aviva, Miss B withdrew this amount 
into her bank account.
Aviva wrote to Miss B on 24 August 2022 to say this withdrawal had triggered her MPAA, 
and her annual allowance for money purchase contributions was now set at £4,000 and she 
may incur an MPAA charge on the excess over £4,000.
In September 2022, Miss B complained to Aviva that it hadnt explained the withdrawal of 
£161.76 would trigger her MPAA. In October 2022, Miss B repaid the £161.76 to Aviva. And 
to prevent an MPAA charge, she changed her status in her employers pension plan from 
active to partial-membership. Under this, Miss B could contribute between £1 and £3,333 
per month; she chose to reduce her pension contributions to £1. But no employer pension 
contribution would be made; in lieu of this, Miss B would be paid a non-pensionable salary 
supplement (NPSS) set at 10.5% of pensionable salary, and subject to tax and national 
insurance contributions (NI).
In communication with Miss B, Aviva said shed not yet provided enough evidence of her 
actual financial loss. But it thought her financial loss was £334.60 between October and 
November 2022, based on her lost tax relief of £95.43 per month on her own pension 
contributions, and her receiving £71.87 less per month in employer pension contributions. 
Aviva said it would reconsider this amount if Miss B provided further evidence of her loss.
On 14 November 2022, Aviva issued its final response letter (FRL) to Miss Bs complaint. It 
accepted it hadnt ensured she was aware withdrawing the £161.76 would trigger her MPAA. 
And that if it had, she wouldnt have gone ahead. Aviva said it had put things right by:
Accepting the £161.76 back into Miss Bs pension.
Reversing Miss Bs MPAA so it was no longer triggered. 
Paying Miss B £750 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
Aviva caused her between August and October 2022.
Paying Miss B £334.60 compensation for the unnecessary financial loss it had caused 
her in October and November 2022. 
Setting out an explanation of this matter in the FRL so Miss B could share it with HMRC. 
In January 2023 Miss B came to our Service. She thought Aviva should provide an official 
explanation she could share with HMRC regarding this matter. And should reconsider the 
amount of compensation given the ongoing distress, inconvenience and financial loss it was 
causing her by not putting things right to her satisfaction, as she was still in partial-
membership status in her employers pension scheme.
 
Aviva told us it hadnt automatically notified HMRC about the MPAA being triggered, so it 
didnt notify HMRC of the MPAA reversal either. Overall, Aviva thought it had done what it 
could to put things right and that Miss B hadnt mitigated her losses. 
Ultimately, our Investigator thought that by the time Aviva had issued its FRL on 
14 November 2022, it had done enough to put its error right. So Aviva wasnt responsible for 
any financial loss Miss B might have experienced after this. 
Miss B disagreed. She said that if she hadnt changed her status in her employers pension 
scheme to partial-membership, she would have incurred an MPAA charge. That the 
explanation in Avivas FRL wasnt suitable for sharing with HMRC and her employer, as it 
should have been separate and on headed paper, and included the date, her personal 
details, and her plan number. And she suggested shed mitigated her loss by coming to our 
Service within a reasonable time. Miss B also thought Avivas calculation of her financial loss 
wasnt clear. Miss B set out alternative calculations to say her financial loss ran from October 
2022 to March 2023 and totalled £2,223.78, comprising:
Lost tax relief of £95.83 per month on her own pension contributions.
Lost tax relief of £230.00 per month on her employers contributions.
Investment loss of £44.80 per month, since she and her employer had paid less than 
usual in pension contributions.
When asked to comment on this, Aviva said Miss B hadnt provided any evidence to support 
her calculations. Its FRL met Miss Bs requirements and shed not passed on any specific 
requirements from HMRC or her employer. And Miss B could have mitigated her losses after 
its FRL; tax relief would be automatically applied if and when the missed personal 
contributions were paid into her pension, so without such a payment there was no financial 
loss. And employer contributions didnt attract tax relief for Miss B.
Our Investigator didnt change his view. Miss B provided updated calculations of her financial 
loss which said her loss ran from October 2022 to March 2023 and totalled £2,300.32, 
comprising:
About £100.21 per month of additional income tax and NI contributions shed paid on 
the income shed received in lieu of her contributions to her pension.
About £211.31 per month of additional income tax and NI contributions shed paid on 
the income shed received in lieu of her employer contributing it to her pension.
Her employer also had to pay NI contributions on the income it paid Miss B in lieu of its 
monthly employer pension contributions, which meant Miss B received £71.87 less 
income per month from her employer.
When asked to comment on this, Aviva asked for Miss Bs August to November 2022 
payslips, plus her employers payroll cut-off date so it could review whether to compensate 
Miss B further for lost tax relief. But Aviva said it would only seek to compensate Miss B for 
any tax relief shed missed out on up to the point she could have restored her contributions.
Miss B told us her latest P60 showed a tax code change between September 2022 and 
March 2023, and shed now provided Avivas FRL to HMRC so this could be put right. But 
she thought this was another frustrating and inconvenient consequence of Avivas error. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. At my request, Miss B provided her payslips and employer payroll cut-off information which I 
passed to Aviva for comment. Aviva said Miss B had paid more tax but received higher net 
pay, so shed made a financial gain. That it didnt have enough information about her 
employers pension scheme to comment on the difference between the NPSS set at 10.5% 
of pensionable salary and the employers full contribution of 12%. But the compensation it 
had already paid would cover any financial loss it caused Miss B in October and November 
2022 in any case. 
I contacted Miss B and Aviva to explain why I thought the only actual financial loss Aviva had 
caused Miss B was investment loss totalling £134.40, but Aviva didnt need to do anything 
further about that as it had already paid her more than this in compensation for her financial 
loss. And that the additional £750 compensation Aviva had paid for Miss Bs distress and 
inconvenience was fair and reasonable. 
Aviva agreed and had nothing further to add. But Miss B didnt agree with my thoughts. In 
summary, she said her loss calculations were correct as shed taken care to have them 
checked but Id only addressed her investment loss, not all of the financial loss they set out. 
So she thought Aviva should pay her a further £815.56 for her financial loss, and that £750 
wasnt enough compensation for her distress and inconvenience given how long this matter 
had gone on. 
Im now in a position to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to acknowledge that Miss B and Aviva have provided me with a great deal of 
detailed comments and evidence. Ive carefully considered all of this, but I wont mention 
everything Ive been provided with. I mean no discourtesy, its simply that Ill only address 
the comments and evidence I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to the crux of Miss Bs complaint, which is that Aviva didnt explain that a 
withdrawal from her pension would trigger her MPAA.
Aviva itself accepts it didnt ensure Miss B was aware this withdrawal would trigger her 
MPAA, and that if it had, she wouldnt have gone ahead with the withdrawal. As thats not in 
dispute, I dont need to consider that any further.
So whats left for me to consider is what would be a fair and reasonable way to put things 
right. Our Services approach to this is to put the consumer back, as closely as possible, into 
the position they should have been in if not for the business error. As part of this, we 
consider whether the business error caused the consumer any unnecessary financial loss, 
distress and inconvenience. And we consider whether the consumer could reasonably have 
mitigated their loss. 
Aviva argues that the time frame of Miss Bs potential financial loss runs from October to 
November 2022, because it thinks that after it had provided its final response to her 
complaint (FRL) on 14 November 2022, she could have taken steps to mitigate her loss by 
restoring the pension contributions to what theyd been before the issue arose. But 
Miss Bs view is that because Aviva didnt settle the complaint to her satisfaction, her 
financial loss runs to March 2023. And she suggests she did mitigate her loss by bringing 
her complaint to our Service within a reasonable time. Im satisfied that when Aviva issued its FRL on 14 November 2022, it had by then given 
Miss B enough information to enable her to restore the pension contributions paid by both 
her and her employer to what they had been prior to Avivas error, and without the worry that 
she might incur an MPAA charge. I say this because Aviva had:
Accepted it made an error that wrongly caused Miss Bs MPAA to be triggered.
Made clear Miss Bs MPAA had been reversed so it was no longer triggered.
Accepted the incorrect withdrawal of £161.76 back into Miss Bs Aviva pension.
Paid Miss B compensation of £750 for her distress and inconvenience plus £334.60 
compensation for her financial loss, albeit Miss B doesnt think this is sufficient. 
In particular, Aviva had also set out an explanation of this matter in its FRL for Miss B to 
share with HMRC and any other parties she thought necessary. Miss B says the format of 
that explanation was unsuitable. But this seems to be her belief rather than anything HMRC 
has said about its requirements, as I understand Miss B didnt share Avivas FRL with HMRC 
until June 2023, and shes not told our Service that HMRC has raised any issue with it. 
So by 14 November 2022, I think Aviva had provided Miss B with enough information to 
allow her to mitigate her potential losses. That said, I dont think its reasonable to expect 
that to have happened immediately. Miss B would have needed some time to raise this with 
her employer, and her employer would likely have taken some time to process things. In 
addition, her employers payroll cut-off date was at the start of the month, and it was already 
halfway through the month when Aviva issued its FRL. So its reasonable to think the 
pension contributions could have been restored by January 2023, and Miss B bringing her 
complaint to our Service didnt preclude this. I think its likely that if Miss B had restored the 
pension contributions, shed have begun to benefit again from tax relief and investment 
growth on the pension contributions, as she had done before the issue arose. Given all this, 
Im satisfied the time frame of Miss Bs potential financial loss runs from October to 
December 2022.
Ive gone on to consider what financial loss Aviva caused Miss B during this time frame. I 
acknowledge Miss B says shes had her calculations checked and they are correct, and that 
Ive not considered all of the financial loss they set out. As I say, Ive considered everything 
provided to me. And I do think Avivas error has caused consequences for Miss B. But Im 
not satisfied these consequences amount to the actual financial loss Miss B believes shes 
been caused, as set out in her various calculations.
As Ive explained, I need to consider the position Miss B should have been in if not for 
Avivas error. Had Aviva not made that error, Miss B and her employer would have continued 
to contribute to her pension without interruption. Its my understanding that her employers 
pension contributions wouldnt have attracted any tax relief for Miss B, and that her own 
pension contributions wouldnt have resulted in reduced NI contributions. But Miss Bs own 
pension contributions would have been paid before she was taxed, therefore she would have 
paid less income tax because her tax would be calculated based on a lower amount of 
earnings. So Miss Bs tax relief would be in the form of paying less income tax straight away. 
Based on Miss Bs testimony and payslips, Im satisfied Avivas error caused her to arrange 
for contributions to her pension to be minimised in October 2022. This meant her own 
monthly pension contributions were reduced from £239.58 to £1, and her employers 
monthly pension contributions were reduced from £575 to nothing.
However, the funds that should have been contributed to Miss Bs pension by her and her 
employer were instead mostly paid in lieu to Miss B, though I note she continued to pay a 
monthly pension contribution of £1, and her employer paid her £503.13 a month as a non-pensionable salary supplement. So Miss Bs employer paid Miss B £71.87 less per month in 
lieu than it had been paying into her pension.
Ive seen nothing to make me think Miss B is now unable to pay these funds (i.e. both the 
£238.58 and the £503.13 she received each month in lieu of pension contributions) into her 
pension. And my understanding is that if she paid these funds into her pension, all of them 
would attract tax relief at the higher rate of 40%. So I think this more than accounts for the 
tax related losses Miss B believes shes been caused across what Im satisfied is the three-
month time frame of her potential financial loss, as well as the £71.87 per month reduction in 
what her employer paid and any additional NI Miss B may have paid during that same three-
month time frame. 
That said, Avivas error meant less was being contributed towards Miss Bs pension. And 
given the relatively short period of time, I dont think its reasonable to expect Miss B to have 
arranged an alternative investment for the funds she received in lieu of pension 
contributions. So, Im satisfied Miss Bs been caused an investment loss. Miss B estimates 
her investment loss to be £44.80 per month. Ive not been provided with any documentary 
evidence to support this estimate. But Im mindful its a relatively small amount, and that 
asking Aviva to do a loss calculation would involve additional time and effort for both parties. 
Given all this, I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to simply use Miss Bs estimate of 
£44.80 per month, to bring finality and certainty for the benefit of both parties. Therefore, 
across the three-month time frame of Miss Bs financial loss, her investment loss totals 
£134.40. 
Regarding an MPAA charge, Miss B has confirmed shes not incurred such a charge 
because she took preventative action by minimising the monthly pension contributions. So 
Aviva hasnt caused Miss B any unnecessary financial loss there. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Aviva needs to pay Miss B any 
further compensation regarding her financial loss. Aviva has itself already paid Miss B 
£334.60 of compensation for her financial loss, and Im mindful that if Miss B pays all the 
funds she received each month in lieu of pension contributions into her pension, shell attract 
tax relief at the higher rate of 40% on all of those funds. 
Ive considered whether Avivas error caused Miss B any unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience, and I think it did. She would have been distressed to receive Avivas MPAA 
trigger notification letter of 24 August 2022 and worried she was at risk of incurring an MPAA 
charge. She was then inconvenienced by having to change her pension status and reduce 
her pension contributions to protect against a possible MPAA charge, and by having to 
return £161.76 to Aviva. Miss B will also be further inconvenienced by having to restore her 
pension status and contributions to what they had been, and by claiming her missing tax 
relief. Miss B highlights this matter has gone on for a long time and while I agree her distress 
and inconvenience has stretched over several months, Ive explained why I think that by 
14 November 2022 Aviva had given Miss B enough information to enable her to take steps 
to mitigate her loss. Overall, Im satisfied that the £750 Aviva has already paid Miss B for her 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable compensation for that. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd to do anything 
further to put things right here as Ive seen that it has already paid Miss B the compensation 
Ive referred to above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman