DRN-3790345
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) mis-sold his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
During a call with a customer service adviser, Mr E enquired about changing the car on his 
policy. As his new car was previously declared a category N write off, he asked the adviser 
how this would impact him, in the event it was declared a total loss. The adviser explained 
that she wasnt trained to answer questions of that nature, but he could put any questions or 
concerns to the claims team. After the call, Mr E proceeded to make the policy adjustment 
online. 
Mr E later made a claim on the policy, and his car was declared a total loss. During the 
claim, he was advised that the market value of his car would be reduced by 20% to reflect 
the fact it was previously written off. Mr E didnt think this was fair and raised two complaints. 
He complained about the settlement, but also said the policy had been mis-sold as he wasnt 
warned about the possible value deduction, when he enquired about changing his car. He 
also said the policy terms and conditions werent clear enough in relation to this issue.
Admiral didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold but did acknowledge that better customer 
service should have been provided. They said the adviser was right to say they couldnt 
answer his question as they werent trained to do so. However, they should reasonably have 
contacted the appropriate team during the call to find out the answer for him. Admiral 
therefore offered to reduce the value deduction from 20% to 10% as a gesture of goodwill 
and they also paid Mr E £150. This compensation took into account the above concern and 
two other customer service issues connected with the claim. 
Mr E didnt think this redress went far enough and said Admiral shouldnt deduct anything 
from the market value. An investigator then considered both complaints. In relation to the 
mis-sale concern, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he said Admiral had 
already provided fair redress for the poor customer service. He also said he wasnt 
convinced Mr E would have acted any differently, even if he had received an answer to his 
question about the valuation process.
Mr E disagreed, so Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
Ive previously sent Mr E my final decision about the way his claim was settled, so I wont 
address it again here. Ill only comment on his complaint that his policy was mis-sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for these reasons: 
Mr E has said his policy was mis-sold, as he wasnt given clear information when he 
enquired about changing the car insured under the policy. So, Ive listened to the call 
recording where this adjustment was discussed. I note that during the call, Mr E said 
his car was previously declared a category N write off and he asked how this would 
impact him in the event of a claim. As Admiral have acknowledged, the adviser said 
she couldnt answer his question in response. This was poor customer service, but I 
didnt hear anything that suggested she provided misleading, unclear, or incorrect 
information. Mr E didnt receive a response to his question, but he still proceeded to 
make the policy adjustment in any event. As such, the only information he could 
reasonably have relied upon about this issue was contained in the policy terms.
As Mr E is already aware, Im satisfied the policy terms and conditions are sufficiently 
clear. The terms dont say a deduction will be made to the market value if the insured 
car was previously written off. However, they do clearly explain that the condition and 
specification of the car will be taken into consideration. As such, Im satisfied Admiral 
provided Mr E with enough information about the way they'd calculate a fair market 
value, if his car was declared a total loss.
In any event, even if Admiral had given Mr E additional information in response to his 
question, I dont think its likely he would have done anything differently. I say this as 
based on my understanding, except for agreed value policies (which are usually 
taken out by owners of classic cars) most motor insurance policies determine a fair 
market value/total loss settlement in a similar way. This includes taking the condition 
and specification of the insured car into consideration. Its also widely accepted that a 
car that was previously written off will attract a lower selling price, as it's less 
desirable to potential buyers. So, while I appreciate Mr E feels strongly that hes been 
disadvantaged, I dont agree this is likely to be the case.
Admiral have accepted the customer service they provided Mr E fell below their usual 
standard. As theyve already paid him £150 compensation to reflect this and reduced 
the market value deduction to 10%, I see no grounds for directing them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman