DRN-4215827
The complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost to a scam.
What happened
Mr H fell victim to an investment scam. He searched online for an investment opportunity 
and was contacted by someone claiming to be from an investment platform which could help 
him make money. He wasnt sure whether hed left his details with that particular platform 
and suspects they might have purchased his data.
Mr H was initially sceptical, but the investment platform gave him a free £25 in order to 
trade with. These trades appeared to be successful and, on 11 August 2022, Mr H made his 
first payment of £200 to the platform. He made the payment to his own account at a genuine 
cryptocurrency provider before purchasing cryptocurrency and transferring it to the fraudster. 
It appears that he also introduced his wife and a friend to the scheme. He made a number of 
payments to the platform culminating in a payment of £5,000.
In late August 2022, Mr H watched a video about cryptocurrency scams. The video 
described circumstances which closely matched his own. Now suspicious, he tried to 
withdraw his investment, but was met with excuses before being told that the value of the 
investment had plummeted. 
Mr H reported to Revolut that hed been the victim of a scam. It declined his claim. He 
referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators upheld the complaint in part. 
They thought that Revolut should have been alerted to the potential scam risk when Mr H 
made the final payment of £5,000. The Investigator said that Revolut should have intervened 
to question this payment and, had it done so, the scam would have come to light and the 
loss would have been prevented. However, they also thought that Mr H should bear some 
responsibility for the loss. Mr H said that hed checked a well-known review website before 
going ahead but our Investigator could see that only one negative review existed at that 
time.
 
Revolut accepted our Investigators view, but Mr H did not. In summary he argued:
-The fraudulent investment company operated professionally and it would have been 
difficult for anyone to realise they werent legitimate
-The negative review did not confirm that the fraudulent investment company was a 
scam. The reviewer did not lose money. 
-The call from the fraudulent investment company was not entirely unexpected as he 
had left his details with several different companies. 
-The fact Mr H was able to withdraw a small sum from the scheme provided 
significant reassurance to him. 
-He recognises the risk of cryptocurrency but points out that many legitimate 
cryptocurrency platforms are unregulated.
-The Investigator was putting too high a standard on him. He wasnt in a position to 
recognise the concerning aspects of the scam that the Investigator highlighted. 
-He did question the fraudsters, but they seemed to have an answer for everything.
-A 50/50 split was not fair, given the asymmetry of the relationship between him and 
Revolut.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations is that Mr H is responsible for payments 
hes authorised himself. But taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time these 
payments were made, I think Revolut ought, fairly and reasonably, to have been on the 
lookout for out of character and unusual transactions and other indications that its customer 
might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Revolut has accepted the Investigators opinion and Mr H has made no further 
representations about the transactions prior to the £5,000 payment. For the avoidance of 
doubt, I dont think Revolut should have considered the earlier transactions to be suspicious. 
The highest value payment was £330, the three payments were spread out over a week and 
there wasnt anything obviously concerning about them.
It isnt necessary for me to consider whether Revolut should have intervened on the £5,000 
payment and whether such an intervention would have prevented Mr Hs loss. Revolut 
appears to accept this. So, Im only left to decide whether Revolut should refund all, or part, 
of the £5,000 payment.
I accept Mr H was not an experienced investor and appears to have known little about 
cryptocurrency. He was a layman and I dont wish to hold him to an unreasonable standard. 
Im also conscious that Mr H seems to have had some awareness that cryptocurrency is not 
generally regulated and, as such, might not have expected the platform he used to be 
regulated. 
But, while the contact Mr H received may not have been entirely unsolicited, its not clear 
that he was expecting to hear from that specific investment company. He appears to have 
been sceptical of their persistent approaches and initially declined the opportunity. I would 
expect Mr H to carry out some due diligence, particularly in light of that apparent scepticism 
and the nature of the contact. He says he did carry out due diligence by checking a well-
known review website before going ahead. As has already been discussed, at that time 
there was a single negative review of the investment company. While true that the reviewer 
hadnt lost money themselves, they provided a clear and stark warning that the investment 
company was unlikely to be legitimate. And, I havent been able to find any independent 
reviews of the investment company that suggests they were legitimate. So, if Mr H did carry 
out any due diligence on the firm I cant see that he would have found any information that 
reassured him about their legitimacy. 
I understand that he sought (and received) reassurances from the fraudsters. I accept they 
were likely to have been professional in manner and that being able to apparently trade risk 
free and even withdraw a small sum would have been persuasive for Mr H. But, Im afraid, I 
dont think Mr H, based on information publicly available and his own initial reluctance, 
should have engaged with the fraudsters at all.So, I think Mr H should share some responsibility for what happened and, taking all of the 
above into account, I think the offer Revolut has made to settle this complaint is a fair one.
In relation to recovery of the funds, as the money was transferred to Mr Hs account at a 
genuine cryptocurrency exchange before being sent to the fraudsters, there wasnt any 
realistic prospect of recovering Mr Hs money.
Finally, I make no award of interest because I understand that the money came from Mr Hs 
business as a directors loan and will be repaid to it. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the 
directors loan was interest bearing.
My final decision
I uphold in part this complaint and instruct Revolut Ltd to pay Mr H:
-50% of the £5,000 payment - £2,500
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman