DRN-2770015
The complaint
Mr V complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information provided by Mr V and Mr Lender our adjudicator created a short table 
showing the approved loans. I have adapted it for this decision.  
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedtermhighest 
repayment
1 07/02/2019 22/06/2019 £200 3m £132.26
2 22/06/2019 sold & repaid £200 6m £77.22
Mr V has explained the circumstances of his arrival into the UK, that he entered on a specific 
type of visa, that he had employment and he lost that job in or around July 2019. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that the checks Mr Lender had 
carried out were proportionate and did not think that Mr Lender needed to do more. Mr V 
disagreed, sent additional information and explanations as to why he disagreed and our 
adjudicators view did not alter. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. Mr V has asked me to 
look at the restriction on his visa: being able to access public funds. Mr V has not sent to us 
a copy of that visa but I have researched it and I will refer to it in my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr V 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but I do not think that this applies to 
Mr Vs circumstances as he took two loans only from Mr Lender. This was not enough to 
create a pattern. 
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr V could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint.
Mr V has sent us copies of bank statements for two accounts. He has sent to us two 
versions of his credit file. And Mr V has taken time to explain his circumstances. 
Mr Lender has sent to us details of the loans approved, the credit searches it did at the time 
(albeit brief), the information Mr V had given it at the time he applied for the loans and other 
details.
Mr V does not seem to object to the adjudicators view on loan 1. But for the avoidance of 
doubt, I consider that Mr Lender did carry out checks proportionate to the value of the loan 
applied for when Mr V was a new customer and was asking for a relatively modest sum of 
£200 over a three month term. The information he gave to Mr Lender was his income and 
his outgoings including that he had at least one outstanding other short term loan to repay. 
So, I think it was entirely reasonable following proportionate checks that Mr Lender lent what 
it did to Mr V for loan 1.
Mr V took a little longer to pay for loan 1 than was intended (four months instead of three), 
but this would not have alerted Mr Lender to a concern. It does appear that Mr Vs declared 
outgoings for other loans had increased when he applied for loan 2 but Mr Lender was 
aware of that. 
I realise that Mr V considers own arguments to be strong as to why it was Mr Lender ought 
to have known more about his financial situation and ought not to have lent loan 2, but I am 
reviewing it all from an impartial perspective. I think that to expect Mr Lender to have known of two defaults applied just days before the loan 2 approval and which may not have been 
reported to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) by 22 June 2019, is unrealistic. And it 
would have been disproportionate for Mr Lender to carry out a full financial review of Mr Vs 
circumstances for a second loan which was for a relatively modest sum and where the 
highest scheduled repayment was £77. I consider that Mr Lender carried out proportionate 
checks and I do not think it lent irresponsibly when approving loan 2. 
I have researched into the public funds restriction on Mr Vs visa (these types of visas 
usually are valid for five years) and I can see that may have restricted him from applying for 
some, but not all, benefits. I think that Mr Vs line of argument is that because of these visa 
restrictions he had to apply for credit in order to make ends meet each day. But I think Mr V 
had a choice as to which type of credit he applied for and so its largely irrelevant. I explain 
why I think that here. 
With gainful employment as Mr V had when he applied for the Mr Lender loans, then the 
restricted access to public funds would have had limited impact. The research I did told me 
that Public funds do not include benefits that are based on National Insurance contributions. 
National Insurance is paid in the same way as income tax and is based on earnings. so 
upon losing his job some benefits likely would have been available to him.
I note from Mr Vs credit file that he was on the electoral roll and had been able to obtain 
mainstream credit in the form of credit cards and bank accounts, one of which had an 
overdraft facility on it. So, Mr V had choices as to the type of credit he applied for. Having 
applied to Mr Lender I do not think that Mr Vs visa restrictions would have had any bearing 
on Mr Lenders approach to his applications. 
I do not uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman