DRN-4221602
The complaint
Miss M complains that the Co-operative Bank PLC closed a joint account which she had had 
with her former partner, without her consent.
What happened
In April 2022, the Co-op Bank received a telephone call from Miss Ms former partner 
requesting that it close down two accounts one of which was a joint account which had been 
held with Miss M. The account had had a zero balance and no activity had taken place on 
the account since October 2021. So it could be closed down straight away.
Miss M told the Co-op Bank that she hadn't consented to the account closure, and only 
became aware of it when her credit score changed. She also said that she had wanted to 
complete a zero interest balance transfer but was unable to do so because of her credit 
score. The Co-op Bank had also declined a request from her for a limit increase on her credit 
card. She explained that she had had the account for over 20 years and as it was closed 
down her oldest active account was only three years old, affecting her credit score. 
The Co-op Bank explained that it had acted on the telephone call from Miss Ms former 
partner. As the account was in joint names, either party could request its closure. It did say 
that whilst having accounts for a long time could strengthen a credit score it was very 
unlikely that this would be the sole reason for declining to increase her credit limit. She had 
in any event recently been granted a credit limit increase.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that the Co-op Bank 
had not done anything wrong by acting on her former partner's instructions alone. So it was 
able to close the account on the instruction of one party They also said that they couldn't see 
that her inability to complete the transfer or to obtain a rise in her credit limit was linked to 
the closure. They noted that she had subsequently been granted an increase in her credit 
limit.
Miss M disagreed, pointing out that her former partner had only wanted to remove their 
name from the account, not to close it down altogether. She has produced text messages 
between her and her former partner concerning this. She further said that the reason for the 
Co-op Banks initial refusal to increase the limit on her credit card was because of the 
closure of the account. For similar reasons, she says that she couldnt complete the balance 
transfer and she was therefore liable for interest and charges.
Miss M raised further complaints that the Co-op Bank failed to make adequate adjustments 
in respect of her health issues in dealing with her complaint and the consequences of what 
she felt was the Co-op Bank 's error.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has raised complaints that she feels that the Co-op Bank have let her down and 
have not taken into account her disabilities (as per the Equality Act 2010), as it did not 
provide support where needed via their specialist internal team and just left her to struggle 
financially which ended up causing her distress, depression and anxiety. This is essentially a 
complaint of discrimination which hasn't been put to the Co-op Bank. As it is a serious 
complaint I don't think it would be appropriate to deal with it here, as the Co-op Bank would 
need to provide Miss M with an answer on this specific complaint. If she wants to raise this 
complaint of discrimination as a new complaint, I would ask her to get in touch with our 
Investigator who will advise her as to how to go about doing this.
closure of the account
It is clear that the terms and conditions of the joint account meant that each party could 
operate it independently, including being able to close the account. As it had a nil balance on 
it and hadn't been used for six months at the time of the closure, I dont think there was 
anything as a consequence of that phone call that might have alerted the Co-op Bank 
adviser to take any further action before closing the account.
As for Miss Ms contention that her former partner had only intended to have his name 
removed from the account, I have considered the phone call when the accounts were 
closed. The Co-op adviser said several times that both accounts would be closed. Miss Ms 
former partner accepted this and did not push back to say that they only wanted their name 
removed from the account.
effect on credit status
Whilst I accept that having an account for more than six years can enhance somebody's 
credit status, I haven't seen evidence that the closure of this account was the sole reason 
why Miss M's request for an increase in the credit limit on her credit card was initially 
refused. Nor have I seen evidence that this was the sole reason why her balance transfer 
could not go ahead. So I think it likely that if both transactions could not go ahead there were 
other reasons for this.
If the closure of the account did affect Miss Ms credit status, given that I have found that the 
Co-op Bank acted reasonably upon Miss M's former partner's instructions, then I can't find it 
responsible for any such affect. As I've said above, if Miss M believes that the Co-op Bank 
did not take account of her disabilities then that is a different matter which she will need to 
present as a separate complaint.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman