DRN-2293182
The complaint
Mr C complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) have declined his buildings insurance 
claim for roof damage following a storm.
What happened
Mr C had a buildings insurance policy underwritten by HDI. In February 2020, following a 
period of stormy weather, he noticed some of the tiles on his roof (ridge and hip tiles) were 
displaced and his roof was letting in water. He made a claim under his policy and HDI 
appointed a loss adjuster (V) to validate it.
V inspected the roof in March 2020. According to their report, Mr C told V his roof had been 
battered during recent bad weather, causing the cement to come out and the tiles to move. 
But V concluded the tiles had moved due to gradual mortar erosion. V said:
 the defects to the roof have merely been highlighted by the weather conditions 
and not created by them 
HDI said this wasnt covered under the policy and declined the claim.
In response to Mr Cs complaint, HDI explained that his policy would cover damage caused 
solely by an insured event (such as a storm or high winds), but not damage caused by 
general weathering and age-related wear and tear issues. They said, on this occasion the 
recent high winds have merely exacerbated the pre-existing maintenance issue, and so 
they wouldnt be paying for the repairs.
HDI told us theyre not disputing that there was a storm during the period in question, but 
theyre not satisfied the roof repairs required are solely the result of a storm.
Our investigators view
Our investigator said she didnt think HDI had declined the claim unfairly. She explained that 
although Mr C is sure his roof was in good repair prior to the storms, V had found evidence 
of gradual mortar erosion. She said HDI had acted reasonably based on Vs expert 
evidence.
Mr C disagreed and took the opportunity to provide further evidence.
He showed us: evidence that hed had the ridge tiles on the roof re-pointed in February 
2014; an invoice from September 2017 for roof cleaning and inspection; an invoice for the 
Bi-annual gutter, downspout and roof clearance hed had done in October 2019; and the 
quote hed had from a roofing company for the repairs which described the works necessary 
as the direct result of storm damage/high winds.
He said the wear and tear identified by V likely occurred in the weeks between the storms 
and Vs visit. He explained that between reporting the damage and Vs visit hed tried himself 
to sand and cement the ridge tiles but that hadnt been successful. He said more rainfall 
and storms had contributed to the deterioration before V visited.
Our investigator asked HDI to review Mr Cs evidence, but they said it didnt change 
anything; they still felt the repairs needed werent the result of a storm.
When our investigator looked at the evidence, she agreed with HDI. She concluded that Vs 
expert evidence was more persuasive. She didnt think it likely the storm weather was the 
main cause of the damage and concluded it was fair for HDI to decline the claim.
Mr C didnt accept that. He said that problems with his roof would have been noted by the 
company whod cleared it in October 2019 if any had existed, so his roof mustve been in 
good condition at that point. He also argued that the roofing company whod given him a 
quote for the repairs were well qualified to assess the cause of the damage, and V werent 
sufficiently independent. He said the roof tiles would still be in place if the storms hadnt 
happened, so HDI should pay his claim.
So, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, I dont uphold this complaint. My 
reasons are broadly the same as the investigators.
The first thing to say is that this complaint isnt about whether there were storm conditions in 
the area of Mr Cs property in February 2020  everyone agrees that there were.
The dispute here is over what caused the damage to the roof. And this is because Mr Cs 
policy specifically excluded, Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes 
including deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
This type of exclusion isnt unusual in buildings insurance policies, and it isnt an 
unreasonable condition in and of itself. An insurance policy wont cover all damage a 
property might sustain. Only damage caused by one of the events listed in the policy is 
covered. So, what I need to consider is: was the storm the main cause of the damage, or did 
the weather just highlight an existing problem with Mr Cs roof?
HDIs expert, V, found that the ridge and hip tiles had moved, but concluded this was due to 
the poor condition of the bedding or mortar prior to the storm. V took a number of 
photographs of the roof which Ive carefully considered. These show several ridge and hip 
tiles which have lifted. They also show an area where the hip tiles havent lifted but the 
mortar beneath them has fallen out, leaving a significant gap. I think these pictures 
demonstrate that the roof and the mortar were in a worn state before the storm. Although the 
impact of the strong winds probably hastened its failure, I cant say the mortar would have 
stayed in place long term if the storm hadnt happened.
Mr C has sought to show that his roof was in good repair before the bad weather. 
Considering the evidence hes provided Ive no reason to doubt he had some re-pointing 
done six years ago, and that hes also had the guttering and roof cleaned on occasion. But 
that doesnt mean the mortar hadnt gradually deteriorated by the time of the storm.He also says his roofers assessment about what caused the need for repairs should be 
given more weight. But taking the quote as a whole I dont think its sufficient evidence that 
the main cause of the damage was a storm. The quote also referred to removing perished 
mortar from around the ridge tiles. And the job was described as a general over-haul of 
roof including replacing damaged/missing tiles, re-pointing ridge tiles, re-dressing and 
securing existing lead flashings with sealants, cleaning gutters of debris and vegetation, and 
applying waterproof sealant where required. I think the extent of these works suggests that, 
even without the storm, Mr Cs roof needed some significant attention.
Overall, I think HDIs reliance on Vs report to decline the claim was fair and reasonable. It 
supports the conclusion that Mr Cs roof repairs are primarily required due to the gradual 
deterioration of the mortar, and theres no expert evidence to rebut that finding.
I think the damage the roof sustained more likely than not highlighted the pre-existing 
condition of the roof rather than being caused by the storm. It follows that I dont think HDI 
have unfairly declined Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman