DRN-2239947
The complaint
Mr T complains about Lloyds Bank PLC and their failure to unblock his card correctly after it 
was blocked while he travelled around Asia.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr T travelled to Asia with his partner. Their plan was to travel for around three 
months, and had pre-booked return flights that were flexible, meaning they could be 
changed.
In December, mid-way through his break, Mr Ts card stopped working. This mean he was 
unable to use the card to pay for essentials such as food and accommodation. Mr T visited 
the local embassy to call Lloyds and ask why his card had stopped working. Lloyds said 
there was no issue with the card and suggested taking small amounts of cash as he may be 
exceeding his daily limit. Mr T tried this, but the card still didnt work. At the same time, Mr 
Ts partners card also stopped work, meaning they had no access to available funds. Mr T 
has a long-standing health condition, meaning he needed access to food. As they had no 
access to either account, Mr T and his partner decided to cut their break short and return 
home early.
When back in the UK, Mr T visited his local Lloyds branch to query the issue with his card. 
Having done so, he was made aware his card has been blocked by the fraud team. And he 
was able to speak to them and unblock the card that day. Mr T was unhappy this information 
wasnt provided when he spoke to Lloyds while he was abroad, so he raised a complaint.
Mr T thought Lloyds shouldve transferred him to the fraud team when he first called them. 
Had they done so, he felt his card wouldve been unblocked and he wouldve been able to 
continue with his travels. So, he thought Lloyds should reimburse him for the cost of 
changing his flight to return home early, as well as the expenses he incurred during that 
travel. He wanted to be compensated for the passes hed purchased that hed been unable 
to use during his time abroad. And he wanted further compensation to recognise the 7 
weeks hed lost abroad by having to return home and the emotional impact this had on him.
Lloyds responded and upheld his complaint. They felt theyd blocked Mr Ts card fairly at the 
time as they have a responsibility to ensure the safety of customers accounts. But they 
agreed Mr T shouldve been referred to the fraud team on the call he made. And he wasnt. 
But they felt it was Mr Ts own decision to return home from his travels. And they didnt think 
they should be held responsible for this decision and the financial losses Mr T felt hed 
incurred. But they recognised the stress and worry Mr T wouldve been caused, especially 
as he had a health condition which meant regular access to food was needed. So, they 
offered Mr T £500 to recognise their error and the impact this caused. Mr T was unhappy 
with this offer and he felt Lloyds should also cover the cost of the trips he booked after 
arriving home to help ease the stress he felt as well as the cost of deals hed missed out on 
without access to a card. As Mr T remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Lloyds had 
blocked Mr Ts account fairly as they had a duty to ensure his account was protected from 
any fraudulent activity. But he agreed Lloyds shouldve referred Mr T to the fraud team when 
he called them, and they didnt. So, he agreed compensation was warranted in this situation.
But he didnt think that Lloyds actions had forced Mr T to cut short his trip and return home 
early. He thought there were other ways Mr T couldve received funds to continue his trip, 
such as wireless money transfers. And he also recognised Mr Ts partner had his own 
access to money, even though that card was unable to retrieve cash as well. So, he didnt 
think it would be fair to say Lloyds should cover the losses this generated. And he thought it 
was Mr Ts decision to book additional trips once hed returned home. He didnt think Lloyds 
had forced him to do so, so again didnt think these costs should be paid by them.
So, he thought the £500 Lloyds offered was a fair one, which took into consideration the 
trouble and upset Mr T wouldve experienced when being unable to access funds in a 
foreign country, considering his pre-existing health condition. Because of this, he didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Mr T didnt agree. He didnt think he was able to use wireless transfers as family members 
didnt have the disposable funds to provide this to him. So, he maintained his only option 
was to return home and that Lloyds should be responsible for these costs. As Mr T didnt 
agree, the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr T. Ive got no doubt it 
wouldve been worrying and upsetting to lose access to the funds in his account while he 
was in a foreign country. And I appreciate how this wouldve been made worse given his 
health condition which made regular meals even more important. So, I can understand why 
in that high-pressured situation, Mr T thought returning home was the right option to take. 
But for me to say that Lloyds should cover the financial losses Mr T has spoken about, Id 
need to be satisfied Mr T had no other option but to return home and that these losses were 
unavoidable. Or that Mr T was following Lloyds specific guidance when doing so. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ts card was blocked while he was abroad. And I cant say it was 
unfair for Lloyds to take this action, as they have a responsibility to protect Mr Ts account 
against any fraudulent activity. When a card is blocked, a lender will contact the customer to 
ensure the transactions are valid. And they did so on this occasion. But, as Mr T has 
explained, he had no signal so the text and call Lloyds made werent received. So, he 
wouldnt have been aware of why his card had stopped work.
Mr T took reasonable actions to rectify this by calling Lloyds from the local embassy. And its 
at this point, I think Lloyds shouldve recognised the fraud alert on Mr Ts card and 
transferred him to the fraud team to have the block removed. And its not disputed that 
Lloyds failed to do this, instead advising Mr T to try and withdraw smaller sums. This was the 
incorrect advice, and Lloyds have recognised this themselves. Theyve offered Mr T £500 to 
recognise this error, and the inconvenience and upset this wouldve caused Mr T at the time. 
But Im aware Mr T doesnt think this offer is enough as it doesnt cover the losses he incurred or take into consideration his loss of opportunity regarding his trip and the 
experiences hed have had. So, Ive considered whether I agree with this.
Im aware Mr Ts partner, who he travelled with, also had a card with Lloyds that stopped 
working. But I cant comment on why this happened as its a separate complaint about a 
separate account. Because of this, Mr T has explained he felt he had no access to any 
money, and due to this he took the decision to cut his trip short and return home. But I dont 
think thats the case. Ive seen from Mr Ts bank statements and his own account that he 
was still able to transfer money online, out of his account. So, I think Mr T wouldve been 
able to arrange for a wireless money transfer to ensure he had enough money to last the 
immediate future. And this wouldve given Mr T the opportunity to speak to Lloyds again to 
explain the card didnt work. While I appreciate Mr Ts comments about it being unfair to 
expect family members to give him money they didnt have, I think Mr T had the ability to 
transfer money from his account to cover this. 
Because of this, I dont think its fair for me to say that Mr Ts only option was to return home 
and cut his trip short. I think this was a decision Mr T made himself. Thats not to say I dont 
understand his reasons and I do recognise the stress he wouldve been under at the time 
and why it may have seemed like the best option for him to take. But because I dont think it 
was his only option, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Lloyds should cover the cost of 
the ticket change, or the costs incurred as he travelled home.
And because of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Lloyds should reimburse Mr T 
for the cost of passes that hed paid for and intended to use for the rest of his trip. And even 
so, although Ive seen Mr Ts intended itinerary, Id be unable to say for certain that Mr T 
wouldve used these passes in the way he intended. At this service, we cant compensate 
customers for potential losses, only the losses that have occurred.
And because of the above, I dont think its fair for me to say Lloyds should cover the costs of 
the trips he booked after returning home to make up for the time he lost on his first trip. I 
think it was Mr Ts own decision to book further holidays and so his decision to finance 
these.
But I do think Lloyds failure to advise Mr T correctly had a significant impact on him at the 
time. As Mr T was abroad, he had no signal that allowed him to call them. So, he had to 
travel to the embassy to understand why he card wasnt working. I think that wouldve been 
inconvenient and took time out of a trip that clearly meant a lot to him. And he was left in a 
foreign country without immediate access to funds that would allow him to purchase 
essentials, such as food and accommodation. Although I think Mr T had options to solve this 
issue, I think in the immediate aftermath Mr T wouldve been left extremely worried and 
upset. Had Lloyds referred Mr T to the fraud department correctly, I think it would prevent Mr 
T from being as upset and worried as he was. So, I think Lloyds should compensate Mr T for 
this.
Lloyds offered Mr T £500 to recognise this upset and inconvenience. And I think this offer is 
a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve directed had no offer been made at all. So, I dont 
think Lloyds need to offer anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping for. But I hope this decision goes some 
way to explaining why the offer Lloyds made was reasonable in this situation. And I hope Mr 
T can recognise that Ive considered the points hes put to us and that Ive recognised the 
upset he felt when his trip didnt end the way hed hoped.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman