DRN-1639495
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy how The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) dealt with a claim for mis-
sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs T instructed TCG to make a claim for a potentially mis-sold 
PPI policy against Lender S. The claim was successful in May 2019 and Mr and Mrs T 
received £1,670.43 compensation from Lender S. TCG invoiced for their fee of £400.91. 
Mr and Mrs T have complained that TCG took too long to deal with the claim, and they had 
to chase for updates. Theyre also unhappy that TCG didnt receive the ID documents they 
sent, and that TCG told them the claim couldnt be progressed even though Lender S had 
made a decision to pay compensation. Because of this, they dont feel TCG should be able 
to charge their fee. Mr and Mrs T are also unhappy at how TCG chased them for their fee.
Our investigator said TCG submitted the claim as instructed, but didnt deal with Lender Ss 
request for information very well. She said the information on Lender Ss database didnt 
quite match up with the information on TCGs database, and this resulted in TCG asking for 
documentation that wasnt needed. They also didnt call Mr and Mrs T back when asked.
The investigator thought TCGs fee was due, and she didnt think TCG had done anything 
wrong by chasing for their fee. But she did think Mr and Mrs T should be compensated for 
the poor service theyd received, and recommended TCG pay them £100 to reflect this. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. They dont think TCG had the right information to be able to make 
the claim, so they dont think the fee is rightfully due. They also dont think TCG acted fairly 
by asking for payment within 28 days of the claim being successful, as it would take time for 
them to receive the compensation from Lender S. They feel the amount of correspondence 
they received chasing the fee was excessive. Theyve said they can prove excessive 
correspondence, but havent provided anything.
Mr and Mrs T also feel TCG have blatantly lied about the number of calls they have 
recorded. And given all of the time and work it took to deal with them over a 12 month 
period they feel the recommended £100 is inadequate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen from the evidence that TCG made multiple claims for Mr and Mrs T, against a 
number of different lenders. And some of the correspondence between Mr and Mrs T and 
TCG relates to more than one of these claims. My decision is concerned with this claim 
against Lender S only, so I wont be referring to anything relating to any other claim.
TCG contacted Lender S in November 2018 to see if Mrs T had been sold PPI. When 
Lender S said she had, TCG sent her a Letter of Authority and a Lender Questionnaire to 
complete. The questionnaire was originally returned incomplete, and TCG didnt receive a 
fully completed one until 29 January 2019. TCG sent the claim to Lender S the following day.
On 20 February, Lender S asked for a copy of Mrs Ts ID and her marriage certificate, 
because neither her name nor date of birth matched their records. TCG received a copy of 
the passport on 4 April, which they passed onto Lender S. TCG also received a copy of the 
marriage certificate on 1 May, but they didnt send this to Lender S. However, Lender S was 
able to complete the claim without it. The claim was successful on 7 May, but TCG werent 
aware of this when, on 10 May, they chased Mrs T for a copy of her marriage certificate.
In order to receive the compensation, Mrs T needed to complete and return an offer 
acceptance form. Because of this, Lender S didnt issue the compensation until 21 May. Ive 
seen the Terms and Conditions Mr and Mrs T agreed to when instructing TCG, and these 
say TCG will invoice You for the Fee(s) which become due at the point that either TCG or 
You are informed of an Offer of Compensation and immediately payable from the date You 
receive Your Compensation. So, while TCG would invoice for their fees once a claim had 
been successful, they wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs T to pay these until the compensation had 
been received and cleared.
Because TCG prepared and submitted the claim as instructed, and the claim was 
successful, then their fee is due. TCG charge a percentage success fee, not a fee based on 
the amount of work they do. While this means work done on unsuccessful claims would be 
done for free, where a claim was successful, TCGs fee may be more or less than the value 
of the work done. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just because 
TCGs fee is higher than the value of the work theyve done for Mr and Mrs T in this claim, it 
doesnt make the fee unjustified.
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with the service theyd received, and complained to TCG about 
this. TCG have said their account was locked from the firms Collection Process between 
16 May and 21 October 2019, and again from 7 November 2019. Because of this TCG say 
their collection team only sent Mr and Mrs T one email and one letter relating to this invoice.
Mr and Mrs T say they received an excessive amount of correspondence chasing for the fee. 
But I havent seen this. And Mr and Mrs T were given the opportunity to provide this as part 
of the evidence to be considered by the investigator. They couldve also provided this as part 
of their comments on the investigators view. I can only base my view on the evidence I have 
available to me.
TCGs case notes show they invoiced Mr and Mrs T for this fee on 15 May 2019, and they 
first chased for this on 6 November. They also spoke to Mr T about this on the same day. 
Ive not seen any other evidence that TCG chased for this specific fee. So I cant agree TCG 
shouldnt have invoiced for the fee when they did, or that they unreasonably chased for the 
fee to be paid.But TCG didnt pass on the marriage certificate to Lender S, and they chased Mr and Mrs T 
for this both after theyd received it and after Lender S had decided to settle the claim 
without it. I agree this wouldve caused Mr and Mrs T some concern that the marriage 
certificate had been lost and confused them about what was happening with the claim.
And, while I dont think TCG delayed the claim in any way, Ive seen that Mr and Mrs T 
asked TCG to contact them about their claims and this didnt happen. So I agree with the 
investigator that TCG should compensate Mr and Mrs T for the worry, confusion and 
frustration they caused. The £100 recommended by the investigator is in line with what we 
would usually recommend for this level of service, and I see no compelling reason to change 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. The Claims Guys 
Limited must pay Mr and Mrs T £100 to reflect the level of service they provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman