DRN-3125972
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, maintained an out-of-
date telephone number on his account that resulted in account information being sent to his 
ex-wife.
What happened
Mr H has a Barclays credit account. He discovered that his ex-wifes telephone number was 
still listed on his account, even though he had been divorced for some time. This meant that 
account information was sent to Mr Hs ex-wife following the divorce. Mr H wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Hs complaint. It noted that Mr H had never updated the telephone 
number listed on his account. However, it accepted that it could have been more proactive at 
confirming the telephone number with Mr H at times that he had changed his address, and 
so it amended the telephone number, apologised to Mr H, and made a payment of £50 to Mr 
H as compensation for what had taken place. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the response to Mr Hs 
complaint already issued by Barclays represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what 
had happened, and so they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been upsetting for Mr H to have realised that the 
telephone number on his account remained that of his ex-wife and that this meant that she 
had been receiving account information sent to that number by Barclays.
In his complaint correspondence with Barclays, Mr H explained that his ex-wife used to 
manage his finances, which was why hed listed her number on his account. But Mr H feels 
that Barclays should have checked the ongoing validity of the number so that Mr H was 
prompted to update the number at an earlier time. 
I can appreciate Mr Hs point here  to a degree. Ultimately though, I feel that it was Mr Hs 
responsibility, as the account holder, to have ensured that the contact details on his account 
were updated to what he wanted or required and to have removed his ex-wifes number from 
the account.
In their response to Mr Hs complaint, Barclays stated that it felt that it could have been more 
proactive in asking Mr H to confirm that the telephone number listed on the account 
remained correct, and they apologised to Mr H for this and made a payment of £50 to Mr H 
by way of compensation.
Barclays response to Mr Hs complaint here feels generous to me, and as such Im satisfied 
that Barclays response already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint 
such that I wont be instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.
Its my understanding that Mr H has approached Barclays and asked for confirmation of the 
number of times that Barclays sent account information to his ex-wifes telephone number, 
and that Mr H has raised a subject access request regarding this point. I would encourage 
Barclays to provide this information to Mr H if possible, and if it isnt, to explain to Mr H why 
this is the case.
Having conducted my review of this complaint I find it very difficult to conclude that Barclays 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H here, and it follows from this that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting here, but I trust that he will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman