DRN-3275265
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mrs F complained to TSB about charges applied to her bank account and that her overdraft 
increases between 2010 and 2013 were unaffordable. TSB said Mrs F had never made it 
aware she was in financial difficulty and that she had managed her account within the limit 
for 10 years although it did waive some charges in 2016. 
Following bringing her complaint to this service TSB agreed to refund all fees and charges 
that Mrs F incurred on her overdraft from September 2017 onwards and amend her credit file 
to reflect the date of the refund.
Mrs F didnt wish to accept this offer and has asked for an ombudsman decision.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mrs F raised her complaint in May 2021 in relation to her overdraft limit and charges applied 
to her account dating back to 2010. Six years before she raised her complaint is May 2015. 
And as Mrs F wouldve known what her overdraft limit was and the charges for use of the 
overdraft facility wouldve been notified to Mrs F at the time they were being applied, I think 
she ought to have known enough to decide whether they were unfair or causing financial 
difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when Ms R ought to be reasonably aware 
she had reason to complaint provides her with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I 
will only be looking at the management of her overdraft and charges applied from May 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what TSB has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs F is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case my understanding is Mrs F managed her overdraft within its limits and 
brought her account into credit in 2017. But in September of that year Mrs F went over her 
limit into unarranged overdraft and it is from this point TSB has agreed to refund all charges. 
All the interest, fees and charges TSB shouldnt have added will be removed from what Mrs 
F now needs to pay. So what Mrs F is left with to repay are the funds which she used and 
benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left her with a debt 
that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
So Im satisfied that what TSB has already agreed to do to put things right for Mrs F is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything 
more. As this is the case, its up to Mrs F to decide whether she wishes to accept TSBs 
offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what TSB Bank plc has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Mrs F is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman