DRN-4119527
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV stopped making
payments to her following a successful claim on a group income protection insurance policy
she had the benefit of.
What happened
Miss G had the benefit of an income protection insurance through her employer (the policy).
Subject to the remaining terms, the policy can pay out a monthly benefit if Miss G was
unable to work due to illness after the waiting period.
Several years ago, Miss G became absent from work due to anxiety and depression. A claim
was made on the policy which was accepted by CIGNA. It ended up paying the monthly
benefit to Miss G until early 2021 when it concluded that Miss G had been partially fit to work
at 50% incapacity since October 2020.
CIGNA then took the decision to terminate the claim in its entirety in early 2022. It deemed
that Miss G was no longer incapacitated and should be able to return to work on a phased
basis and with reasonable adjustments.
Miss G didnt think that was fair, so she complained to our service. Our investigator looked
into what happened and upheld her complaint. He recommended CIGNA reinstate the claim
and pay Miss G the monthly benefit payments shed missed out on (plus simple interest at
8% on each backdated payment). He also recommended CIGNA pay £300 compensation for
distress and inconvenience.
CIGNA didnt agree. So, Miss Gs complaint was passed to me to determine. I issued my 
provisional decision in April 2023 explaining, in more detail, why I was intending to uphold 
Miss Gs complaint - an extract of which appears below. 
..
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle claims promptly and
fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
When making a claim, its for Miss G to demonstrate that she met the definition of incapacity,
and she was able to do that. As CIGNA reduced the monthly benefit - and thereafter
terminated the claim - its for it to show that Miss G no longer met the definition of incapacity,
based on medical evidence. Its not for Miss G to show that she continued to do so.
The policy terms do allow for CIGNA to review the claim during the period of incapacity.
Relevant to this complaint, the policy says:
After a two (2) years of period continued Working Incapacity, a formal review will be
undertaken by the Insurer. If the Insured Person is then still totally or partially unable
to carry out his/her own occupation within [the policyholder], is not carrying out
another occupation within [the policyholder] for which he or she might [sic] is
reasonably fit by reason of education, training or experience, while protecting the
social status, the benefits will continue to be paid on the basis of the above until a
next review, with a maximum duration until the end of the Insureds Persons contract
with [the policyholder].
And:
Insured Persons who (after the one hundred thirty (130) working day waiting period)
are benefiting from the monthly lump sum and whose condition is improving to such
an extent that they are capable of partially resuming work, with medical consent, may
continue to receive an allowance. The amount of this allowance will however be
reduced, and will be calculated by multiplying the (total monthly) sum insured by the
percentage of the (remaining) incapacity.
In early 2021, CIGNA evaluated Miss G to be partially fit to work (at 50% incapacity) and
reduced the monthly benefit by 50% with effect of April 2021.
It also confirmed in November 2021 that its medical board were of the medical opinion that
Miss G should be able to return to work on a phased return and would be ceasing payment
in early 2022. It said there was no evidence that this would negatively impact Miss Gs
mental health. And concluded that the main challenge to Miss G returning to work was due
to her being off work for several years and living abroad for a lot of this time. As such, it
didnt think Miss Gs claim could be medically justified any longer.
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering
whether CIGNA reasonably reduced the monthly benefit, and thereafter terminated Miss Gs
claim, when it did. Having done so, I dont think it has acted fairly or reasonably for the
reasons set out below.
Miss Gs consultant psychiatrist reported in 2019 that there had been no significant 
change in her condition (after several years), and she continued to struggle with low 
mood and anxiety. It was unlikely, in their view, that Miss G would return to her 
previous employment as her current levels of anxiety preclude a return to work, quite 
apart from the geographical constraints. She felt anxious at the prospect of any 
voluntary work.
Miss Gs psychologists report dated September 2020 details her diagnoses to be 
moderate/severe depression with anxiety, she continued to be prescribed 
antidepressants, shed fully engaged with therapy and had eight therapy sessions 
that year to date - impacted by Covid-19 lockdowns in 2020. Miss Gs clinical 
complaints are reflected to be: depression, anxiety, stress, lack of motivation and 
loss of self-confidence, low self-esteem and poor sleep.
CIGNA arranged a report from a psychiatrist for early 2021 (the psychiatrist). The 
report concludes that in view of the intensity and characteristics of the neuropsychic 
disorders displayed by the person concerned, the current temporary working 
incapacity benefit does not appear to be justified. Indeed, the person concerned 
could certainly resume a professional capacity at 50%. The report seems to be 
based on questions asked of Miss G during a short virtual meeting, where there was 
a language barrier and interpreter present. The report doesnt identify which of Miss 
Gs medical records were considered (if any) or whether the psychiatrist had 
considered Miss Gs job description, or any other job descriptions available within the policyholder or the policy terms around incapacity. Theres also nothing to explain 
why a percentage of 50% was appropriate.
Looking at correspondence between Miss G and CIGNAs clinical claims specialist 
(and qualified psychotherapist)  the claims specialist - in April 2021, Im satisfied 
CIGNA said it didnt follow some of the conclusions of the psychiatrist as the medical 
opinions expressed in their report might not be reliable based on symptoms the 
claims specialist had witnessed. It was accepted that Miss G did exhibit symptoms 
indicative of moderate depression and moderate anxiety  whereas the psychiatrist 
had described these as mild. However, the claims specialist did agree  based on 
their own assessment - that Miss G should be able to return to work on a part time 
basis. This was based on an assessment by phone and the claims specialist advised 
that Miss G was able to carry out activities of daily living most of the time but as there 
are days when her mood is much worse, she refrained from concluding that she was 
fully fit to return to work. However, again, Ive seen nothing to show why a 
percentage of 50% was used. And although Miss G was able to manage aspects of 
everyday living, it doesnt automatically follow that she was able to work given her 
symptoms. In the circumstances of this particular case, Ive placed more weight on 
the opinions of Miss Gs own psychologist, whod she been having therapy with over 
a number of years and advised that she wasnt fit to work. Thats consistent with 
other medical evidence Ive referred to below.
The psychiatrists report is also inconsistent with another report from a medical 
practitioner with medicolegal experience arranged by CIGNA in October 2020 (the 
medical practitioner)  so less than three months before the psychiatrists report  
which does set out some medical history and confirm the medical records reviewed. 
The report also sets out Miss Gs reported symptoms and concludes: in view of the 
length of the ailment and of the incapacity for work, a fundamental change in the 
situation should no longer be expected
I know theres an extract from a report from the medical practitioner referred to in an 
email from CIGNA to Miss G dated 2 February 2021 where its reflected that the 
medical practitioner agrees with the psychiatrists conclusions in the report dated 
January 2021 in terms of the diagnosis and incapacity for work being assessed at 
50% at that stage. However, thats based on a report which CIGNA subsequently 
accepted wouldnt be relied upon. Further, the medical practitioners opinion differs 
from their own opinion only months before without any explanation as to why theyve 
changed their mind. So, Ive placed less weight on the extract from February 2021.
So, overall, Im intending to find that the decision taken to reduce the monthly benefit 
by 50% with effect of April 2021 isnt fair and reasonable based on the totality of the 
medical evidence up to that point.
Prior to the decision taken by CIGNA to terminate the claim in its entirety it did 
request further information from Miss Gs psychologist. Her answer reflects that shed 
been working with Miss G since 2012, the number of sessions depended on Miss Gs 
mental state; they may connect twice in one week or maybe once a month. And that 
she suffers with persistent depression and this has a knock-on effect on her levels of 
anxiety, on her lack of self-confidence, and on her self-belief. These problems are all 
barriers to a return to work. Currently I do not consider her psychologically strong 
enough to engage in a search for work, nor a return to work.
Thats consistent with a report from an occupational health physician dated August 
2021 which reflects that they took time to understand the nature of the role Miss G was doing before she was unable to work due to illness to understand the general 
nature of work she might be required to undertake is she was successful in a job 
search process. It concludes that the clinical assessment they carried out indicated 
how very distressed Miss G was. And objective assessment using validated 
depression and anxiety questionnaires confirmed symptoms to be in the severe 
range, this being consistent with her self-report and also in line with my clinical 
observations during the consultation. It concludes that Miss G wasnt fit to engage 
in any form of job search activity and wouldnt be fit to undertake any work even if 
she were to be successful. Her level of functioning is currently so reduced, even on 
her better days, she would not be able to cope with the challenge of day-to work and 
perform in any way that would be acceptable.
In support of the decision to terminate the claim, CIGNAs doctor said at the time that 
Miss G was able to manage a complex life and had very sporadic input from a 
therapist. And that she should be able to return to work on a phased basis with 
adjustments. However, because of the brevity of their email its not clear what 
medical evidence that doctor had seen before making these conclusions. I dont think 
the medical evidence from Miss Gs psychologist (particularly from 2020 and 2021), 
the occupational health physician and the medical practitioners report from October 
2020 supports that view.
Considering the totality of the medical evidence, I dont think its fair and reasonable 
for CIGNA to conclude that the reasons for not returning to work were unconnected 
to her medical condition such as living abroad or a concern about being made 
redundant  and wouldnt cause an impact of her mental health.
I know when replying to Miss Cs concerns towards the end of November 2021, 
CIGNA said that Miss Gs psychologists observations werent sufficient, and no 
psychometric tests had been carried out since 2014. But I dont think the absence of 
psychometric tests is determinative and there is other medical evidence available in 
this case which I dont think CIGNA placed sufficient weight on. I dont think its been 
fairly and reasonably able to establish that its acted reasonably when reducing the 
monthly benefit and terminating the claim.
Distress and inconvenience
From reading the correspondence passing between Miss G and CIGNA, Im satisfied shes
been put to significant and unnecessary inconvenience having to write to CIGNA multiple
times setting out why her monthly benefit shouldnt be reduced and terminated. From
reading the correspondence, I accept that she was also upset and frustrated at the way she
was being treated. Im satisfied that she wouldve been worried about losing the monthly
benefit and this source of income under the policy whilst she was too ill to work. I propose
that CIGNA pay her £500 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused
her.
Putting things right
I intend to direct CIGNA to do the following:
reinstate the claim and continue to pay the monthly benefit in line with the terms of 
the policy;
pay the full benefit for the benefit of Miss G for the period of time it reduced the 
benefit by 50% (less the amounts it paid during this period). It should also pay directly to Miss G simple interest at 8% per annum on the difference between what 
Miss G did receive during that period and what she ought to have received.
pay the monthly benefit for the benefit of Miss G from the date the claim was 
terminated to the date on which its reinstated. It should also pay simple interest 
directly to Miss G in respect of the backdated payments at the rate of 8% per annum, 
from the date each monthly benefit was due to the date of settlement.
pay Miss G £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience CIGNA caused 
her by having the benefit reduced and thereafter terminated.
I also intend to direct CIGNA to provide Miss G with a written breakdown of all interest
calculations set out above within 21 days from the date on which it makes payment to her.
And if CIGNA considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
any interest paid, it should tell Miss G how much its taken off. It should also give her a
certificate showing this if she asks for one. That way Miss G can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.

I invited both parties to provide me with any comments in response to my provisional 
decision. CIGNA said it had no further submissions to make but highlighted some extracts of 
medical reports it had previously provided. Miss G raised some further points around the 
internal appeal process, but she said she accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When provisionally deciding this complaint, Id considered the medical reports referred to me 
by CIGNA in response to my provisional decision. Id also considered the points Miss G has 
summarised when replying to my provisional decision. 
In the absence of any further and new substantive information, Im satisfied that theres no 
reason for me to depart from my provisional decision (an extract of which appears above 
and forms part of my final decision). So, I uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Putting things right
I direct CIGNA to do the following:
reinstate the claim and continue to pay the monthly benefit in line with the terms of 
the policy;
pay the full benefit for the benefit of Miss G for the period of time it reduced the 
benefit by 50% (less the amounts it paid during this period). It should also pay 
directly to Miss G simple interest at 8% per annum on the difference between what 
Miss G did receive during that period and what she ought to have received.
pay the monthly benefit for the benefit of Miss G from the date the claim was 
terminated to the date on which its reinstated. It should also pay simple interest 
directly to Miss G in respect of the backdated payments at the rate of 8% per annum, 
from the date each monthly benefit was due to the date of settlement.pay Miss G £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience CIGNA caused 
her by having the benefit reduced and thereafter terminated.
I also direct CIGNA to provide Miss G with a written breakdown of all interest calculations set 
out above within 21 days from the date on which it makes payment to her. And if CIGNA 
considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest 
paid, it should tell Miss G how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one. That way Miss G can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Gs complaint and direct CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to 
put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman