DRN-4349015
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank Plc treated him unfairly when it didnt apply a gambling block
to his account as requested.
What happened
Mr B held a current account with TSB. He says that the bank was aware that he suffered
from a gambling addiction, but it didnt have the facility to block gambling transactions from
his account initially so he self-managed this. However, TSBs gambling block became
available to its customers in February 2023.
Mr B told us:
He tried to apply a gambling block to his account but due to a system issue, his debit 
card wasnt showing on his TSB profile, so he wasnt able to apply this himself like 
other TSB customers could.
As he couldnt apply the block, he called TSB to apply the block to his account 
instead but the adviser he spoke to didnt know how to do this. The bank said there 
may be an issue as he held several accounts, so it said it would merge his account 
profiles together within around nine days and this should then resolve the issue.
After eleven days, he checked his account, and he still couldnt apply the block 
himself. So, he attempted to contact TSB to apply this on his behalf, but he couldnt 
speak to someone and subsequently spent £1,000 on gambling sites in one day.
Due to spending the £1,000 on gambling, hes now in a difficult financial position as 
he doesnt have any money available as hes used all his available credit. This has 
affected his credit score he and cant get additional finance, which is causing him 
distress.
TSB has admitted it has made an error and paid him compensation, but this isnt 
enough as hes lost a further £800 and the bank should have done more to help him. 
TSB still hasnt been able to explain why his card wasnt showing on his profile and 
its customer service has been poor as no-one is taking responsibility for his 
complaint or responding to him when they say they will.
TSB told us:
It had apologised to Mr B for giving incorrect information and because he hadnt been 
able to apply the gambling block when hed wanted to. It had also paid him a total of 
£400 compensation for the inconvenience caused and offered to refund any 
expenses he had incurred as a result of this issue which it thought was enough to put 
things right.
The issue with Mr B not being able to apply the gambling block through his banking 
app was a known issue, and it didnt have a date to resolve this. Even after merging 
the different profiles Mr B held with the bank, there was no guarantee this would 
resolve the issues he was experiencing. So, it didnt agree Mr B had been told this 
would be resolved in a week.
Mr B had still been able to apply the block over the phone and in branch as needed 
and had done so on previous occasions. Going forward Mr B was also able to use 
webchat to apply the block as needed. However, there was no guarantee the block 
would prevent all gambling transactions which Mr B was aware of.
Mr B is aware of the issue with the account profiles but has continued to open new 
accounts online and then raise complaints that the profiles arent merged, despite 
being told there isnt a timeframe to resolve this issue.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think that TSB had
treated Mr B fairly as it hadnt merged his account profiles in the timescale agreed and had
incorrectly told Mr B to apply the gambling block himself when he wasnt able to do so. So
she thought TSB should increase the compensation for the inconvenience to £600. She also
said that as Mr B had spent the £1,000 in one day, she was persuaded that if hed been able
to apply the gambling block as hed wanted to, he wouldnt have spent this money. So she
thought TSB should refund the £1,000 in addition to the £600 compensation shed already
recommended.
Mr B agreed with the recommendation. TSB didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to
review the complaint. It said it had already paid £400 compensation in total for the
inconvenience which it thought was fair and that Mr B could benefit from the gambling block,
but he was aware there were limitations on how he could apply it. TSB also said Mr B had
added and removed the gambling block on numerous occasions and had waited the 48
hours for the block to be removed before gambling.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2023. I said the following: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. I know Mr B will be disappointed with 
my decision, but Ill explain how Ive reached this. Firstly, I would like to thank Mr B 
for explaining his addiction and the impact that has had on him. Mr B has provided 
lots of information and Ive taken everything into account, if I dont directly reference 
something in my decision it is not because I havent considered it. But Ive focused 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Mr B says that because his banking app wasnt working correctly, he couldnt apply a
gambling block when hed wanted to. So he feels TSB are at least partly responsible 
for his £1,000 gambling loss - but I dont agree. I say this because Mr B has told us 
that he was aware he wasnt able to apply the gambling block through the app due to 
issues linking his accounts, and that hed previously been using the other methods 
offered by the bank to self-manage his gambling.
Mr B told us that when hed felt the urge to gamble and therefore apply the block, 
both his local branch and the banks telephone lines were closed so he wasnt able to 
take this action as the bank had suggested. However, given Mr B had previously 
been using the alternative methods prior to the launch of the app, I think he was 
reasonably aware of the limitations of when they were available. And given that the 
gambling block application via the banking app had only been in place a matter of 
weeks when Mr B said hed wanted to use it, and that he was aware it wasnt an option for him, I dont think its fair to hold TSB responsible for the losses he incurred 
on this occasion.
I also think its worth noting here that although Mr B said hed had the urge to gamble 
on the specific day in question, he already taken steps a few days beforehand to 
remove the block from his account, which took 48 hours to take effect. So I think its 
reasonable to believe that Mr B could have reapplied the block within this period 
before hed gambled as I think he was reasonably aware - from applying this on 
previous occasions  that this would take effect immediately. So I dont think its 
reasonable to hold the bank responsible for Mr Bs loss when he was already aware 
that he couldnt apply the block in this way and had made a conscious decision to 
remove the block and wait for the required timeframe to pass so he could gamble 
again.
I acknowledge that its frustrating for Mr B that he doesnt have all the options 
available to TSBs customers to apply the gambling block. However, the bank has 
apologised for this issue and has now also made it possible for the block to also be 
applied through the webchat facility  which has longer hours and is relatively easy to 
access in comparison. And both parties have evidenced that Mr B is making use of 
this method of contact. So I think its reasonable to think that until TSB resolves the 
app issue, that Mr B would be able to use this alternative method to apply the block 
when he feels he needs to.
Its not disputed by either party that Mr B was given incorrect information and caused
inconvenience because his accounts werent merged within the timescale he says he 
was told, and he wasnt able to apply the gambling block via the app when he wanted 
to. However, Ive seen that TSB has apologised, and paid him a total of £400 
compensation between February and April 2023 for the inconvenience caused. So I 
think the bank has done enough to put things right and I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
I invited Mr B and TSB to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. TSB accepted the decision and had nothing further 
to add. Mr B didnt agree. In summary he said:
He was told by the bank he needed to remove the block to make a transfer to his 
investment ISA held with a third-party as this was classed as gambling.
The account merger has nothing to do with the gambling block, the bank doesnt 
know the reason for this and didnt resolve it. The issue was because he couldnt 
manage his cards and apply the block.
TSB had discriminated against him because the block wasnt working for him, but it 
wasnt affecting other customers. The bank also hadnt offered any solution, despite 
being aware of the issues he was experiencing, and had left him vulnerable due to 
the limited hours he could apply the gambling block. 
Hed closed his account with TSB so he could then reopen a new one which the 
block could be applied on. However, the bank now wont reopen his account which is 
unfair, and he believes is because of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr B also says that the account merger had nothing to do with the gambling block, that TSB 
hasnt attempted to resolve the issue and its customer service has been poor. He feels that 
these points havent been considered in my provisional decision - but Id like to reassure him 
that isnt the case. I have taken into consideration all the evidence and comments from both 
parties, and the service provided by TSB. So its clear to all parties, Ive seen that TSB paid 
£400 compensation on the following dates and the customer service and respective 
complaints these related to were reviewed as part of the decision:
21 February 2023 - £50 compensation as Mr B wanted to apply the gambling block 
and couldnt do so as his profiles hadnt been merged within the timescales he said 
he was given.
1 March 2023 - £100 compensation as Mr B still couldnt apply the gambling block as 
his profiles hadnt been merged and hed been given incorrect information by an 
agent and had to call back. 
30 March 2023 - £200 compensation as his profile issue still hadnt been resolved 
since hed raised the complaint on 21 February. 
18 April 2023 - £50 compensation as the issues with the profile merger had still not 
been resolved after Mr B had opened another account online.
Both Mr B and TSB have repeatedly told this service since the outset that the block couldnt 
be applied because the app wasnt working, and that Mr B was also experiencing issues due 
to the various different profiles. Ive also seen that the bank said it wasnt clear if merging the 
profiles would resolve Mr Bs issues with the app and that it was still investigating but 
couldnt provide him with a timescale for that resolution. I acknowledged that this had been 
inconvenient to Mr B, but based on what Id seen, I thought the bank had done enough to put 
things right by apologising and paying him compensation for the inconvenience caused.
I acknowledge Mr B told us that he feels discriminated against by TSB because he cant 
apply the gambling block through the app whilst other customers can. However, I havent 
seen anything in the evidence from either party to suggest thats the case. The issue Mr B is 
experiencing, appears to simply be an issue with TSBs banking app for certain customers, 
which the bank has acknowledged and apologised for. 
Mr B still has option to apply the gambling block by calling the bank or visiting his local 
branch  in the same way that hed done prior to this option being offered by the bank on its 
app. And as I noted in my provisional decision, the gambling block can now also be applied 
through TSBs webchat function which has more availability for those customers who need 
support. So based on what Ive seen, I think TSB has acted reasonably by putting things in 
place to mitigate the impact on Mr B and its other customers who dont currently have the 
gambling block functionality through their banking app.  
Mr B also says that he was told by TSB to remove the gambling block so he could make a 
transfer to his investment ISA, but I havent seen any evidence thats the case. Mr B did 
provide evidence of a webchat between himself and TSB where this was discussed, 
however in this conversation, Mr B told the bank he wasnt sure if the block would have an 
effect on his ability to make the transfer, so hed made the decision to take it off. Ive also 
seen that this conversation took place in mid-April 2023  after hed already made the 
gambling transactions that hes complained about. 
I also havent seen any evidence from either party that TSB told Mr B to take this action so 
he could make the payment. The bank told us that it has looked for any calls that took place 
from February onwards on the dates Mr B made his ISA investment  which is the criteria he 
provided  but there is no evidence of any contact with the bank throughout this period. I 
also think its reasonable to believe that even if Mr B had been told by the bank that he needed to this, he could have requested that the bank reapply the block immediately after 
the payment had been made. So I cant reasonably hold the bank responsible for Mr Bs 
actions.
Mr B told us that hed closed his account with TSB and attempted to open a new one to 
resolve the issue with the app, but the bank had declined his new account application. I can 
see that Mr B has raised this as a new complaint with the bank, so it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to address this as part of this decision. 
As per my provisional decision, I dont think its fair to hold TSB responsible because Mr B 
chose to remove the gambling block that he had in place on his account, when he was 
aware there were limitations on when hed be able to reapply this. I understand this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, but I think TSB has done enough to put things right, so I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman