DRN-3945975
The complaint
Mr C complains that Demirtas Finance Ltd (DFL) failed to pursue his claim that hed been 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In April 2019, Mr C signed letters of authority (LoA) that instructed DFL to act on his behalf to 
find out whether hed been mis-sold PPI. Mr C said DFL told him theyd submitted the LoAs 
to his lenders in June 2019. But despite several requests for updates Mr C said he never 
found out whether he was entitled to any compensation. And after July 2020 DFL hadnt 
provided any updates about his claims. He complained to DFL.
DFL said theyd submitted a request for information for Mr C to two of his lenders, Ill call S 
and Y. But due to the high volume of claims that had been received, followed by the 
pandemic there had been delays in responses form the lenders about any claims. DFL said 
theyd kept Mr C updated and had continued to chase both lenders for a response to their 
request for information. DFL said they couldnt escalate Mr Cs complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service until theyd confirmed that Mr C had PPI and the lender had 
investigated his claim. DFL also said in April 2021 theyd asked Mr C to complete new LoAs 
but he only provided online signatures which wouldnt be accepted by his lenders. And they 
didnt get the signed paper LoA until February 2022. 
Mr C wasnt happy with DFLs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said DFL hadnt done enough to find out from Mr Cs lenders whether hed 
PPI. And there had been delays and poor service. He said DFL should pay Mr C £250 for 
the loss of opportunity of getting his mis-sold PPI claims considered.
Neither party agreed, Mr C said any PPI compensation would have probably been more than 
£250. And DFL said they had done everything they could to get the lenders to provide 
information about whether Mr C had PPI or not. So, the complaint has been referred for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know or speculate whether Mr C would have had successful mis-sold PPI claims
with S and/or Y as there are several factors that lenders would have needed to consider. DFL 
feel strongly that they submitted Mr Cs mis-sold PPI claims to his lenders and that they cant be 
held responsible for the lenders failure in responding to their requests. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI
claims to be made. For some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for   
mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI 
complaint. But for others a formal complaint with supporting information was required. Any claim 
received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless 
there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
DFL said they submitted Mr Cs LoA in June 2019 to both his lenders. DFL said the submission 
to S  and Y was sent on a bulk spreadsheet as was the agreed process. DFL hasnt shown 
they received any acknowledgement from either lender that their request for information was 
received. But I can see there was an error with the spreadsheet about the date format.
DFL said they submitted Mr Cs LoAs to both lenders mid-June 2019. From the information they 
sent to Mr C:
What happens after we receive your signed LOAs:
1. We submit a legal information request to each brand to identify your claims
2. Once we commence the claims process the brands will have up to 8 weeks to investigate and 
provide their decisions
3. If they uphold the claim then you will receive your compensation, if they reject the claim then 
we will escalate the matter to the financial courts on your behalf free of charge
So, from this information Mr C would have expected a response no later than the first week of  
August 2019. As he hadnt heard anything, he asked DFL for an update in June, July and August 
2019. I can see that DFL responded in August 2019 explaining about delays in the process due 
to the volume of claims received as the deadline for making such claims was reached. Mr C 
asked for updates again in November and December 2019, And again was told about the delays 
due to the volume of claims. I havent seen any further updates until Mr C again asked for one in 
July 2020. DFL said they were waiting the final response from the lender and that the lender 
would also send the final response direct to Mr C. They said these had been delayed due to the 
pandemic.
I can see that DFL asked both lenders for an update on the deadline date  29 August 2019. But 
I havent seen any response or acknowledgement from the lenders to DFL. And it wasnt until 
July 2020, that DFL again asked the lenders for an update. The only response Ive seen from 
either lender was from S in April 2021 when they told DFL that they didnt have any evidence of 
their submission. And S asked for the original letter and an up to date signed LoA to be sent to 
them so that they could consider whether they could look into a mis-sold PPI complaint for Mr C.  
I havent seen any response from Y.
Mr C was living overseas and signed the LoA electronically several times. DFL has said that the 
lenders would only accept a wet signature and not a digital one and that they didnt get the 
signed paper copy of the LoA until February 2022. While I can see DFL asked Mr C to  sign a 
new LoA I havent seen any evidence that DFL sent the original LoA to S or Y, or a copy of 
the bulk spreadsheet they said theyd sent to show the lenders that a complaint had been 
submitted prior to the August 2019 deadline. Neither can I see they took any steps to update 
either S or Y about the difficulties in getting an updated paper LoA to them.
As outlined above any claim received after the August 2019 wouldnt be accepted unless there 
were exceptional circumstances for doing so. And S has said they couldnt locate the details 
DFL said theyd sent to them. 
I can see that DFL in chasing Mr Cs claim with both lenders asked for them to auto convert the 
claims based on their submissions. But again, as outlined above not all lenders would accept a 
LoA as a claim for mis-sold PPI and required further supporting information. I havent seen any 
evidence that either lender acknowledged or responded to DFL until after they asked for an 
update in July 2020 nearly 12 months after the deadline for making such claims had passed. And 
I think DFLs request to the business in July 2020 was only made after Mr C asked for an update.
So, DFL havent persuaded me that that they carried out Mr Cs instructions to pursue his 
mis sold PPI claim with his lenders. One lender said theyd not received any submission and the other lender never responded. I think DFL could have provided evidence of the 
submission in April 2021 to S to show theyd sent it before the August 2019 deadline, but 
they didnt. And I think this has meant Mr Cs lost the opportunity for a mis-sold PPI claim to 
be fully investigated as its now over three years since the deadline for making these claims 
has passed.  
In handling Mr Cs claim I would expect DFL to adhere to the Claims Management Conduct of 
Business sourcebook (CMCOB) that provides them with guidance.
CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least once 
every six months, in a durable medium.
And DFLs terms and conditions say:
KEEPING YOU INFORMED
During the time we are investigating your claim we will provide regular updates to you via email 
as and when your claim progresses, as well as maintaining regular contact with you via letters, 
telephone calls and emails.
CMCOB 6.1.13 says:
If a customers claim is not successful, the firm must advise the customer of the available 
methods by which the customer may continue to pursue their claim.
From the records Ive seen it was only after Mr C asked for an update that DFL responded. I can 
also see that in late July 2020 it had been more than six months from their previous response to 
an update request from him. And I havent seen any evidence of them advising Mr C that as the 
lenders werent responding he could look to pursue his claim with his lenders direct.
Putting things right
I cant know whether Mr C would have received any compensation for mis-sold PPI so I cant 
ask DFL to compensate him for this. But I do think Mr C has missed the opportunity for a 
mis-sold PPI claim to be considered. And I can understand his frustration in not being kept 
updated about what was happening with his claim. So, I think DFL should compensate Mr C 
for loss of opportunity and poor service and pay him £250 for this.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Demirtas Finance Ltd to compensate Mr C for
the distress and inconvenience caused by paying him  £250 for loss of opportunity and poor 
service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman