DRN-3161279
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about the communication he received from Computershare Investor 
Services Plc (referred to as Computershare or the business) during his participation in the 
International Airlines Group (IAG) capital increase. 
 
In summary, he says:
Computershare didnt send him a confirmation email after he took part in the 
corporate action. 
He wasnt made aware of the oversubscription. 
Computer share refunded the price difference to the account it had on file rather than 
the account he paid from. 
Computershare has breached regulation and failed to provide a reasonable service.
What happened
On 15 September 2020, Mr G applied for 312 shares of his entitlement and 1000 excess 
shares. Computershare confirmed that he received 346 shares which included 34 shares 
from the over subscription which was scaled back. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Computershare confirmed that the application was completed through a third-party 
website (built by a third-party business), so Computershare wasnt in a position to 
confirm if the email was sent. 
The shareholder guide also confirms this, and states that applications could only be 
made via the website:
oCDI Holders in the Corporate Sponsored Nominee Service can only elect to 
subscribe or sell Subscription Rights online at www.iagcapitalincrease.co.uk 
from 9.00
However, any error made whilst processing the application would lie with 
Computershare, because the company running the website is a subsidiary of it. 
Computershare also confirmed that if Mr G didnt receive a confirmation email, thats 
because the application wasnt successful. But whilst it wouldve been frustrating not 
to have received the email, she cant see that its impacted Mr Gs share allocation. 
Mr G is unhappy that he wasnt told about the oversubscription until he logged into 
his account. Despite what Mr G says, Computershare wasnt obliged to immediately 
notify him  that the event was oversubscribed  and it didnt affect his share 
allocation. 
Because the capital increase was oversubscribed, customers received a refund of 
any oversubscribed shares. Mr G received his refund to the account the business 
had on file for him, rather than sending the money back through Worldpay.  
Computershare paid back the money through BACS transfer because this was the 
fastest way of returning the funds. 
Computershare didnt have the account details used to pay through Worldpay. In 
other words, it wasnt privy to that information. In the circumstances Computershare 
hasnt behaved unreasonably. 
The refund didnt appear in Mr Gs account until 22 October 2020, and the statement 
dated 21 October 2020, wasnt received until a few days later. BACS transfer works 
on a three-day cycle, taking up to/around three working days to clear. 
Computershare isnt responsible for any delays in the postal service.     
Mr G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
Computershare initially said it wasnt responsible for him not receiving the 
confirmation email, however it transpires that the business responsible for building 
the online application is a subsidiary of Computershare  therefore, they accept 
liability.  
If he didnt receive the email, based on what Computershare says, his application 
shouldve been unsuccessful  but it clearly wasnt. 
The explanation for why his money wasnt returned to his debit card account is 
unacceptable. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the busines 
behaved unreasonably or that Mr G is due compensation. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note Mr Gs strength of 
feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to support this complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he wont take the fact my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr G, and Computershare, and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Unlike 
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA), its not for our service to 
punish a business. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the 
relevant law, regulation, and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
On balance I think Mr G probably didnt receive a confirmation email after his application, for 
which Computershare is probably (ultimately) responsible. But that doesnt of itself mean 
that this complaint should be upheld or that Mr G is due any compensation because of it. Given the apparent setup and relationship between Computershare and the company 
operating the application website, it seems Computershare was responsible for ultimately 
processing and actioning Mr Gs request, and the other company was responsible for 
administering it under some kind of delegated power as a subsidiary of Computershare. 
Thats probably why, logistically, Computershare itself wasnt able to readily confirm (and 
probably didnt think it had to), Mr Gs instructions had been received - because the 
subsidiary company was tasked with doing that.  
This may explain why in an email to Mr G Computershare initially said:
I have referred your comments to Corporate Actions and they have advised that as the
application was submitted on a third party website, we are unable to confirm if a confirmation
email was sent. I can only apologise if this was not received.
Any why, in a subsequent email to the investigator, Computershare said:
The website used for the lAG Capital Increase was built by Reach, who are a 
Computershare subsidiary, and Computershare used their website building service. As a 
result, the responsibility for any errors with the processing of the application and processing 
of the payments would lie with Computershare.
By way of explanation, an email would have been sent by on receipt of the application via 
the Computershare application website, a draft template is attached. I would like to clarify 
that if a confirmation email was not received after submitting the instruction, then the 
application was not successful.
In the circumstances, I think it wouldve been helpful if Computershare had made its position 
clear from the outset but its not something that I can award Mr G compensation for. Im 
aware that this hasnt resulted in a financial loss to him and complaint handling isnt 
something I can generally consider/award compensation for as part of my role as an 
ombudsman.  
I note Mr G very sensibly took a screenshot of his application/payment, as proof. But Im also 
aware that if he was still concerned, he couldve telephoned Computershare later to confirm 
receipt of his application/payment, regardless of the status of the email. In any case, Im not 
suggesting hes done anything wrong by not doing so.
Notwithstanding the above, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, it could be argued 
that a confirmation email  confirming acceptance of his instructions  probably wasnt 
(automatically) sent to him because his instructions  in the exact terms specified by him   
couldnt be fulfilled. In any case, I acknowledge that Mr G wasnt sent an email 
acknowledging receipt of his application.
The above notwithstanding, in the circumstances Im not persuaded that Mr G wouldve done 
anything differently if hed received an email. Hes always intended to purchase more shares 
than was permissible in the circumstances, so it hasnt overall affected his permissible 
shareholdings.    
I agree with the investigator that Computershare wasnt obliged to immediately notify Mr G 
about the oversubscription, and that it hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. 
The oversubscription was down to matters that were outside of the business control, and Mr 
G wouldve had access to this information once hed logged into his account. Like the 
investigator I also agree that this didnt impact on his eligible share allocation. So, in the 
circumstances I cant say the business has behaved unreasonably. Im aware that Mr G received a refund because the capital increase was over-subscribed. I 
note he quite rightly received a refund on the oversubscribed shares, because thats what 
hed initially paid for (upfront) as prescribed. 
Im aware that rather than sending the money back through Worldpay, the mechanism by 
which Mr G made payment (from one of his bank accounts), Computershare returned the 
money via BACS transfer to a different bank account that it already had on file, and where 
he normally received dividend payments.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, despite it not being to Mr Gs preference, Im unable 
to say that Computershare behaved unreasonably. I dont think the method of the refund 
payment was unreasonable. I note the business says that BACS transfer - principally an 
electronic money transfer  was the fastest way of returning the money. 
Unlike for example, a shop transaction   where a shop generally has no option but to refund 
money to the card making the payment  I dont think the business behaved unreasonably 
by refunding the money to the authorised bank account it already had on record, rather than 
paying the money through Worldpay or some other method. In any event, it wouldnt have 
had access to the specific bank account details. I note in an email to Mr G, the business 
said:
as you entered your bank details on a third party website, World Pay, Computershare 
does not store these details. As WorldPay held the funds, the quickest and more efficient 
way to issue refunds was to the bank details registered. (my emphasis)
Im conscious that the business couldve alternatively chosen to refund the money via 
cheque, as many businesses do in these circumstances. But whilst Mr G couldve paid the 
cheque into an account of his choice, it wouldve involved more delay, during which Mr G 
wouldve been deprived of having access to his money. In the circumstances, and on 
balance, Im satisfied that Computershare behaved reasonably by refunding the money via 
BACS transfer  within a reasonable amount of time  to the account it had on file, rather 
than holding on to his funds. 
If there were any delays, after the BACS transfer instructions had been submitted, I dont 
think this is something I can blame Computershare for. In other words, I cant hold the 
business responsible for the actions of a third-party electronic payment/transfer service, for 
which the business isnt responsible    
I note the money appeared in Mr Gs account on 22 October 2020, but he received the 
statement a few days after the transfer, dated 21 October 2020. On balance, the statement 
date would suggest thats when it was produced and sent by the business and probably as a 
result of his contact with the business. 
I note Mr Gs comments about the terms and conditions not mentioning refunds being paid to 
an authorised account, but not every single process can be mentioned in the terms and 
conditions because its impractical to do so. In the circumstances, I cant blame the business 
for not doing so. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that Computershare 
behaved unreasonably in this instance.  
I appreciate Mr G will be unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint and give them what they want.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this compliant and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman