DRN-3384681
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Capital Professional Limited (CPL) has collected fees from her ISA
without authorisation.
What happened
In 1998, Mrs D applied for an ISA with a firm which would ultimately become CPL. For ease
of reference, I will refer to this firm as CPL throughout my decision.
Though the sale of the investment was handled by CPL, the ISA was set up on a platform
belonging to another provider. Ill refer to it as Platform A.
Following the sale of the ISA, Mrs D had no further cause to deal with CPL. She managed
her investments from that point onwards by dealing with Platform A. Mrs D said she received
no correspondence from CPL in the years following her application.
In around February 2020, Mrs D discussed her ISA with Platform A. She says it was around
this time she became aware Platform A had been selling units in her investments to pay fees
charged by CPL, since 2016.
Mrs D complained to CPL. She argued its fees werent authorised and that she wanted them
to be refunded in full.
In its response to Mrs D, CPL explained the fee itd claimed was essentially the same fee itd
been claiming from her ISA since the investment was arranged back in 1998. It explained
shed always been paying a fee of 0.5% which entitled her to ongoing use of CPLs
execution only dealing desk, plus other benefits. CPL went on to say that due to a change in
regulations, her investment funds had been amended so the fee was charged differently, as
of 2016. CPL didnt accept its fees were unauthorised. It said Mrs D had consented to pay
the fees when she originally took the ISA in 1998.
Mrs D was unhappy with CPLs response, so she referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. As she appealed the investigators findings, the
matters been referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 March 2022  I said that there were some elements of 
this complaint which I could consider, and some that I could not. Of the elements I could 
consider, I explained that I did not intend to uphold them. This is what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at different conclusions to our investigator, which Ive explained
below.
As Ive understood it, Mrs Ds complaint is not simply that as of 2016, CPL shouldnt have
charged its fee in the way it did. She disputes the fairness of CPL charging her anything at
all. She claims to have had no service from CPL beyond the initial sale, and she doesnt
believe it is fair that a firm can charge a fee without providing a service.
Ive considered Mrs Ds concerns carefully, and having done so, I must start by saying there
are elements of this complaint which are beyond our services powers to consider. I shall
explain why.
Considering our jurisdiction in this complaint
In making this complaint, Mrs D is, in my view, challenging the foundations upon which
CPLs 0.5% fee has been claimed. So Ive begun my decision by considering how CPLs fee
came to be charged in the first place.
CPL has explained it sold Mrs Ds ISA in 1998. And that as part of that sale, she willve
consented to pay an ongoing fee of 0.5% for access to CPLs execution only broking service.
So the matter Mrs D is complaining about here, that CPL has charged her anything at all,
stems from the original sale of her ISA in 1998. Because of this, Ive had to consider our
services rules on time limits.
DISP 2.8.2R sets out the following:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
The fees in this complaint stem from an arrangement that was made in 1998. Its clearly
been more than six years since that happened. So what I need to consider is whether Mrs D
has complained about the fees within three years of when she was aware, or ought
reasonably to have become aware, she had cause for complaint.
As part of our services consideration of this complaint, Ive reached out to Platform A to
obtain copies of the correspondence it sent Mrs D about her ISA over the years. I received a
lot of paperwork in return, but among the most significant documents are:
Platform As letter noting charges from CPL dated 23 May 2016
Platform As ISA statement dated 12 July 2016
Platform As ISA statement dated 19 January 2017
These documents are significant, because in my view, any one of them couldve given Mrs D
reasonable awareness she had cause for complaint. And all three were sent more than three
years before Mrs D complained to CPL in February 2020.
The letter dated 23 May 2016
Platform As letter to Mrs D dated 23 May 2016 explains its heard from Mrs Ds adviser, and
that shes set up a new agreement to pay for its services. The letter names this adviser as
Capital Professional Ltd. The letter encourages Mrs D to check whether these details are
correct and pose any questions she might have about the fee to her adviser directly.
The letter is correctly addressed to Mrs D. And I note from Platform A that it will have been
posted out to her, as well as uploaded and made accessible via its online service.Ive considered the contents of this letter carefully. Mrs Ds complaint in February 2020 was
that she didnt believe she should be paying CPL anything at all. From this letter, it seems
clear to anyone readying it that Mrs D would in fact be paying CPL. So in my view, the
contents of this letter ought to have made her aware she had cause to complain.
The statement dated 12 July 2016
Platform A seems to have provided regular statements to Mrs D about her investments over
the years. And one such statement is dated 12 July 2016.
This statement names Capital Professional Ltd as an intermediary on Mrs Ds ISA. And
separately from this, notes a deduction of £5.44 from her investments with the statement
narrative Adviser Ongoing Fee Sell. This fee is reprinted on the last page of the statement
in a summary of fees section.
The statement is correctly addressed to Mrs D. And as with the letter she was sent, Platform
A says that it both posted a copy to her and uploaded it to its online service.
Ive considered that due to the way the statements formatted and printed across seven
pages, this information isnt likely to have had the same impact as the letter Ive mentioned
above. However, Mrs Ds complained specifically that she was not expecting to receive any
charges of this sort. So I think its likely this statement ought reasonably to have given her
cause to complain.
The statement dated 19 January 2017
Platform As statement dated 19 January 2017 is very similar in its content to the earlier
statement. Again it names CPL as an intermediary, and confirms transactions on Mrs Ds
investments labelled as Adviser Ongoing Fee Sell. The summary page this time confirms
that a total of £94.80 has been billed to Mrs Ds investments.
As before, I think this letter ought reasonably to have given Mrs D cause for complaint. Her
February 2020 complaint regards all such charges as being unauthorised, and this
statement shows clear evidence of them.
My provisional findings on jurisdiction
In questioning CPLs basis for charging her anything at all, Mrs D is questioning the
agreement which has been in place since 1998, which was more than six years ago. Under
our rules, Id be able to consider this complaint if Mrs D had complained about it within three
years of when she knew, or ought to have known, she had cause to complain. But the
evidence Ive seen persuades me shes not done so.
Ive identified three correctly addressed documents which Platform A has said it posted Mrs
D, and made available to her online. And for the reasons Ive explained above, any one of
these documents ought reasonably to have made her aware she had cause for complaint.
Because of when these letters were sent, Im persuaded Mrs D ought to have been aware of
her cause to complain no later than January 2017 (if not earlier), which would at most give
her until January 2020 to complain if she was unhappy. Mrs D didnt complain to CPL until
15 February 2020. It follows that this element of her complaint is out of time.
Id still be able to consider this part of Mrs Ds complaint if CPL consented for me to do so, or
if I was persuaded that Mrs Ds complaint had been referred late as a result of exceptional
circumstances. But CPL has been clear that it does not consent. And Mrs D hasnt made us
aware of any circumstances which prevented her from complaining sooner than she did. So
for the reasons given above, I cannot consider this element of Mrs Ds complaint.Having said that, what Ive explained above doesnt preclude our service from looking at the
entirety of this complaint. Because each instance of CPL charging its fee is an event which
Mrs D is able to complain about. And a number of those fees were charged in the six years
immediately leading up to Mrs Ds complaint on 15 February 2020.
So whilst the initial basis for CPL charging its fees, and any fees charged prior to 15
February 2014 are beyond our power to consider, I am able to look into Mrs Ds concerns
with the fees she was charged in the six years immediately leading up to her complaint.
Because as per DISP 2.8.2R, Mrs D has complained within six years of those events, and I
do not require CPLs consent to consider them.
Considering the merits of this complaint
Having established our services jurisdiction in this matter, I will now move on to consider the
merits of Mrs Ds complaint. This concerns all fees charged post 15 February 2014.
Mrs D is unhappy CPL has charged her anything at all. Shes said that for the money shes
paid, shes received no service from CPL whatsoever.
The 0.5% fee Mrs Ds complaint focusses on is sometimes referred to as trail commission.
Prior to 31 December 2012, it was legitimate and not uncommon for advisors or
intermediaries selling investments to seek renumeration via a periodical fee, rather than
charging for their services up front. When applied, this commission would form part of a
bundle of charges which were deducted from any investments sold.
The Financial Services Authority (FSA), the UKs former industry regulator, conducted whats
known as The Retail Distribution Review (RDR), which outlawed trail commission for all new
investments sold following 31 December 2012. But it did not immediately require any
amendments be made to existing arrangements which were subject to trail commission. That
changed in 2016, when platforms like Platform A were compelled to convert the previously
bundled (with trail commission) arrangements into a new unbundled format. In the
unbundled format, the trail commission would still exist, but it would be displayed clearly and
separately from other fees charged to the investment.
The conclusions of RDR have informed my view of what is fair and reasonable in these
circumstances. There was, and still is, no regulatory requirement for firms to provide a
specific level of service in exchange for historic trail commission they receive. And Ive
thought about this carefully when considering Mrs Ds complaint.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I accept Mrs Ds testimony that shes received no ongoing
service from CPL in exchange for the money shes paid it during the period Ive established
our service has jurisdiction to consider. But none of the relevant regulations required a
service to be provided in exchange for the commission to be claimed. So I find that it was not
unfair of CPL to have done so.
The commission Mrs D was paying CPL has, in my view, been clearly highlighted in the
correspondence she received from Platform A, beginning in 2016. Referring to the
regulators guidance for consumers about trail commission, it wouldve been for Mrs D to
either rearrange her investments to remove the commission element. Or alternatively, to
speak to CPL about the level of service it was providing for her in exchange for the fee it was
collecting.
My provisional findings on merits
I have the power to set matters right and award compensation in cases where I find that a
business has treated its customer unfairly. But for the reasons given above, thats not whatIve found in Mrs Ds case. CPL has not treated her unfairly, so I do not uphold her 
complaint.
In reply, CPL accepted my provisional findings. But Mrs D did not. 
Shes reaffirmed that she never took advice from CPLs predecessor firm. Her investments 
were purchased on an execution only basis, and shes suggested that this ought to mean the 
fee couldnt be charged in the way it has been. Shes also disputed my finding that she ought 
to have known she had cause to complain any sooner than she did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. I shall explain 
why. 
The elements of this complaint I cannot consider
Whilst I acknowledge Mrs D feels differently, Im satisfied that the core of her complaint, that 
CPL has charged her anything at all, has been referred too late for our service to consider it. 
DISP 2.8.2R sets out the relevant time limits for bringing complaints to our service. And that 
to be in time, a complaint must be referred to us within six years of the event being 
complained about, or if longer, within three years of when the person complaining ought to 
have known they had cause to complain. 
In this case, CPLs basis for charging Mrs D stems from an agreement that was struck in 
1998, which is more than six years ago. So I could only consider the complaint if Mrs Ds 
complaint had been made within three years of when she ought to have realised she had 
cause to complain. 
But Ive identified three pieces of correspondence which Platform A sent to Mrs D in its 
capacity as her investment provider. These three pieces of correspondence all confirm CPL 
was charging Mrs D a fee, which is contrary to what she believed should be the case. And all 
three were sent more than three years before Mrs D complaint to CPL in February 2020. 
Theres been no suggestion from Mrs D that she didnt receive Platform As correspondence. 
And given their contents, Im satisfied receipt of Platform As correspondence ought to have 
prompted Mrs D to complain, mindful that from her perspective, she doesnt believe she 
shouldve paid CPL anything at all. 
I could still consider this element of Mrs Ds complaint if CPL consented. But it has not done 
so. I could also consider the complaint if I was persuaded Mrs D had referred it late as a 
result of exceptional circumstances. But Mrs D has not made us aware of any circumstances 
I would consider to be exceptional. So it follows that I cannot consider this element of her 
complaint. 
However, as I explained in my provisional decision, I can consider Mrs Ds complaint about 
any fees she was charged in the six years leading up to the complaint she made in February 
2020. Mrs Ds complaint about those fees willve been brought within six years of them being 
charged, and I do not require CPLs consent to consider that element of her complaint. 
The elements of this complaint I can consider For the reasons given previously, I will not be upholding Mrs Ds complaint about the fees 
she paid CPL in the six years leading up to her complaint. 
Mrs D has noted her original investments were sold on an execution only basis. She seems 
to suggest that as she didnt receive any advice from CPLs predecessor, it ought not to 
have ever charged her the 0.5% fee shes been paying in trail commission. But CPL has 
confirmed the trail commission charged during the timeframe I have jurisdiction to consider, 
was charged on the basis that no advice was given to Mrs D back in 1998. So the fact Mrs D 
took no advice when purchasing these investments has no bearing here. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, the regulator has conducted a review of 
arrangements like the one that existed between Mrs D and CPL. And whilst rules were 
changed off the back of this review, there was no requirement for firms like CPL to provide a 
specific level of service in exchange for the historic trail commission. Neither was there any 
requirement for CPL to cease claiming the commission. The key change from Mrs Ds 
perspective was that as of 2016, the commission CPL was charging needed to be displayed 
separately from other fees applied to her investments. And I can see that this change has 
taken effect in the correspondence Platform A sent her, which Ive highlighted above. 
The regulators guidance to consumers was that anyone wishing to either not pay these fees, 
or to receive an enhanced service for what they were paying, should speak directly with the 
firm taking payment. So mindful that Platform As correspondence made it clear Mrs D was 
paying CPL a fee, it wouldve been for her to discuss this with CPL if shed wanted to alter 
her arrangement with it. 
In coming to my decision about whats fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought very 
carefully about the findings of the regulators Retail Distribution Review. And having done so, 
Im not persuaded that CPL has treated Mrs D unfairly. So I do not uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that there are elements of this complaint, highlighted above, which I 
cannot consider. Of the elements of this complaint which I can consider, I do not uphold 
them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman