DRN-2931306
The complaint
Mr R, through a representative, says UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr R took out a guarantor loan from UK Credit on 29 December 2015. This means it was 
given on the basis that he had a guarantor who would be responsible for making the 
repayments if Mr R failed to. The loan was for £1,000 over 12 months. The monthly 
repayment was £100.58 and the total repayable was £1,206.96.
Mr R says the lenders checks were not adequate, had they been it would not have lent to 
him.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said UK Credits checks
were proportionate, but it did not respond fairly to the information in the credit check when it 
decided to give the loan. 
UK Credit disagreed saying, in summary, it was unfair to conclude Mr R was struggling 
financially solely based on the results of his credit check. 
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I have reached my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, based on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when UK Credit lent to Mr R. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged UK Credit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, UK Credit was required to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether Mr R could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr R. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr R, and have considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Rs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
UK Credit asked for some information from Mr R before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It used an
income verification tool to check his declared income. It checked his credit file to understand
his credit history and existing debts. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was 
for car repairs. From these checks combined UK Credit concluded Mr R had a monthly 
disposable income of around £450 and so the loan repayment of £100.58 would be 
affordable.
Given the term and value of the loan, and the size of the monthly repayment, I think UK 
Credits checks were reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think it reacted appropriately 
to the information it gathered when making its lending decision. Ill explain why.
The credit check the lender completed showed Mr R had a relatively low level of debt 
(£1,087) and there was no adverse information recorded. However, I think closer scrutiny 
shows there were signs Mr R had likely started to struggle financially. This was the fifth line 
of credit he had taken out in the last six months (two payday loans, a credit card and a line of 
high-cost revolving credit). He had quickly spent close to his limits on the latter two products. 
And he seemed to have needed to set up a revised repayment plan on the second payday 
loan. The report shows it had been due to be repaid in one payment of £367. UK Credit 
points out that the payment history was showing as unreported so we cant know the 
accurate position. But Mr R had told UK Credit on the application call that he was repaying 
£50 a month. 
UK Credit then argues that we dont know why this was  it may have been at the lenders 
request not Mr Rs. On balance, I think its more likely the latter and UK Credit hasnt supplied any information to support its suggestion. But anyway UK Credit ought to have 
investigated this further to get the assurances it needed that Mr Rs finances were not under 
pressure before agreeing to lend. 
There was already evidence he might be borrowing to repay, as this active payday loan had 
been taken out a week after he repaid his previous payday loan, suggesting the repayment 
had caused a hole in his finances. I think this use of payday loans should also have 
suggested to UK Credit it was unlikely Mr R had the disposable income it had calculated. It 
accepted his explanation that hed needed the second payday loan to cover seasonal costs 
without considering the previous, settled payday loan. 
In the round, I think the recent borrowing pattern that Mr Rs credit check showed ought to 
have indicated to UK Credit that he was likely having problems managing his money and 
there was a risk this loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr R. And it needed to 
consider this to meet its obligations, not just the pounds and pence affordability. 
UK Credit points out that Mr R was comfortably repaying a hire purchase agreement that 
was due to end shortly, increasing his disposable income by £95 a month. But I am not 
persuaded that is a fair observation. I agree he had met all his contractual repayments but, 
as Ive set out above, in parallel to this he had taken out two payday loans, two lines of 
revolving credit that he was almost at his limit on, and he was now applying for a third loan. 
So I dont think UK Credit can fairly conclude that he was comfortably repaying that credit.   
UK Credit also argues that Mr Rs good payment history on this loan shows it was 
affordable, but it does not know how Mr R funded his repayments and whether it contributed 
to the financial harm I can see he has gone on to suffer.
It follows I think UK Credit was wrong to give the loan to Mr R.
I have not found any evidence that UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way towards Mr R.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
So UK Credit should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Mr R made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Rs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Rs loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding UK Credit
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. My final decision
I am upholding Mr Rs complaint. UK Credit Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman