DRN-3567939
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont fully reimburse 
her financial losses after she fell victim to a scam.
Whats happened?
Ms T has fallen victim to a safe account scam.
She says that, on 26 May 2021, she received what she thought was a genuine text message 
from her mobile phone provider, asking her to follow a link and input some personal details 
because a scheduled payment via standing order hadnt been successful.
Later that day, she got a call from a man who said he worked in Halifaxs fraud investigation 
unit. He told her that someone had impersonated her in a Halifax branch and tried to transfer 
£37,000 out of her account using her passport and driving licence  the CCTV had been 
checked and it was clear that the person did not fit Ms Ts description. In the following order, 
the caller asked her to:
Check she still had her passport and driving licence in her possession. When she 
confirmed that she did, the caller said the CCTV showed that her impersonator hadnt 
actually presented identification documents as records suggested, so it must be a 
case of internal fraud.
So that Ms T could be sure she was speaking to an employee of the bank, the caller 
suggested that she search the internet for Halifaxs telephone number and         
cross-reference it with the number they were calling her from. She says she did, and 
the numbers matched (unbeknown to Ms T, the caller had spoofed Halifaxs 
telephone number).
Log-in to her online banking and check whether any unusual transactions had taken 
place.
Assist him in catching the culprits by making payments out of her account to a safe 
account. The caller assured her that he would freeze her account and take it offline, 
so the transactions she made would just be dummy transactions and no money 
would really leave her account. Ms T says she received a follow-up text message 
confirming that her account was offline, and her banking application was no longer 
live.
Make a £25,000 payment to an individual account held with another bank. She made 
the payment from her ISA at 12:04. The caller told her that someone else from the 
bank would need to speak to her for the transaction to go through, and she should 
tell them that the payment was going to her sister (who had given her account details 
over face-to-face) and that the money was to pay for a kitchen. A telephone 
conversation with a Halifax employee was indeed required and Ms T answered their 
questions about the payment in the way the caller had instructed her to. After the call, 
the caller said there were red flags in the conversation that pointed to internal fraud 
 such as the Halifax employee asking her for her National Insurance number, which 
they said shouldnt have happened.
Make another payment of £18,500 to an individual account, which she did at 12:17. 
The caller coached her through the online payment screens, so she didnt read any 
warnings that popped up  she just followed the instructions the caller gave her.
Take out a loan for £25,000 to prevent fraudsters from taking out a loan in her name. 
She did this online at 12:59 whilst walking to a branch to make another payment as 
instructed.
Go to a branch wearing something distinctive so that the caller, who would be 
watching and trying to catch the fraudster, could recognise her, and make a payment 
for £19,500. She was told to claim this payment was again going to her sister for 
home improvements. The payment was made at 14:45.
When she got home, make another payment for £5,750, which was all she had left. 
She made this payment at 15:53.
Go to a branch for an appointment with a staff member the next day.
When Ms T attended a branch as requested, it became apparent that shed been defrauded. 
So, she raised a fraud claim with Halifax. But Halifax was unable to retrieve any of her funds 
from the receiving account/s, and its declined to reimburse all of her loss (its only refunded 
the last payment she made for £5,750) under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) because it says she ignored effective warnings it gave 
her during the payment journeys and she made the payments without a reasonable basis for 
belief. It is also holding her liable for the loan.
Ms T asked this Service to consider a complaint against Halifax. She said:
She was highly stressed, agitated and worried when she followed the callers 
instructions.
The caller knew personal details about her, such as her date of birth and address. 
That, together with the spoofed number they called her from meant she completely 
trusted the caller and believed they worked for Halifax as theyd said.
She was totally convinced that she was helping to catch inside fraudsters. She was 
under the callers spell the whole time and didnt have chance to think.
She believed she was making dummy transactions.
Halifax told us:
Ms T has a responsibility to protect herself from fraud, but she didnt carry out any 
due diligence on the caller, and she wasnt honest with the bank when it asked her 
questions about what she was doing.
It stopped the first £25,000 payment and spoke to Ms T on the telephone. She 
confirmed that the payment was genuine and that she wanted it to go through. When 
she was asked what the payment was for, she said she was lending money to her 
sister to pay for a kitchen renovation. Ms T was told to make sure the receiving 
account details were correct as there are no dispute rights on a direct transfer. She 
was asked whether she was being coerced into making the payment or whether someone had called from the bank or another organisation asking her to make the 
payment  she answered no and was advised that fraudsters make contact with 
convincing stories, and the bank would never call and ask her to move money. All the 
warnings shouldve alerted Ms T to the fraud underway.
The second payment Ms T instructed for £18,500 triggered an online friends and 
family warning which, again, shouldve alerted her to the fraud underway. But Ms T 
confirmed she still wished to proceed with the payment.
Staff were told that the purpose of the loan was for an extension and to pay for a new 
kitchen. Ms T said that much of the work had already been done and funds had 
already been paid to the builder. A new payee was set-up to send the loan funds to. 
Halifax discussed this, and the fact that the receiving account was a personal 
account, not a business account with Ms T. She said this wasnt a problem as shed 
paid the person previously. Ms Ts story seemed feasible, and warnings about scams 
were given.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that the warnings Halifax gave Ms T during the payment 
journeys were impactful enough to be considered effective under the CRM Code, so he 
didnt think Ms T had ignored an effective warning. He also thought that Ms T had a 
reasonable basis for belief. He recommended that Halifax reimburse any remaining funds 
Ms T has lost to the scam, as well as cancel the loan and reimburse any repayments Ms T 
has made towards it.
Halifax didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman. In 
summary, it said:
The warnings it gave Ms T were concise and covered the scam in detail  they said 
that fraudsters can copy telephone numbers and gave instructions to hang up.
A genuine member of staff wouldnt coach Ms T through the payment process telling 
her to ignore the warnings the bank gave, so this shouldve been a red flag.
Ms T shouldve wondered how the caller knew what she looked like.
It is usual for the bank to ask for transaction history as part of its security checks, and 
the caller only knew personal information about Ms T that shed given over in 
response to a text message.
Its implausible that Halifax would ask Ms T to move funds to an account held with 
another bank.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 15 June 2022. Ive set out the findings and conclusions 
I made below.
Halifax has already refunded the fourth payment Ms T made for £5,750, so I dont need to 
consider that payment here. I will decide whether it was fair and reasonable for Halifax to 
decline to reimburse the first three payments Ms T made.
Halifax is a signatory of the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payments (APP) scams, like the one Ms T has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax has argued that two of 
the exceptions apply in this case. It says that Ms T ignored effective warnings it gave during 
the payment journeys and she made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that 
the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or 
services and/or the person or business she was transacting with was legitimate.
Effective warning
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have an impact 
on the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the 
Customer.
Halifax hasnt provided a recording of the telephone conversation it had with Ms T after it 
stopped the first payment, but it has set out what was said in some detail and Ive no reason 
to doubt it.
Halifax has said Ms T wouldve been given a warning when she instructed the second 
payment, and its provided two different versions of what she would have seen. It isnt clear 
which one applies in this case, so Ive looked at them both, but I dont think either are 
effective.
The first version says:
how well do you know this person? well never call you to ask you to move your money to 
another account  Fraudsters can even copy our telephone number  Dont believe them. 
Hang up the phone  Learn more about this scam.
The second version says:
do you know this person well? Well never call you to move your money to another 
account  And well never call from the number on the back of your card.  If you get a call 
like this, hang up the phone.  Find out how to stay safe from scams on our Fraud Hub.
I appreciate that Halifax tried to give Ms T warnings in this case, but considering everything, 
Im not satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were met for any of 
the first three payments.
According to what Halifax has told us, the warning about safe account scams given during 
payment ones journey and payment threes journey was mixed with other information  for 
example, about ensuring receiving account details are correct and chargeback rights, coercion and email interception scams. Im not persuaded that the warnings given were 
specific enough to be effective.
The warning/s given during the second payments journey is more specific to safe account 
scams but does not explain the potential consequences of continuing with an irrevocable 
payment.
None of the warnings talk about the prevalence of safe account scams or go into detail about 
how sophisticated and persuasive they can be. They dont bring to life what a safe account 
scam looks like. They do not, for example, explain that fraudsters may appear to know their 
victims personal details because theyve clicked a link received via text message or email 
prior to receiving a call stating that fraud is occurring on their account/s, or that fraudsters 
often pretend that internal fraud is taking place in order to persuade their victim to distrust 
and lie to bank staff. So, Im not satisfied that the warnings given were impactful or likely to 
positively affect a customers decision making in a manner whereby the likelihood of a scam 
succeeding was reduced.
I think that the circumstances of the scam make the warnings Halifax gave even less 
effective. The fraudster was coaching Ms T through the payment journeys, and she was 
under their spell for the short period of time it took for the scam to unfold. The spoofed 
number together with the personal details the caller knew about her made her trust them and 
she was quickly following their instructions making, what she believed to be, dummy 
transactions in order to catch internal fraudsters. I can see why the warnings she was given 
didnt put doubt in her mind. She was persuaded that she wasnt even really making any 
payments. If Halifax had really brought to life what a scam of this nature looks like with 
specific and impactful information, then I think this wouldve been important information in 
the context of this scam that wouldve affected Ms Ts decision making.
Reasonable basis for belief
Im satisfied that Ms T had a reasonable basis for belief in this case.
Ms T has said she was highly stressed, agitated and worried when she followed the callers 
instructions, having just been told that a fraudster had tried to remove a substantial sum of 
money from her account. The caller knew personal details about her, such as her date of 
birth and address. And that, together with the spoofed number they called her from meant 
she completely trusted the caller and believed they worked for Halifax as theyd said. She 
was persuaded that she was making dummy transactions and had received a text message 
confirming her account was offline. She was totally convinced that she was helping to catch 
inside fraudsters. She was under the callers spell the whole time and didnt have chance to 
think.
There were undoubtedly some red flags Ms T couldve picked up on, particularly with the 
benefit of hindsight and/or with more time to think. But I can see that the scam took place 
over a short period. In the heat of the moment, in a pressured situation, I dont think its 
unreasonable that Ms T didnt realise she was being defrauded.
Conclusions
Considering everything, Im persuaded that Halifax should have reimbursed all the money 
Ms T lost to this scam under the CRM Code. Im not satisfied that any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
In addition, I think that Halifax ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this scam. Its 
common ground that Ms T authorised the payments under the Payment Services Regulations, and Halifax had an obligation to follow her payment instructions. But thats not 
the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, 
I consider that Halifax should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
The first payment triggered Halifaxs fraud detection system and, looking at Ms Ts prior 
account activity, I can see why  it stood out as unusual and out of character. Halifax spoke 
to Ms T about the payment on the telephone and I think it was right for it to do so. I need to 
consider whether Halifax did enough in the circumstances.
I wouldnt expect a bank to interrogate its customers about unusual payments. But, from 
what Halifax has said about the telephone conversation it had with Ms T about the first 
payment, it didnt ask any appropriate or meaningful follow-up or probing questions when 
she repeated the cover story the caller had coached her to tell  that the payment was 
genuine and she was lending money to her sister to pay for a kitchen renovation. It 
seems that her answer was taken at face value. Halifax explored some of the features of 
safe account scams, but as Ive set out above, the information it gave wasnt specific or 
detailed. Victims are often given cover stories, and, in my judgement, Halifax could and 
should have done more, using probing questions to get into the detail and test the purpose 
of the payment.
I appreciate that Halifax needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in 
payments against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment 
requests. But, if Halifax had gone further in challenging what Ms T said when it spoke to her, 
in order to satisfy itself that she wasnt falling victim to a scam, then I think its likely that the 
scam wouldve been exposed and Ms T wouldnt have made the first payment, any 
subsequent payments or taken out a loan.
The relevance of this finding is that Halifax ought to have prevented Ms Ts entire loss. It 
follows that Halifax should refund any money Ms T has lost (not from lending) as well as pay 
her interest from the date of loss rather than the date it decided not to refund her under the 
Code. It should also cancel the loan, reimburse any repayments Ms T has made towards it, 
and pay interest from the date any repayment/s was made to the date of reimbursement.
Halifax should pay interest at Ms Ts ISA rate on any money she lost to the scam that was 
transferred directly out of the ISA or from the ISA into a current account before being moved 
on to the scammer, and interest at 8% simple per year on all other funds reimbursed.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Ms T and Halifax accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, and neither have provided me with 
any new information to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
Refund any money Ms T has lost to the scam (not from lending) and pay interest 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement (at Ms Ts ISA rate on any money that 
was transferred directly out of her ISA or from the ISA into her current account before 
being moved on to the scammer, and at 8% simple per year on any funds that were 
held in the current account prior to the scam).
Cancel the loan, reimburse any repayments Ms T has made towards it and pay 
interest at 8% simple per year from the date of each repayment to the date of 
reimbursement.
Halifax can deduct any money it has previously reimbursed from the total redress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman