DRN-3192568
The complaint
Mr M complained that Loans 2 Go Limited didnt do affordability checks and so lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided loans that were unaffordable. He told us he was in a vicious 
circle, borrowing loans in order to repay other debt. 
What happened
Mr M took out loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Date taken Total 
repayableTermMonthly 
repaymentLoan 
amountDate repaid
Loan 1 16/07/2016 £2,039 18 months £113.28 £500 28/09/2016
Loan 2 28/09/2016 £2,854.60 18 months £158.59 £700 15/03/2018
Loan 3 15/03/2018 £2,650.68 18 months £147.26 £650 02/08/2018
Loan 4 01/08/2018 £4,078.08 18 months £266 £1,000 02/03/2019
Loan 5 22/05/2019 £2,057.04 18 months £114.28 £500 28/10/2019
Loan 6 28/10/2019 £4,114.08 18 months £228.56 £1,000 19/11/2019
Loan 7 12/02/2020 £3,085.56 18 months £171.42 £750 21/05/2020
When Mr M complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold his complaint although it offered a 
payment of £500 in full and final settlement as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M didnt feel this 
was enough to resolve things so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and whilst she thought that Loans 2 Go 
hadnt done anything wrong when it provided loans 1-3, she felt that loans 4-7 shouldnt 
have been provided. 
Our adjudicator recommended partly upholding the complaint about those loans and she 
set out directions indicating what Loans 2 Go should do to put things right. 
Mr M confirmed that he accepted our adjudicators view.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said it understood our 
adjudicators approach but it hadnt found adequate reason to believe that Mr Ms borrowing 
had been detrimental. It said he had an excellent payment history and there was no glaring 
indication ever given that he was unable to keep up with his credit commitments. It said that 
Mr Ms credit profile improved over time  which didnt suggest he was struggling with credit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also require the lender to 
find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant 
adverse consequences or more money problems for a borrower who is already struggling 
with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Mr M hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not upholding his complaint 
about loans 1-3. So I dont think I need to say more about these loans except that Ive 
reviewed the whole complaint and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided the first 
three loans  so Im not upholding this part of Mr Ms complaint.   
But, like our adjudicator, I dont think Loans 2 Go shouldve provided loan 4  or any of 
the loans that followed. Ill explain why I say this.
Loans 2 Go asked Mr M about his income and expenses  including what he spent on his 
credit commitments. Loans 2 Go took steps to verify Mr Ms monthly pay and it also did its 
own credit check to understand Mr Ms credit history. 
Based on this, Loans 2 Go said Mr M shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment 
on this loan. But like our adjudicator I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that it couldnt rely 
on this information. 
I think that by loan 4, Loans 2 Go should have realised that Mr M wasnt managing to repay 
his borrowing in a sustainable way.
I say this because Loans 2 Go could see that:looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr M had struggled 
to repay previous loans. Hed taken out extra borrowing when he took out loans 2 
and 3 and hed used both these loans to repay his previous borrowing  
he took out loan 4 around the time he paid loan 3. This was the third time in a row 
that hed repaid a loan then quickly borrowed again  and this was his largest loan to 
date. By now hed been repaying loans with Loans 2 Go for 20 months  and this 
loan was twice the size of the first loan hed borrowed 
this didnt suggest that the lending provided by Loans 2 Go was enabling Mr M to 
improve his financial situation - it suggests to me that Mr M likely had to borrow again 
each time because he was facing money problems after repaying the previous loan - 
his financial situation overall evidently wasnt getting better 
this pattern of lending continued with the loans that followed  there were no 
significant breaks in-between loans and although the loan amounts varied, his overall 
pattern of lending suggests that Mr M was asking to borrow because his financial 
circumstances hadnt improved and he was now reliant on this sort of borrowing. 
Despite what its affordability calculations might have shown, I think Loans 2 Go should have 
realised that taking out this number of unsecured loans and repaying them early, including 
topping up with extra borrowing from time to time, suggested that Mr Ms finances were 
unstable and that he was using this type of borrowing much like short-term lending and, in 
reality, he was repeatedly refinancing his debt.
I think that all the indications were that Mr M wasnt managing his money well and he 
was already struggling financially. 
To my mind, it shouldve been apparent that Mr M probably didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that Loans 2 Go calculated given his heavy reliance on expensive credit. 
The signs were that his finances were already under significant stress and his debt had 
become unmanageable. I dont think Loans 2 Go was reasonably able to be satisfied in 
these circumstances that Mr M would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable 
way. And so Loans 2 Go should have realised that it shouldnt have provided loans 4-7.  
In coming to my decision Ive carefully considered Loans 2 Gos response to our 
adjudicators view  but in the circumstances I've described and for the reasons I've 
explained, this doesnt affect my decision. Repaying his loans without too much apparent 
difficulty and settling them early doesnt mean that Mr M was able to do so in a way that was 
sustainably affordable for him. 
I dont think that anything Mr M told Loans 2 Go was sufficient to rebut the signs, evident by 
this stage from his borrowing track record with Loans 2 Go, that he was most likely using 
these loans to meet his immediate need to repay credit commitments. 
And I havent seen anything to make me think that the lending Loans 2 Go provided to Mr M 
from loan 4 onwards wasnt detrimental to him overall. 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 4-7.Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay more than this. 
Loans 2 Go should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given 
loans 4-7. The repayments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr M bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay what he 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend loans 4-7. So 
Loans 2 Go should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file 
regarding loans 4-7.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loans 4-7 and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps 
I've set out above to put things right for Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman