DRN-3389680
The complaint
Ms H complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited (KMC) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) when she took out a mortgage with them.
What happened
Ms H applied for a mortgage with KMC in June 2004, through a broker. In July 2004 she 
responded to a direct mailing from KMC about PPI which she then went on to buy.
In the event of a successful claim the policy would have covered Ms Hs mortgage payments 
for up to a year at a time if she couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. 
Ms H says that the policy wasnt suitable for her and that KMC didnt give her enough 
information to know this before she bought it. KMC disagreed.
The adjudicator who first reviewed Ms Hs complaint agreed with her. They upheld Ms Hs 
complaint. Ms H agreed with this outcome but KMC didnt respond to the adjudicators view 
 so it cant be said that it agreed to the resolution. Accordingly, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this complaint. Having done so, I uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ms H didnt immediately buy the PPI when she applied for her mortgage with KMC. She 
responded to a letter to her about the PPI a short while after her application. She returned 
the application form agreeing to buy the PPI. 
KMC didnt provide Ms H with a personal recommendation about the PPI, so it didnt need to 
check it was right for her. But it did need to make sure it provided Ms H with all the 
information she needed to make her own decision about whether to buy it. It needed to make 
sure that information was clear, fair and not misleading and it needed to draw the main 
features of the policy to Ms Hs attention.
Ms H has provided a copy of part of the leaflet she received and completed. It asks her to 
confirm that she is in permanent gainful employment and that she had been in continuous 
employment for the preceding six months. She also needed to confirm that she was not 
aware of any impending unemployment. It did not define permanent gainful employment.
Ms H had two jobs at the time of sale. In one of them she was employed on a fixed term 
contract. In the other, she was self-employed. 
Looking at the likely terms of the policy (taken from a copy of the policy sent to Ms H at her 
request in 2007) I can see that the circumstances in which someone who was self-employed 
or employed on a fixed term contract were onerous. Ms H was on a fixed term contract and 
the policy terms precluded Ms H claiming for unemployment if that fixed contract wasnt 
renewed. She also had a second self-employed job. Ms H would have needed to provide 
evidence that her business had permanently ceased to trade. So she wouldnt have been 
covered unless she closed her business entirely rather than because she didnt have any or 
enough work. And she could only have claimed for unemployment if her fixed contract wasnt 
renewed and her self-employed business closed at the same time.
I cant see any evidence of how KMC made sure that Ms H understood clearly how these 
terms affected her ability to make a successful claim. Indeed, Ms H later tried to make an 
unemployment claim which was rejected because she had been on a fixed term contract.
I think if Ms H had understood she couldnt claim in these circumstances she wouldnt have 
thought the policy provided her with a useful benefit and I dont think she would have bought 
the policy. So I think she lost out as a result of what KMC did wrong. 
Putting things right
[When the adjudicator first gave their view about this complaint Ms H was also pursuing a 
separate complaint about her unsuccessful claim against the policy. So our adjudicator said 
that the redress in relation to this PPI complaint should be calculated only once that other 
complaint had been resolved as it potentially had implications for the redress to be paid 
here. That other complaint has now been resolved, so I can direct the following.
KMC should put Ms H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the 
PPI. KMC should:
Pay Ms H the amount she paid each month for the MPPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 KMC can take off any amounts its already paid regarding commission and profit 
share.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires KMC to take off tax from this interest. KMC must give 
Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Hs complaint and direct Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to pay 
compensation as described above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman