DRN-4059426
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC wouldnt allow him access to his account.
What happened
Mr D called Metro in October 2021 to raise a card dispute on his account. At this time, Mr D 
told Metro that hed changed his telephone number and email address, and this meant he 
needed to update these details before he could pass Metros security protocols. But because 
Metros process to update these details over the telephone meant sending a code to the 
telephone number that they held for Mr D  which was a phone number Mr D no longer had 
access to  Mr Ds details couldnt be updated at that time.
Additionally, while Metro did have a secondary process in place which involved matching Mr 
Ds voice to a prior inbound call received from Mr D within the last 30 days, because Mr D 
hadnt made an inbound call to Metro in the last 30 days, this verification method also 
couldnt be used. 
Mr D called Metro back the following month, at which time Metro made an exception to their 
process and voice matched Mr D to the unverified call from October 2021, after which they 
updated Mr Ds contact details so that he could regain access to his account. Mr D wasnt 
happy that hed been unable to access his account until his contact details were updated, so 
he raised a complaint.
Metro responded to Mr D and reiterated their telephone security and verification processes 
for raising a card dispute and updating contact information, and confirmed that they didnt 
feel that theyd acted unfairly by following those processes as they had. Mr D wasnt satisfied 
with Metros response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Metro had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can understand how Mr D would have been frustrated by his inability to 
access his account via the telephone as he would have liked, especially as he was overseas 
at the time in question and so wasnt able to resolve the matter by visiting a Metro branch.
However, banks such as Metro are both expected and entitled to have security protocols in 
place such as those that Mr D couldnt pass at the time of his call in October 2021. And, as 
the account holder, it was Mr Ds responsibility to keep Metro informed and up to date as to 
any changes to his telephone and email details, which if Mr D had done, would have 
negated the issues about which he now complains.
Metro have also explained that Mr D could have resolved the matter sooner by visiting one 
of their branches in person. And while I appreciate this Mr D couldnt do this because he was 
overseas, I feel that Mr Ds unavailability to pass Metros verification requirements and 
regain access to his account because he was overseas is unfortunate for Mr D but doesnt 
constitute any unfair act on the part of Metro.
Ultimately, I dont feel that Metros policies and processes which led to Mr D being 
temporarily unable to access his account are unfair or unreasonable here. And I feel that Mr 
D could have mitigated against what happened by keeping his details with Metro up to date, 
as per his responsibilities as an account holder. Finally, I feel that any restrictions that Mr D 
may have encountered resulting from his being overseas are unfortunate in this instance, but 
not unfair. 
All of which means that I dont feel Metro have acted unfairly towards Mr D as he contends 
here, especially given as Metro did make an exception to their process when Mr D called 
them again in November 2021 and accepted a voice match from Mr Ds October 2021 calls. 
And, while I accept that Mr D was inconvenienced by what happened, I feel that such 
inconvenience was unfortunately necessary, for the reasons explained above. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Metro to take any further action here. I trust that Mr D will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman