DRN-3213580
The complaint
Company A (A) complains that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited (Towergate) mis-
sold it a business protection policy as it was subsequently voided by the insurer due to 
inaccurate information having been provided about its fire alarms in the insurance proposal. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the reasons set out below.
When sourcing a business protection policy for A, Towergate had been provided with a 
statement of fact from As independent financial advisor (IFA) which had been used for its 
prior policy with Iprism. This statement of fact answered Yes to the question: Is the 
Property protected by a fire alarm and/or smoke detectors? 
 The QIC policy incepted in October 2019 therefore stated there was a Mains Wired Fire 
Alarm in response to the question: Does the property have a monitored fire alarm and or 
smoke detectors?.
In their policy voidance letter, QIC also referred to a further response provided by 
Towergate, which answered Yes to the question: Does clients premises have a sprinkler 
system or automatic fire alarm system installed?. However, following a fire at As premises, 
it transpired that this question had not been answered correctly because there was in fact no 
fire alarm system installed.
Towergate say they completed the insurance proposal based on the information provided in 
the statement of fact provided by As IFA, which stated there was a fire alarm system 
installed. It isnt clear why this question was answered incorrectly, since A doesnt dispute 
having no fire detection system on its business premises. But the previous statement of fact 
hadnt been completed by Towergate. And given that it was all deemed to be correct for As 
prior policy, I dont think it was unreasonable for the broker to use the information it 
contained for the purposes of arranging its next policy, especially as there would also be an 
opportunity for A and its agents to correct any inaccuracies and make any changes (if there 
were any) before the policy was incepted.
Towards this end, the QIC policy documents were sent to A (via its IFA) on 21 October 2019. 
This listed key endorsements in the policy schedule, which included having a fire alarm 
system in full and effective operation at all times. And given the statement of fact also listed 
that a fire alarm system had been installed, it was clear that this was the information that had 
been relied upon by the broker and the insurer when arranging cover, and that it was a 
condition of the policy to have an alarm installed. 
As a commercial customer, its reasonable to expect A to have read through its policy 
documentation to ensure it was correct, or to seek further clarification from its representative 
or Towergate if it did not understand anything or spotted any inaccuracies. Indeed, the policy 
documentation states:
Statement of Facts
We have used the information You have supplied to determine the terms on which 
they are prepared to provide the insurance and premium they require. It is extremely 
important that You check this document most carefully to ensure that You 
have taken care to honestly provide this information and that to the best of 
Your knowledge and belief it is accurate, and You have made a fair 
presentation of the risk. [My emphasis added].
The statement of fact clearly set out that A had a fire alarm installed, which was incorrect. It 
was also set out as a condition precedent to liability in the policy schedule, so I think this 
also ought reasonably to have prompted A to get in touch with Towergate to query the 
condition and correct the inaccuracy, as it wouldve known that it did not have a fire alarm 
installed. However, it failed to do so, meaning it misrepresented the risk, which ultimately led 
to the policy being cancelled. 
In terms of Towergates obligations, the broker sold the policy on an advised basis, which 
means they had to ensure it was suitable for As demands and needs. I understand that 
Towergate had been in possession of a risk report (carried out by MGAM in July 2019) which 
stated that A had to get a fire detection alarm installed within 90 days. But this was in 
relation to another policy that was never taken out. And the report does not categorically 
state that no alarm was fitted (it could have been referring to an upgraded system, for 
example). So I dont think this is enough to have necessarily put the broker on notice that 
any of As answers on the statement of fact were incorrect. 
In any event, Towergate were relying on information they had received from As IFA, which 
stated there was a fire alarm system installed, and the policy documentation containing this 
was also sent back to the IFA to check, with no corrections being made. So, Im not 
persuaded the broker had any reasonable basis to suspect the policy wasnt suitable for As 
needs at the time. 
Therefore, I dont consider that Towergate can be said to have mis-sold the policy in these 
circumstances, as they can only make a recommendation based on the information theyve 
been given, of which it was As responsibility to ensure was accurate. A had also obtained 
the services of an IFA who was acting on its behalf and was sent the policy documentation 
to check. However, if A has any concerns about the IFAs handling of the matter, then it 
would need to raise these concerns as a separate complaint with the responsible firm in the 
first instance.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to A, but Im not persuaded that Towergate 
can fairly be held responsible for the inaccurate information provided to the insurer, and 
neither do I consider them to have mis-sold the policy in these circumstances.  
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman