DRN-3124697
The complaint
Ms H, Mr H and Mr W trade as a business Ill refer to as H. Ms H, Mr H and Mr W have 
complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were impacted by 
the Covid-19 pandemic. 
 
Ms H, Mr H and Mr W have been helped in bringing their complaint by a representative. 
However, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of H.  
What happened
H held a business interruption insurance policy with NFU. They contacted NFU to claim on 
their policy after their business was impacted by the Governments actions in response to 
Covid-19. H said they saw a significant downturn in sales as many of the businesses they 
sold to were forced to close.  
 
NFU turned down the claim so H complained. NFU said there wasnt any cover under the 
policy as Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. It added that the extension for public 
emergency excluded loss caused by infectious or contagious diseases.
Customers and suppliers  
 
As H were unhappy with NFUs response they brought their complaint to our service. H think 
that the policy should provide cover under the extension for customers and suppliers. 
 
H said accidental damage is an insured peril and there are no exclusions within that section 
of the policy which apply to their claim. They added that where a policy is ambiguous it 
should be read in favour of the policyholder. 
 
H referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) to support 
their view that the policy should cover losses flowing from the interruption of Hs business 
due to Covid-19.  
 
NFU said that the policy requires damage, by an insured peril, to property in order to provide 
cover. NFU said property hadnt been damaged and, even if it had, it wouldnt have been by 
an insured peril.  
 
Customer service 
 
H said that when making the claim on the phone they were only told that the claim was 
declined and not given a reasonable explanation of why. They said nothing was put in writing 
and they were only given a full explanation in June 2020 after complaining.  
 
NFU said it correctly told H that the claim wasnt covered and then registered Hs complaint 
when H was unhappy.  
 
Other factors 
 
H said that they had a reasonable expectation that their policy would provide cover in 
the circumstances, particularly given the statements made by the Government towards the 
start of the pandemic. 
 
They added that they had complied with the claims conditions in the policy and taken steps 
to mitigate their losses.  
 
Our initial assessment 
 
Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think Covid-19 had caused damage to property. He didnt think that being told the outcome 
of the claim verbally had caused H a loss. And he didnt think any of the other points H 
raised meant Hs claim should be paid.  
 
H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said the meaning of damage 
within the policy was ambiguous and it was clear that the policy was intended to cover 
accidentally damaging circumstances. They said while there was no physical damage to 
property, they hadnt been able to use the property. H added that, if they had been given a 
full explanation sooner, there would have been an earlier resolution of the complaint. 
Before reaching a final decision, our investigator let H know that I intended to rely on the 
case law of TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v 
British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development 
Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348. Our investigator also asked H to comment on why they 
thought MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) was relevant, given that it 
has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. In response, H referred to Concept 
Group Limited v FM Insurance which it thought might be pertinent to its case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on H. But I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why. 
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if NFU has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Hs claim. 
 
H have made a number of detailed points. I dont intend to address them all and will instead 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint.  
 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Hs policy doesnt provide cover under the extension for 
public emergency, so Im not going to comment on that further.  
 Customers and suppliers 
 
This extension says: 
 
WE will pay for loss of GROSS PROFIT arising from DAMAGE to PROPERTY at 
any of the premises of YOUR 
existing and direct: 
1 customers; or 
2 suppliers of goods or materials; 
situated within the GEOGRAPHICAL LIMITS and arising from an INSURED 
PERIL. 
 
Damage is defined in the policy as:  
 
Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage. 
 
One of the insured perils is accidental damage and its under this peril that H think their 
claim should be covered. However, I dont think this would provide cover for Hs claim, 
because I havent seen anything to persuade me that Covid-19 caused damage to property 
at the premises of either Hs customers or suppliers. 
 
H have referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020), 
although they havent explained why they think it is now relevant, given that it has been 
overturned by the Court of Appeal. H also said Concept Group Limited v FM Insurance might 
be pertinent to their claim, although I understand a decision has not yet been handed 
down by the court. In any event, Ive considered other cases which I think are more relevant 
to the circumstances of this complaint, including TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance 
PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 
and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348. 
 
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would have need to have been a physical 
change or altered state to the property at the premises of either Hs customers or suppliers, 
which made the property less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage could be said to 
have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove a cause of potential damage. 
 
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in the premises 
of Hs customers or suppliers. However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-
healthcare settings doesnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist; and theres no evidence 
of an excessive amount of SARS-CoV-2 on the property of either Hs customers or suppliers. 
And the presence of any particular virus isnt automatically damage. So, I dont think Covid-
19 has damaged property at the premises of either Hs customers or suppliers.  
 
I understand H think that the wording of the policy is ambiguous; however, I dont agree. I 
think its clear that the policy requires damage to property in order to provide cover. I also 
dont think its relevant that theres not an exclusion for pandemics, as there isnt a term that 
would provide cover for the circumstances of Hs claim. 
 
Customer service 
 
Even if NFU didnt provide H with any further details of why their claim was declined in the 
initial call, Im not persuaded that caused H a loss. NFU correctly told H that their claim 
wasnt covered by the policy. I can understand that H would have wanted to know the details 
of why the claim was declined straight away, but they brought their complaint to our service 
after being told the reasons. So I dont think knowing the full reasons sooner would have 
brought an early resolution to the claim or to the complaint.   
Other factors 
 
Although H might have expected to be covered or understood from a Government 
announcement that their claim would be covered, whether that is the case would depend on 
the wording within their specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Hs policy provides 
cover for their claim. 
 
I dont think H complying with any claims conditions within the policy is relevant as there isnt 
any cover for their claim.  
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome H was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFU to pay Hs claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, Ms H and Mr 
W to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman