DRN-4467582
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold finance by Currys Group Limited (Currys).
What happened
In January 2023, Mr B made a purchase from a Currys store. To pay for the item, Mr B used 
his existing revolving credit facility provided by a company I shall call M.  
The finance terms for this purchase were that Mr B would receive a nine month Buy Now 
Pay Later (BNPL) period. If the full amount was repaid within that time, then no interest 
would apply. Mr B has explained this wasnt explained to him and that he wanted interest 
free finance to be repaid over a two-to-three-year term. This is in line with his previous 
purchases from Currys. He says by the time he become aware the finance terms werent as 
expected it was too late as he was rushing to leave the store to make another engagement.  
As the finance arrangement wasnt what Mr B wanted, he says he tried to return the goods 
the following week to the store he purchased them from, but this was declined as the product 
had been opened. He then says he tried to sort out the terms of the finance, both with M and 
Currys, but couldnt get the issue resolved. Mr B says he tried to raise a complaint, but this 
initially didnt happen. A complaint was logged with Currys in May 2023, and it provided its 
final response to Mr B on 3 July 2023.
In this Currys said there was no interest free credit available for his purchase. It said the 
credit was provided correctly on a nine-month BNPL arrangement and provided the date he 
needed to make repayment by for no interest to apply. Currys also said it would pay Mr B 
£50 as it couldnt provide any evidence to disprove that he had tried to log a complaint 
earlier than May 2023.
Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the matter and concluded that Currys hadnt mis-sold the agreement and that Mr 
B was aware of what type of finance arrangement he had taken out. The investigator also 
said Currys offer of £50 was fair for any possible delay in a complaint being logged for him.
Mr B replied and said had it been clearly explained to him the finance was on a BNPL 
arrangement and not a longer-term interest free credit agreement, he never wouldve made 
the purchase.
As Mr B remains unhappy the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In this case Im not persuaded that Mr B has been mis-sold. The evidence from Currys 
suggests that the type of interest free finance arrangement Mr B says he wanted, was never 
available on the purchase he was making. I therefore agree with the investigator and dont 
believe an advisor would have been able to complete the purchase on a type of finance that 
would never have been available. This is backed up by Mr B explaining that before leaving 
the store he was told the correct terms of the finance. 
Mr B has said by the time he become aware the finance wasnt on a longer-term interest free 
arrangement, he was rushing to make another engagement. Mr B has said had the BNPL 
finance been clearly explained to him he wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase. Had 
this been the case, then I dont see why he didnt cancel the purchase when it appears he 
clearly was aware of the finance terms beforehand. 
In addition, the goods had been opened when Mr B says he tried to return them to the store 
the following week. Mr B appears to suggest the only reason he went ahead with the 
purchase was because he was rushing to make another engagement. If this was the case 
and Mr B was always planning on returning the items due to the type of finance being 
provided, then I think the product wouldve remain unopened to assist with that return. 
As Mr Bs testimony confirms he was aware of the finance terms at the point of sale, I dont 
find that Currys mis-sold the BNPL agreement to him. 
Currys paid £50 after giving Mr B the benefit of doubt that he did try to log a complaint before 
one was raised in May 2023. I think this £50 is fair and reasonable for any distress caused 
by a delay in a complaint being raised and any inconvenience for Mr B having to make 
additional contract with Currys. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont require Currys Group Limited to do any more than it 
already has. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman