DRN-2927669
The complaint
Mr V has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. He isnt happy that it turned down a 
claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr V made a claim under his motor insurance policy after a third party reversed into his 
vehicle. At the time Mr V didnt realise what had happened as no one saw the accident. 
When he started his vehicle, he had a problem with his air conditioning and booked his 
vehicle in for inspection a few days later. And a further five days later Mr V let his broker 
know about the claim, but the broker delayed in telling Aviva about this.
By the time Mr V met Avivas engineer his vehicle had been repaired costing over £3,000. 
Aviva offered Mr V £728.84 as a cash-in-lieu (CIL) payment. This was because it didnt feel 
there was enough evidence to support his claim, especially as Aviva didnt get to survey the 
damage before repair. As Mr V wasnt happy about this he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She thought that 
Aviva had acted fairly as its position had been prejudiced. This was because it wasnt able to 
look into the circumstances of the claim and the damage caused before repair.
As Mr V didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Vs position and frustration as he simply wants his claim paid. But I 
have to be fair to both sides when I consider a complaint. And I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to say that all the repairs that were undertaken were linked to the accident. I know 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr V, but Ill explain why.
Mr V feels that the broker delayed in letting Aviva know about the claim, and I know that 
there was a small delay by the broker. But as our investigator explained the repairs were 
already being undertaken before the referral to the broker and then Aviva. And it appears 
that this delay has impacted the claim and Avivas ability to fully assess the damage caused.
Aviva has accepted that there was some damage to Mr Vs bumper and offered a CIL 
payment for this. However, it doesnt feel that the additional mechanical damage was caused 
by the accident. It had an engineer inspect Mr Vs vehicle and had a second engineer 
consider the level of damage as well. And both formed the view that the level of damage 
caused by the third party reversing into the bumper couldnt have caused the additional 
mechanical damage to Mr Vs vehicle. Avivas engineer spoke to Mr Vs repairing garage 
and a main dealership but concluded that the additional damage was most likely caused by 
mechanical failure.
I know Mr V isnt happy about this but without any supporting evidence, such as detailed 
photographs of the damage, or an independent report supporting his position I cant say 
Aviva has done anything wrong. Mr V feels that the delay in reporting the claim by his broker 
has contributed to this, but I cant hold Aviva responsible for the delay in reporting the claim. 
And as our investigator explained Mr V can make a complaint to his broker about this. 
However, the repair of his vehicle was already underway before his broker was notified and I 
would of expected Mr V and his repairing garage to have retained the parts as it was known 
at that stage that Mr V was making a claim.
Given all of this I dont think Aviva have done anything wrong as there isnt sufficient 
evidence to support Mr Vs position. Aviva spoke to a main dealership which explained that 
some of the mechanical repairs undertaken are common problems in Mr Vs make and 
model of vehicle. And given the high mileage of Mr Vs vehicle and the problems identified 
by the manufacturer I dont think Avivas position, that a lot of the repairs were mechanical 
problems as opposed to being caused in the accident, is unreasonable. And its engineer 
spoke to Mr Vs repairing mechanic in considering the claim, so I think it acted fairly and 
considered the claim fully. I know Mr V felt that the engineer could have been more thorough 
in inspecting his vehicle, but I think his inspection was reasonable given his professional 
expertise.
Finally, I know Mr V feels that he was accused of fraud, but I dont think that is what Aviva 
has alleged. Although I wasnt party to Mr Vs discussions with the engineer Aviva has 
simply said that there isnt sufficient evidence to support his claim. And is offering a CIL 
payment for some of the damage as opposed to saying that he has acted fraudulently. Aviva 
is simply saying that Mr V hasnt provided sufficient evidence to say all the repairs were 
required. And as it didnt have the opportunity to look at the vehicle before it was repaired, I 
cant say that it has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman