DRN-4328899
The complaint
Mr A complains that Revolut Ltd hasnt protected him from losing money to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr A has explained that in October 2022 scammers persuaded him 
his banking was compromised, and they tricked him into making payments from his HSBC 
account to his Revolut account, and from his Revolut account to various merchants. 
The relevant card payments from Mr As Revolut account were as follows.
Payment number Date Amount (£)
1 03 October 2022 3,000
2 03 October 2022 1,200
3 03 October 2022 1,200
4 03 October 2022 970
5 03 October 2022 500
6 03 October 2022 1,200
7 03 October 2022 200
8 03 October 2022 105
Total 8,375
Ultimately, Mr A didnt reach agreement with Revolut about things, so he referred his 
complaint about Revolut to us. One of our Investigators looked into things but was unable to 
resolve matters informally. The matter has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr A and Revolut my provisional decision in August, which they both responded to. Im 
now ready to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in part for materially the same 
reasons as explained in my provisional decision. Ive explained why again below.
Let me say again, first of all, I have no doubt Mr A has been the victim of a scam here. He 
has my heartfelt sympathy. Ultimately, however, Mr A has suffered his loss because of 
fraudsters, and this doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund from Revolut. It would only 
be fair for me to tell Revolut to reimburse Mr A his loss (or part of it) if I thought Revolut 
reasonably ought to have prevented the payments (or some of them) in the first place, or 
Revolut unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds after the payments had been made; 
and if I was satisfied, overall, this was a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Prevention
Im satisfied Mr A authorised the relevant payments, albeit he was tricked by scammers into 
doing so. Revolut would generally be expected to process payments a customer authorises 
it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of 
the account, Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where 
he authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry practice Revolut should 
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently 
unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious transactions  that could involve fraud or be the 
result of a scam. However, there are many payments made by customers each day and its 
not realistic or reasonable to expect Revolut to stop and check every payment instruction. 
Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent, and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. 
The prior activity of Mr As Revolut account is an important consideration when considering 
whether these payments were sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account such 
that Revolut should have paused the payments, pending further enquiries, before allowing 
them through. 
Mr A had his Revolut account since 2019 and looking at the account history its only in 
September 2022 that I can see any payments (before the scam) for more than £610. So, the 
payments made from his account were typically small (compared to the scam payments). 
The only exception to this that I can see is in September 2022 (as Ive said): on 
20 September 2022 Mr A received 5,000 EUR into his account; he then exchanged this to 
GBP; and he then paid this amount (£4,355.85) out from his Revolut account.
In these circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Revolut ought to have been obliged to 
intervene in the first two payments Mr A made from his Revolut account as a result of the 
scam  I dont think they were unusual or suspicious enough at that point. However, on 
payment three, given Mr A instructed payments one to three (as a result of the scam) within 
a period of just 18 minutes, which collectively totalled £5,400 for crypto exchanges, noting 
that the last two of these three payments were headed to the same crypto exchange (and for 
exactly the same amount with a space of just one minute between them), I do think Revoluts 
systems reasonably ought to have flagged the third payment for checks. These payment 
instructions collectively were unusual for Mr As account; and, in my view, sufficiently so 
such that Revolut ought reasonably to have paused the third payment, pending enquiries 
with Mr A, to check he wasnt at risk of financial harm.
I have no doubt that had Revolut intervened in payment three (as I think it reasonably ought 
to have done) by pausing the payment and speaking with Mr A, it would have unearthed the 
scam and it would have prevented Mr As third and subsequent payments from his Revolut 
account out to the scam. Im satisfied, therefore, that if Revolut had done what it reasonably 
ought to have done, Mr A wouldnt have lost payments three to eight, which total £4,175.
Recovery
When Mr A told Revolut hed been scammed, Revolut should have done its best to try to get 
his money back. However, because these were card payments, after these payments were 
instructed and executed (and irrespective of whether they showed as pending or not), the 
only potential avenue for recovering these payments would have been via the chargeback 
scheme. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. Revolut is bound by the card scheme providers 
chargeback rules. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a 
chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules, meaning there are only limited 
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
In this case, Mr A made the payments from his Revolut debit card directly to the merchants 
(which the parties will be aware were crypto exchanges, a hotel, and a restaurant), not 
directly to the scammers. This means the merchants here, for chargeback purposes, would 
have been these merchants (not the scammers). Even though Mr A was tricked into paying 
these merchants, I dont think he would have been able to show, for chargeback purposes, 
that the merchants didnt provide the services they were instructed to (albeit not to Mr A who 
was cruelly tricked). Unfortunately for Mr A, this means I dont think these payments were 
recoverable by Revolut through the chargeback scheme after they had been made. So I am 
satisfied Revolut didnt miss an opportunity to recover the payments after they were sent. 
Putting things right
Ive explained why Im satisfied that if Revolut had done what it should have, the loss of 
payments three to eight would most likely have been prevented. These payments total 
£4,175.
Ive thought about whether Mr A should bear some responsibility for this loss by way of 
contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). And Ive 
considered Revoluts points made in response to my provisional decision. I remain satisfied, 
however, that it wouldnt be fair to apply a contributory negligence deduction in this case. 
Revolut has said that: the merchants names would have been clearly displayed on Mr As 
screen each time he authorised them through the Revolut app; so he would have known the 
payments were going to the merchants; and this ought to have seemed strange to him 
considering this was supposed to be a safe account scam but no money was being moved 
to another bank account. But Mr A has explained that he asked the scammers about why the 
transactions were going to the merchants concerned, and he was reassured that this was a 
cover to prevent hackers (trying to empty his account) from tracking where his money was 
really going, so that whilst it looked like the money was going to those merchants it was 
really going to a new safe account for Mr As protection. I find what Mr A has said about this 
plausible, and Im persuaded he was genuinely tricked here by resourceful and clever 
scammers.
Revolut has also said Mr A must have provided the fraudsters with his full card details 
otherwise the payments would not have been possible; and that Mr A had time to think 
because there was a gap of almost two hours between the first and last transactions, and he 
topped up his Revolut account in the meantime. However, this is a case where Mr A was 
tricked by scammers into authorising the payments himself. And I dont think the question of 
whether Mr A did or did not provide his card details to the scammers posing as his bank 
should make a difference in this case. Further, Mr A has plausibly maintained that he was on 
the phone with the scammers for over two hours, and Im satisfied the scam seems to have 
been drawn out over that time with the scammers persuading and tricking Mr A into moving 
money from his HSBC account to his Revolut account and then on from there for the 
scammers purposes. 
Overall, Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Mr A felt pressure to act quickly, that he was 
tricked by resourceful and clever scammers; and that I cant fairly say he acted with such 
carelessness, or disregard, that a deduction for contributory negligence would be 
appropriate here. So whilst there may be cases where a reduction in compensation for 
contributory negligence is appropriate, Im satisfied this isnt one of them. So, Revolut should pay Mr A £4,175. It should also pay Mr A interest on this amount 
calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
Finally, Ive considered whether Revolut should pay Mr A compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of Revoluts actions. In considering this, Ive 
specifically thought about the impact of Revoluts actions, rather than the impact of the crime 
itself. Revoluts failure to act has had an impact on Mr A, not least because he has been 
facing the very real possibility for some time that he would not get (some of) his money back. 
As Ive explained, Revolut had the opportunity to prevent payments three to eight being lost 
to the scam. For these reasons, Im satisfied Revolut should pay Mr A £200 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part, and I direct Revolut Ltd to pay 
Mr A:
£4,175; plus
interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement (if Revolut deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Mr A 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate); plus
£200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman