DRN-3687131
The complaint
Miss G complains that St Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited (SJP) poorly 
administered her pension plan over a long period, including making a large payment to her 
without warning her of the tax consequences. She would like compensation for the extra tax 
she has paid and the inconvenience.
What happened
Miss Gs pension plan with SJP was split between crystallised funds, where some benefits 
had been taken and uncrystallised funds where they hadnt. In August 2020 Miss G wrote to 
SJP requesting a net monthly withdrawal of £900 from her crystallised fund. She says this 
income level would be inside her personal tax allowance. Miss G didnt hear from SJP, so 
she called it on 14 September 2020. It said it couldnt process the request without being told 
what gross income was required, which it couldnt advise her about, and it suggested she 
speak to her financial adviser. 
Miss G called SJP back on 18 September 2020 and instructed a gross withdrawal of £1,125 
per month. On 23 September 2020 it replied confirming the details and asked Miss G to 
agree she accepted the risks of making the withdrawals, which she confirmed on 28 
September 2020 and a payment was made on 5 October 2020. In November 2020 Miss G 
says she received a payment of £1,350. So, she called SJP to ask why. It said this was due 
to an income tax rebate following HMRC providing a new tax code for her. 
Following the payment on 7 April 2021 Miss Gs new financial adviser called SJP to query 
the tax position as the income required was £900 net. It said the income requested was 
£1,125 and a new application would be required to alter this. On 12 April 2021 Miss G wrote 
requesting a net monthly withdrawal of £900. On 26 April 2021 SJP emailed her back asking 
what gross figure she required. Miss G says she responded by email, but SJP say this 
wasnt received. Miss G called again on 7 May 2021 as shed been paid £1,125 not £900. It 
confirmed that the gross figure would now be £900, and this payment was made on 3 June 
2021. 
On 9 June 2021 Miss G says she emailed SJP with a query about withdrawing all of her 
funds. On 18 June 2021 it made a payment to her of around £12,180 having deducted 
around £5,000 in tax from the crystallised element of her fund. Miss G says she was 
shocked by this as shed expected SJP to send her further documentation for her to accept 
before making the payment. She says she wouldnt have proceeded if shed known how 
much tax would be payable. Her adviser contacted SJP the same day and stopped the 
encashment of the remainder of the plan.
Miss G complained to SJP on 28 June 2021. She raised a number of concerns including 
matters shed previously complained about. She said there were problems with SJPs secure 
email system as it wasnt receiving her emails. And each time she requested a withdrawal 
she got a response asking for the gross payment was, which was:
not good at all, although this was irrelevant as this was my only income which I kept 
telling you and that I did not pay tax.
She said she now needed to reclaim income tax from HMRC which was inconvenient and a 
lot of extra work. She said she believed that shed only enquired about withdrawing all her 
funds rather than requesting it be done. And that the money should not have been sent to 
her without SJP sending her a letter informing her about the risks of withdrawing the funds, 
as it had done in the past. She said SJP never get anything right and had yet again failed 
to look after my account.  
SJP accepted Miss Gs complaint in part, agreeing its service had been poor. It offered her 
£250 in compensation for this. But it said it was unable to accept any request for a net 
payment figure and required the gross income amount. It said it operated PAYE in line with 
HMRC requirements. It said Miss G had emailed to request a full withdrawal which it had 
processed, but that the risk warning letter normally sent before a withdrawal hadnt been 
issued due to an administrative error. It said she would need to contact HMRC to reclaim 
any tax. 
Miss G says she spoke to HMRC who said she needed a P45 from SJP in order to claim 
back excess tax deducted on the full withdrawal and she asked SJP to send it. After a delay 
SJP said it would be sent, but then, after several months more delay, advised it couldnt 
provide a P45 because there were still funds in the plan. Miss G says she decided to transfer 
her plan to another provider in order to trigger the production of a P45. She says the transfer 
was also delayed due to poor service from SJP. But, once the transfer was completed in 
April 2022, SJP said the P45 still wouldnt be issued until May/June 2022. 
Miss G had referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, and he 
upheld it in part. 
Our investigator said SJP were responsible for some delays in processing Miss Gs income 
requests. But he said SJP were the administrator of Miss Gs pension and not her adviser. 
This meant it wasnt responsible for calculating the gross income withdrawal required to 
provide the net income she wanted after any tax. He said SJP had paid the gross income 
Miss G had requested until she changed her instruction in April 2021. And if different 
amounts were paid to her this was due to tax adjustments or rebates which were not the 
responsibility of SJP. 
Our investigator said Miss G had made a clear request to withdraw all her pension and SJP 
were entitled to act upon her instruction. He didnt think the failure to issue the risk warning 
letter was relevant. As it wouldnt contain any information she wasnt already aware of, as 
this had been provided previously and shed confirmed she was happy with the risks. And 
the letter wouldnt have given any information about the actual tax liability but that it was fair 
to say that Miss G knew tax would be paid on the withdrawal. 
But he said SJP should have advised Miss G sooner about not being able to issue a P45 
until all her pension funds had been transferred. And that poor communication with her and 
her financial adviser subsequently had caused a delay in the transfer being completed, in 
part because SJP was using an encrypted email system with known problems. He said the 
situation had been more stressful than it should have been for Miss G, who suffered from 
poor health, as it had taken more than a year for the documents needed to reclaim the tax to 
be provided. 
In view of the poor service over the previous two years our investigator said SJP should 
increase the compensation it had offered from £250 to £500, provide the P45 and ensure 
Miss G had received it. 
Miss G responded to our investigators view in detail. In summary she said:SJP had misled her about the amount of monthly withdrawal required and it should 
have explained things properly. She disagreed that SJP couldnt advise her about the 
amount of withdrawal needed as SJP were receiving:
ongoing adviser charge and were  responsible for Regulated Advice and 
servicing my account.
She believed she hadnt emailed SJP requesting a withdrawal of all the funds but 
rather how to go about doing this. 
She said the risk letter should have been sent, so she wasnt warned of the 
consequences of making the withdrawal and wouldnt have gone ahead if it had been 
issued. She said SJP was required to communicate risk warnings clearly and 
prominently and had failed to do so. 
She said SJP had constantly misled her about the availability of the P45, taking more 
than five months to admit it couldnt be issued. 
She said SJPs service had been poor for more than two years and despite ongoing 
adviser servicing charges it had provided me with no service or ongoing advice at 
all.
Our investigator said our service could only consider her complaint about issues following 
her request for a regular income payment in August 2020. He said SJP wasnt responsible 
for providing her with advice. He said the two SJP advisers she had dealt with belonged to a 
separate entity, so any matters relating to advice hadnt been considered in this complaint.
Miss G said the advisers did come under SJP as theyd been referred to in the final 
response letter about her complaint. She said her request for a regular income had been a 
nightmare with just one correct payment and this wasnt being considered. She said the 
large withdrawal shouldnt have been made with out the risk letter. And she felt like she had 
wasted her time as SJP wasnt being held accountable.  
As Miss G doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint in part.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate financial 
businesses, which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell SJP 
or other financial services firms to change administrative procedures or impose sanctions on 
them if I think there have been failings. What I can consider is whether a businesss 
mistakes caused someone a financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience and, if so, 
what the business needs to do to put things right. 
Ive taken account of all the points Miss G has made. I think she was caused inconvenience 
by SJPs poor service over a long period of time. It delayed payment of the initial income 
withdrawal by not responding to her. And I think it should have clarified timeframes for the 
issue of the P45, dealt with enquiries regarding the transfer of the pension more efficiently 
and addressed the ongoing problems with emails much sooner than it did. But I dont think it 
made any errors in respect of the tax applied on the withdrawals Miss G wanted and I think it 
processed her instruction to withdraw all her funds fairly. Miss G has raised a point about advice and service in return for an ongoing adviser charge 
taken from her plan. Miss G was dealing with SJP directly rather than through SJP advisers, 
who operate through a separate legal entity and I know this distinction has caused some 
confusion. As the advisory arm is a different business, Im unable to consider this point in 
this complaint. However, if Miss G has concerns in this area, she can raise these directly 
with the relevant part of SJP. If she is unhappy with its response, she can refer the matter to 
our service. 
The regular withdrawal requests   
As, SJP was administrating the plan and not providing financial or taxation advice, it wasnt 
required to confirm what level of gross withdrawal was needed to provide the net income 
Miss G wanted. So, it hasnt treated her unfairly here and I havent seen anything that 
indicates SJP misled Miss G about the payment required. It suggested she take advice 
having initially referred the matter to her former SJP adviser. He replied that he was no 
longer acting for her as she has switched off her ongoing advice.  So, I think it acted 
reasonably here. 
Whilst Miss G says the income level she wanted was within her available personal tax 
allowance because of the way PAYE operates some tax might initially be deducted before 
HMRC issues a notice of coding. After which any initial over or underpayment of tax is 
adjusted going forward. SJP had to operate PAYE on the withdrawals as required by HMRC 
and it appears to have done so and I havent seen anything to suggest SJP made any error 
here. 
As SJP wouldnt know the exact tax position, asking Miss G for a gross rather than a net 
figure isnt unreasonable. It isnt clear how Miss G arrived at the gross figure of £1,125 - 
although it is £900 grossed up for 20% income tax. The November 2020 payment to Miss G 
of £1,350, was the refund of tax deducted the previous month of £225 added to the 
requested withdrawal of £1,125, following HMRC issuing the coding notice. 
The gross withdrawal could have been adjusted at that point to £900. Whilst Miss G was 
paid more income than she wanted, no income tax was payable on the withdrawals she 
received between October 2020 and March 2021. For the tax year 2021/2022 beginning in 
April 2021 HMRC issued a new notice of coding and some income tax would be deducted as 
the total income for the year at £1,125 gross per month would exceed the personal tax 
allowance.
As SJP wasnt responsible for calculating the impact of taxation or providing advice about it I 
dont think it has made any error here and didnt treat Miss G unfairly. But it did cause delays 
in arranging the withdrawals. 
The full withdrawal 
SJP has provided a copy of the email Miss G sent through the secure mailing system on 9 
June 2021, which I understand she isnt able to access due to problems with how the system 
works. In her email she said:
I would like to withdraw the whole of both accounts as you cannot seem to pay the 
correct amount and keep taking tax off. I believe that you need to send me a form with a valuation for my signature and I would be grateful if you would do this as soon 
as possible. It has been prior agreed that I can withdraw these accounts without any 
charges. I look forward to hearing from you urgently. 
This does request the full withdrawal of her pension funds, theres no reference to any 
concern about risks or tax consequences and I think the phrasing is clear that Miss G 
wanted the matter expediated. Miss G had been provided with the risk warnings previously 
in respect of the same type of withdrawal and responded by email to SJP on 28 September 
2020:
 I know all about the risks and I accept them
So, I dont think SJP providing a further letter setting out the same risk warnings again would 
have changed her decision. There wouldnt be any new information and, significantly, no 
indication of the amount of tax payable on the withdrawal. I think Miss G knew there would 
be tax. And because of the way PAYE operates excess tax was deducted and would need to 
be reclaimed from HMRC separately. So, I dont think SJP treated Miss G unfairly here and 
merely processed her request.
The P45 and other delays
It isnt clear to me why a P45 was required to reclaim the excess tax deducted on the 
withdrawal. But having contacted HMRC Miss G understood that it was. And whilst SJP 
wasnt providing her with advice I think SJPs failure to clarify the situation regarding the 
availability of the P45 did delay her reclaiming excess tax paid on the withdrawal. 
The delays here along with the other administration failings caused Miss G distress and 
inconvenience over many months. Miss G initially requested the P45 on 2 September 2021 
and despite several further requests, it was more than three months before SJP advised a 
P45 couldnt be issued as she still had benefits in the plan. 
There were also delays in providing information about the plan to facilitate its transfer, 
although some of this was not the fault of SJP as Miss Gs adviser moved firms during this 
time. Once the transferred was completed in April 2022 SJP said it would generate the P45 
in three days. But then advised more than a month later that the P45 wouldnt be issued until 
the end of May 2022 at the earliest. 
Together with the other problems and delays I think SJPs poor service caused Miss G 
distress and inconvenience over a long period, and she continually had to chase SJP for 
responses to her queries and requests. I think its fair that it pays her compensation for this. 
Putting things right
I dont think SJP made errors over the taxation of the withdrawals or in processing the full 
encashment. But it was responsible for repeated delays in part due to communication 
problems caused by the email system, and the provision of the P45 and information about 
the plan necessary for the transfer. 
SJP has offered Miss G £250 in compensation for the problems and delays before the 
issues with plan information and the production of a P45. These subsequent problems 
caused her further distress and inconvenience. So, I think its fair that SJP should pay a 
further £250 in addition to the £250 it has already offered to give £500 in total as 
compensation for this.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against St Jamess Place Investment 
Administration Limited.
I direct St Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited to pay Miss G a further £250 to 
give £500 in total in compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman