DRN-3005069
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr P complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Nationwide Building Society
.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr P took out the PPI with a mortgage in 2002. They said they applied for the 
mortgage during a meeting in a branch of the building society, and were advised to take the 
PPI  and indeed werent given a clear choice about taking it. Nationwide said that it would 
not have offered advice about the PPI.
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mrs B and Mr P. The 
cover was free of charge for the first 12 months, after which the monthly cost was £47.39 
(and I can see that this increased over time). The total monthly benefit was £950.00, and 
this was split equally between Mrs B and Mr P. If they had made a successful claim, the 
policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs B and Mr P disagreed, and 
asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021. Having reviewed all the evidence and 
information afresh, I said that I agreed with our adjudicator, but I wanted to explain my 
reasons in more detail and give both parties an opportunity to provide any further evidence 
theyd like me to consider. 
Nationwide responded to say it had nothing further to add. Mrs B and Mr P responded, 
saying they totally disagreed with my provisional decision, and that the full facts had not 
been considered or reviewed. They requested a telephone conversation to discuss this. The 
adjudicator made a number of attempts to call Mrs B and Mr P without success. As an 
alternative, we also invited Mrs B and Mr P to email to tell us what aspects of the provisional 
decision they disagreed with. However, Mrs B and Mr P did not send in any further 
information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs B and Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs B and Mr Ps complaint. I can assure Mrs B and Mr P that I 
have carefully considered all of the evidence and information that I have received in this 
case, and I have set out below the reasons for my decision. 
I have a number of documents relating to the PPI sale - Nationwide has sent in copies of 
Mrs B and Mr Ps mortgage application and mortgage offer, along with some of their PPI 
renewal notices and mortgage statements. It also sent in copies of its computer records of 
the PPI, together with the PPI information booklet and policy document from the time of the 
sale.
Nationwide and Mrs B and Mr P agreed that the PPI was sold during a meeting when Mrs B 
and Mr P were making their mortgage application. The mortgage application form was 
dated May 2002. I can see that Mrs B and Mr P subsequently withdrew from the purchase 
of the initial property, so the application was transferred to a second property, and a 
mortgage offer was issued by Nationwide in December 2002. The mortgage started later 
that month, and was repaid in 2006, at which point the PPI was cancelled.
Mrs B and Mr P said that the PPI was strongly recommended for them, and they felt 
they had no choice but to take it.
Looking firstly at the documentary evidence, I can see that most of the content of the 
application form was printed, so I think the information shown was most likely discussed 
with the salesperson and entered on to the computer system, to be printed off for signature. 
In the section relating to PPI, Mrs B and Mr P signed (separately from their signatures for 
the overall mortgage) to say that they wanted PPI, and underneath their signatures was set 
out the type of cover and amount of the monthly benefit. Theres nothing on the application 
form, or indeed the information booklet or policy document, to indicate that the PPI was 
compulsory. Nor was it a condition of the particular fixed-rate mortgage product that Mrs B 
and Mr P had chosen that they take PPI  I wouldve expected to see it stated on the 
mortgage offer if it this was the case.
I accept that I cant know how the salesperson presented the PPI during the meeting. Ive 
thought carefully about what Mrs B and Mr P said about the mortgage application meeting, 
and their description of events makes me think that the salesperson may have gone further 
than they should have done, and recommended the policy for Mrs B and Mr P. Their 
recollection of the meeting suggests that they were strongly encouraged to take out the 
PPI. However, Ive also kept in mind that the application meeting took place over 19 years 
ago, and its possible that Mrs B and Mr P have misremembered the encouragement to 
have PPI as a requirement that they had to take it.
Taking all the evidence into account, I dont think I can fairly say its most likely that the 
PPI was presented as compulsory, which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the 
complaint on this point  I simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened.
Nationwide and Mrs B and Mr P disagreed about whether the policy had been 
recommended for Mrs B and Mr P. However, this doesnt affect my decision, because even 
if I consider this complaint on the basis that Nationwide advised Mrs B and Mr P to take out 
the policy  which would hold it to a higher standard in that it shouldve made sure it was 
suitable for them  I think it was a reasonable recommendation to make.
As Ive said, I cant know how the salesperson explained the PPI - especially the things not 
covered. But I cant see that Mrs B and Mr P wouldve been affected by any of these. Its 
not clear how the exact cost of the PPI (after the free period) was explained to Mrs B and 
Mr P, although the cost per £100 benefit was shown on the PPI information booklet and I 
dont think theyd have agreed to take it without some idea of the cost for them. And Ive no 
evidence to suggest the premium was unaffordable for them. (I can see the premium was 
subsequently stated on the mortgage offer, alongside the confirmation that the first years 
cover was free of charge.)
I have some differing information on Mrs B and Mr Ps circumstances at the time of the 
sale. The initial information they sent in said that they wouldve been entitled to sick pay from their employers of between three and six months pay (although it wasnt clear 
whether both had the same entitlement). However, a record of a conversation between 
Nationwide and Mrs B made reference to both Mrs B and Mr P being entitled only to 
statutory sick pay. Redundancy pay wasnt mentioned, but given their length of service with 
their respective employers I think they wouldve been entitled to statutory redundancy pay.
Mrs B and Mr P also told us that theyd had no savings they couldve relied on. The record 
of the conversation between Mrs B and Nationwide also included a reference to life cover 
and pension arrangements, and Nationwide noted these in its final response letter. The life 
cover would only have paid out on death, and pension arrangements are long term 
investments so I have disregarded these as a means of making the mortgage payments 
should Mrs B and Mr P have been off sick from work, or made redundant, while they had 
the mortgage from Nationwide. I note that there was some confusion about how 
Nationwide had addressed these (and indeed statutory sick pay) in its final response letter, 
but in my view Nationwide also did not consider these as appropriate alternatives (although 
I think the wording in relation to pensions might have been more explicit).
As I explained, its not entirely clear whether Mrs B and Mr P wouldve been entitled to sick 
pay over and above statutory sick pay. But even if I take the higher entitlement they first 
mentioned, I think Mrs B and Mr P couldve found it difficult to meet the mortgage 
payments if either had been off work sick for any length of time  looking at the amount 
borrowed relative to their salaries at the time, it seems to me that the loss of one income 
couldve put their finances under strain. And I think either of them being made redundant 
could similarly have put their finances under pressure. I also think Mrs B and Mr P could 
reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was secured on their 
home.
So for the reasons stated above, I consider that the PPI was suitable for Mrs B and Mr P.
Ive also thought about the information they might have been given about the policy. I think 
its likely they were given the PPI information booklet at or after the meeting. As Ive said, 
the type of cover and amount of the monthly benefit were stated on the mortgage 
application form, and I dont think theyd have gone ahead with it without some idea of what 
the policy covered and what it would cost. But I cant know whether all of the details were 
explained.
I appreciate that Mrs B and Mr P feel strongly about this, but overall, although I cant know 
whether Nationwide clearly explained all of the policy details, I think Mrs B and Mr P would 
still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful protection if they hadnt 
been able to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. In my provisional 
decision I said that this meant I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. As none of the parties 
provided any new information in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions 
remain unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs B and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman