DRN-4234813
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard handled a 
claim he made to it.
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties here so I will cover these briefly and 
focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr S bought dental treatment (crowns) abroad from a clinic (the supplier) using his Barclays 
credit card. He is unhappy with the results of the treatment so he made a claim to Barclays 
to get a refund.
Barclays initially raised a chargeback in October 2022  but this was not successful. Mr S 
raised a complaint about this. Barclays responded in February 2023 and said it could not 
take the chargeback further but it could consider the case under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but needed more information from him in order to do so. It also 
says that it credited Mr S with £50 for poor service.  
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He acknowledged Barclays had made an error 
in handling the chargeback claim by failing to promptly review extra information Mr S had 
sent to it - but didnt think this had caused Mr S a financial loss. 
Mr S says he wants an ombudsman to look at the case for a final decision. In summary, he 
says he sent Barclays documents in the timescales it set out and it failed to follow its 
procedures/ignored this information. He says that whoever dealt with his complaint and 
decided he had not provided sufficient information is not a medical advisor but a complaint 
handler. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have only focused on the information I consider particularly relevant to determining what is 
fair and reasonable here - this is not intended as a discourtesy and reflects my role in 
resolving disputes informally. 
Barclays is not the supplier of dental treatment here  so in deciding if it acted fairly I 
consider its role as a provider of financial services only. In that respect I consider in a case 
such as this the provisions of chargeback and Section 75 to be particularly relevant. It is 
these I will focus on here.
Chargeback
Chargeback is one way in which Barclays can attempt to get Mr S a refund but it is subject to 
the rules of the card scheme and is not guaranteed to succeed. The statements provided 
indicate Mr S used a Mastercard here. However, I note Barclays refers to Visa in its final 
response letter. This could be a typographical error  but in any event I dont consider it 
changes the outcome here.
I note Mr S filled out a dispute claim form saying his teeth were larger than agreed and there 
were lots of gaps in the teeth. As a result he wanted half of his money back through 
chargeback.
Barclays did raise a chargeback for Mr S but says the supplier defended this. It appears this 
was the case and the supplier provided some before and after x-rays to show the size of the  
teeth and the spacing. 
Barclays asked Mr S for more evidence to support his case but it says that due to an internal 
error it wasnt able to review this before the deadline for continuing a chargeback passed.
I dont think in the circumstances Barclays was acting unreasonably in asking for further 
information in light of the suppliers defence. I think it is accepted Mr S did respond in time to 
Barclays request and I dont think there is any dispute here that Barclays should have 
reviewed the information sooner than it did. It appears because of its delay it was no longer 
able to continue the chargeback process even if it had wanted to (after reviewing the 
additional submissions). So I consider the central question here is what the likely 
consequences of that mistake have been. 
It is arguable as to whether what Mr S provided was significant new information to allow 
Barclays to challenge the supplier further. However, putting that aside had the chargeback 
continued and been pushed further I think it likely that the supplier would have continued to 
dispute it in any event. There is nothing that clearly indicates otherwise. Which would then 
leave the card scheme to make a decision on the matter via an arbitration process. 
The arbitration process is decided by the card scheme, whether that be Mastercard of Visa. 
And the outcome of this is not guaranteed. I appreciate that Mr S has arguably lost an 
opportunity to have his case put to arbitration. However, this is not a case where I think the 
prospect of success is more likely than not  in coming to this finding I note the following:
it involves a complex medical procedure and there is a lack of independent expert 
evidence to clearly show Mr S didnt get what was described or that the service was 
sub-standard  furthermore the chargeback scheme does not have the same powers 
a court does to compel witnesses and expert evidence;
from what Mr S said on the phone to Barclays when discussing the dispute the basis 
of his claim appears to be that his teeth are not perfect and he thinks they are 
horrible but this is somewhat subjective - there appears to be a lack of contractual 
paperwork showing that Mr S agreed to with the supplier or other evidence clearly 
showing he did not get what was described;
from what Mr S says in his submissions it appeared he wanted something different to 
what the supplier initially proposed and as a result of this negotiation signed some 
kind of disclaimer and an agreement that he would not get the usual warranty that 
comes with the crowns; and
it appears from some information that Mr S has sent in that the supplier was willing to 
look at resolving problems that Mr S has with a follow up consultation in any event.
I know Mr S is upset Barclays did not take the chargeback further even though he sent it 
more documents in time for it to continue a chargeback. But considering what I have said 
above I think on balance it is difficult to conclude that its actions have fairly deprived him of money in any event. Even if Barclays had taken it further I dont think there is compelling 
evidence to show the supplier would have accepted liability or the card scheme would likely 
have upheld the case and awarded him half his costs back. Therefore, I dont think it would 
be fair to conclude that Barclays should now reimburse Mr S half of what he paid the clinic 
for the treatment as he is claiming.
Section 75
Section 75 in certain circumstances allows Mr S to have a like claim against Barclays for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by a supplier of services paid for using his credit 
card.
Section 75 has technical criteria that needs to be satisfied in order for there to be a valid 
claim in respect of the actions of a particular supplier. For example, relating to who was 
involved in the agreement, how it was paid for and what the goods or services cost. In this 
case we have quite limited information about the nature of the contract agreed (which I will 
discuss later on). However, based on what I do have I am broadly satisfied the criteria is met 
for Mr S to have a valid claim against Barclays for a possible breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier in respect of the treatment he purchased.
In order to determine if there has been a breach of contract by the supplier any specific 
terms and conditions of the package Mr S bought along with any terms implied by consumer 
law will be relevant.
In this case I consider the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is particularly relevant as it implies a 
term into consumer contracts in respect of services as follows:
 that services will be performed with reasonable care and skill 
Barclays did not look into Section 75 initially and it probably could have so I think it fair to 
consider whether it should have upheld the claim based on the evidence available at the 
time. However, I consider there are similar challenges in determining a breach of contract 
here to those which I have outlined above in respect of the chargeback claim. In summary:
Mr S purchased a complex cosmetic treatment and something which I nor Barclays 
have expertise in. It is an invasive process which involves possible complications and 
side effects. It is commonly known that there are many variables with a cosmetic or 
medical treatment  and unlike some other services there is often a reasonable 
expectation that things may not always turn out as planned. So judging whether the 
supplier has acted without reasonable care and skill or breached the contract in 
some other way (even if discussions took place about a desired course of action at 
the outset) is not straightforward.
It is particularly challenging here with a lack of independent expert evidence to say 
there has been a breach of professional standards, further compounded with a lack 
of paperwork to show what was explicitly agreed between the parties (along with any 
conditions on this). The financial business nor this service (unlike a court) is able to 
compel witnesses for cross examination either  which makes getting to the bottom 
of things much more difficult.
As I have noted above  there also appears to be some kind of disclaimer which Mr S signed 
 and an indication he got the particular look he is unhappy with because he wanted a 
different sort of treatment to that originally proposed by the supplier. It all adds to the overall 
complexity and possible variables here which mean I am unable to fairly say that there is a 
clear breach of contract (or misrepresentation) based on the evidence Mr S presented to Barclays. So even though it didnt look into the Section 75 claim in depth at the time I dont 
think it ultimately made an error in not upholding a Section 75 claim at the time.
I know Mr S has indicated the supplier did not provide him with paperwork and it is at fault 
for this. But in the absence of this or any other persuasive evidence (such as an expert 
report) and considering the complexities and variables involving a cosmetic treatment it is 
difficult to have expected Barclays to have concluded there has been a breach of contract 
here with the information it had particularly without a clear agreement from the supplier that 
Mr S is due a refund for the way it carried out the treatment.
I note Barclays has said that if Mr S can provide further information such as an expert report 
it will consider the Section 75 claim further. It initially said it would contribute £250 towards 
an expert report. I am not sure if that goodwill offer still stands  but Mr S can see if this is 
still available. My decision here does not prevent Barclays from considering a Section 75 
claim taking into account any new information Mr S wishes to provide it. 
Customer service issues
I know Mr S has recently mentioned phone calls he had with service advisors about 
information he had provided to support his dispute but I dont think these are central to the 
key questions here around the likely outcome of the chargeback dispute (had it continued) 
and Barclays liability under Section 75 so I have not focused on them here. I also note there 
is not a dispute by Barclays that it made errors in the way it handled the dispute. Namely that 
it took too long to review the initial claim and that it didnt review the additional 
documentation Mr S sent in before the chargeback time limits expired for re-presenting 
evidence.
As I have indicated above  I dont think the impact of the mistake in respect of reviewing the 
evidence in time has likely caused Mr S a wider financial loss here. However, I do think this 
and the general delays have caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I note 
that Barclays has apologised to Mr S for its mistakes in its response letter. And I do take into 
account what appears to be a genuine apology when deciding what is fair compensation 
here. I think the majority of distress Mr S has been caused is naturally because Barclays did 
not refund him. But as I have said I dont think it acted unfairly in that regard. In the 
circumstances I think the £50 Barclays awarded is fair. In deciding this I have taken into 
account the guidance in regard to compensation awards we have on our website. 
Barclays final response letter and his complaint form says it credited the £50 to his account 
already. So I dont consider it has anything more to do here. I know Mr S will be disappointed 
that he isnt getting a refund but my decision here does not stop him from pursuing the 
supplier directly if he wishes (seeking appropriate legal advice in the process).
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman