DRN-2051809
 
The complaint
Mr D is a director of a business that Ill refer to as R. He complained on Rs behalf that 
GPUK LLP trading as Global Payments (GP) failed to support its appeal against the 
chargeback of a number of card transactions, resulting in significant losses for the business. 
Mr D also complains that GP held some of the funds from Rs account on reserve, without 
informing it, while the chargebacks were being investigated.
Mr D is represented in bringing this complaint by one of his employees, Mr H.
What happened
R has held card processing facilities with GP since 2014. In late May and early June 2019,  
R accepted multiple Card Not Present (CNP) transactions over the phone from a new 
customer. There were ten transactions in total over a period of 12 days, totalling £29,756.56. 
GP was concerned by declines on multiple card transactions through Rs card terminal 
during this period. They queried the transactions with the card issuers, who confirmed they 
were fraudulent. 
GP contacted R about these transactions on 14 June 2019. At this stage, R had already 
delivered goods to the value of £17,756.56 to its customer. GP reminded R that CNP 
transactions were taken at its own risk and were its liability. Following this, R didnt release 
the remaining £12,000 worth of goods to the customer.
R was immediately placed on reserve by GP while they investigated the total value that had 
been taken as a result of these transactions. Being placed on reserve meant that some of 
Rs funds were withheld by GP in a reserve account. This was to safeguard at least a 
proportion of the funds that might be required if the card issuer sought to reverse any of the 
transactions (under a process known as a chargeback). R said it was not informed of this 
action and it put considerable financial strain on the day-to-day running of the business. 
GP sent chargeback letters to R for ten transactions that had been rejected by the card 
issuing banks. They said all cardholders denied authorising or participating in these 
transactions, so they were deemed to be fraudulent. GP said R needed to provide certain 
evidence to enable them to defend the chargebacks and refute the cardholders claims. 
R responded on 24 July 2019. It also said that Mr D had recently undergone surgery and 
was unfit for work, so it requested the case be dealt with as a priority. 
GP said Rs responses were insufficient and that two of the ten transactions were now out of 
time to defend. The two in question had been sent to R on 27 June 2019 and a response 
had been required by 7 July 2019. GP chose not to defend any of the chargebacks, and the 
transactions were debited from Rs account. 
The funds that were being held in a reserve account by GP were released back to R on 7 
August 2019, once GP received bank statements from R and were satisfied that all the 
chargebacks had been paid.
R complained to GP, which said that all CNP transactions are taken at the merchants own 
risk and referred R to the terms of service of their agreement. R was unhappy with GPs 
response. It said GP shouldnt have authorised the payments and they were responsible for 
checking them. 
GP responded by explaining that Rs card terminal captures the transaction date and 
requests authorisation from the card issuer. When an authorisation is provided for the 
transaction, it confirms that the card has not been reported lost or stolen at the time of sale, 
and that there are enough funds available for payment, but it does not guarantee payment. 
GP re-iterated that CNP transactions are a greater risk of fraud, as there is no guarantee 
that you are dealing with the genuine cardholder, and they referred R to their Merchant 
Operating Instructions.
GP also said that the card transaction is governed by the relevant card scheme rules and, 
although they endeavour to defend chargeback disputes on behalf of their customers, they 
must act within these rules. They said they were unable to defend Rs case as the 
transactions had been certified as fraud by the cardholders and R had been unable to 
provide compelling documentary evidence to refute the cardholders claims. They were not 
obliged to notify R that it had been placed on reserve and this is set out in their terms of 
service.
R was still unhappy with GPs response, so it referred its complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into matters and didnt think that GP had done anything wrong in not 
defending the chargebacks. He thought that R should have been aware of the risk 
associated with CNP transactions and that GP had done enough to inform R about this risk.
R asked for the case to be considered by an ombudsman. It said that GP should never have 
authorised the transactions and it wanted them to refund the chargebacks. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Rs complaint last month, setting out what I thought GP 
needed to do to resolve the matter. I said:
Card Not Present (CNP) transactions
In late May and early June 2019, R accepted multiple CNP transactions over the 
phone from a new customer. CNP means neither the card nor the cardholder were 
present at the point of sale, and the card details were manually input into Rs card 
terminal. 
Processing CNP transactions is not uncommon but it does present a higher risk of a 
card being used fraudulently, as neither a signature nor a PIN have been used to 
verify the transaction as genuine. I can see that these risks are detailed in GPs 
Terms of Service and Merchant Operating Instructions, which were provided to         
R when they signed the card processing agreement in 2014. Sections 4.19 and 4.20 
of the Terms of Service say:
4.19 These Terms of Service and Merchant Operating Instructions contain 
guidelines for processing CNP transactions but undertaking such transactions will be 
solely at your commercial risk, regardless of whether or not any request for 
authorisation or other enquiries have been made to us or if an authorisation has been 
received.4.20 GP does not guarantee that any CNP transactions will be honoured or that GP 
will not exercise its chargeback or other rights of reduction or set-off under the 
Agreement in relation to such a transaction. 
  
And on page 33 of the Merchant Operating Instructions, under the section CARD 
NOT PRESENT (CNP) TRANSACTIONS, it says:
Card Not Present (CNP) transactions are any transaction where the card and 
cardholder arent physically present with you at the time of the transaction.
These transactions present an opportunity for fraud, as the card, signature and 
personal identification number (PIN) cannot be checked.
Note: Its vital that you understand the risks associated with CNP transactions. All 
CNP transactions are accepted at your own risk. Please read the How To Reduce 
Fraud section on page 76 which provides important advice on CNP fraud and how to 
minimise your risk of financial loss.
There is also information on page 3 of the Know the Risks document which provides 
details on how a merchant can minimise its risks when undertaking CNP 
transactions. 
In addition to the above, GPs internal notes state that R was educated about the 
risks of CNP transactions during a phone call shortly after the account was opened.  
These terms are clear and unambiguous, and a prominent part of the documentation 
provided to R. In deciding to accept CNP transactions, I think it was up to R to ensure 
it understood the associated risks and how to mitigate them. And taking the above 
into account, I think GP did all Id reasonably expect of it by providing R with the 
appropriate information about CNP transactions and the risks involved. 
Several different cards were used by Rs customer. Some of the transaction amounts 
were split, sometimes on the same card and sometimes on different cards, and a 
number of the card transactions were declined. I think that this should have alerted R 
to the fact that there might be an issue with the payments and made them more 
cautious in releasing the goods, especially as this was a new customer that it had not 
done business with before. 
Authorisation of the transactions
R told us that it obtained authorisation codes for these transactions and therefore 
believed that they were successful. It said GP shouldnt have authorised the 
payments and were responsible for checking them. However, the authorisation code 
comes from the card issuer, so GP did not authorise the payments and they werent 
responsible for checking them. 
The Terms of Service mentioned above also made it clear that authorisation didnt 
change the fact that the transaction was at the merchants risk. This is further 
expanded on in section 4.6 of these terms which says:
...Authorisation can only confirm the availability of credit limit or funds and that the 
card in question has not been reported as lost or stolen at the time of the transaction. 
Obtaining an authorisation does not guarantee payment or that such transactions 
cannot be the subject of a ChargebackI have looked at the information GP provided to R when the account was opened and 
I see that in the risk awareness section on pages 4 and 5 of the Merchant Operating 
Instructions, under the heading Chargebacks, it says:
Theres no guarantee of payment for any transaction, even if you obtained 
authorisation. Authorisation checks that at the time of the transaction, the card isnt 
reported lost or stolen and that the genuine cardholder has sufficient funds 
available. Authorisation cannot verify that the genuine cardholder is conducting the 
transaction. 
And on page 3 of the Know the Risks document there is a warning to Remember 
authorisation is NOT a guarantee of payment.
Again, I think GP did all I could reasonably expect of it in giving R appropriate 
information about what an authorisation code represents. 
Defence of the chargebacks
GP said it would not defend the chargebacks as R had not been able to provide 
compelling evidence to prove the cardholders authorisation or participation in the 
transactions. So, I have looked at the card scheme rules and the information 
provided by the cardholders and R to decide if this was fair.
The chargeback process is run by the card issuer and is subject to the relevant card 
scheme rules. In this case, the genuine owners of the cards disputed the transactions 
as unauthorised and the transactions were recognised as fraud by the card issuing 
banks. Based on the evidence that was provided, I am satisfied that the cards had 
not been reported lost or stolen at the time these transactions occurred. The 
cardholders have stated that neither they nor anyone authorised by them were 
involved in the disputed transactions, so I am satisfied that the chargebacks were 
legitimately raised. 
The card scheme rules say that if a merchant wants to dispute the chargebacks, it 
needs to provide documentary evidence to refute the cardholders claims that the 
transactions were fraudulent and show a link between the person receiving the goods 
and the cardholder. GP said Rs responses were insufficient as there was not enough 
evidence to prove that any of the transactions were genuine. They told R they were 
unable to defend the chargebacks on this basis. They also said that two of the 
responses were out of time to defend under the card scheme rules, but even if they 
had been submitted on time there still wasnt enough evidence for them to defend 
them.
I have reviewed the information that R submitted to GP to support its defence. 
Although R has supplied some of the information specified by GP, Im satisfied that 
GP acted reasonably in declining the defence of the chargebacks. I say this for 
several reasons. 
R was asked to provide a description of the goods, a detailed invoice with the 
cardholders information, details of the delivery address and signed proof of delivery 
showing the customers name, address and signature. R provided invoices, card 
receipts and delivery dockets to support its case. However, there are numerous card 
transactions for each invoice. The goods have been paid for using several different 
cards for the same purchase or splitting the transactions in half using the same card. The delivery address details are unclear on the delivery dockets and there appears to 
be no connection between any of the cardholders names, or between any of the 
people who have signed for receipt of the deliveries. Each delivery has also been 
signed for by a different person. 
So, Im satisfied that there was no compelling evidence with which to defend the 
chargebacks under the relevant card scheme rules, as R couldnt show a link 
between the person receiving the goods and the cardholder. Therefore, I think GP 
acted reasonably in not defending the chargebacks.
Im genuinely sorry to see that R has lost money as a result of this fraud, but Im 
afraid I cant say that this is because of anything GP did, or failed to do, in respect of 
the chargeback process or the authorisation of the transactions. 
GP placing Rs funds on reserve
R told us that GP held some of the funds from Rs account on reserve without 
informing it, while the chargebacks were being investigated. GP confirmed that they 
placed R on reserve to safeguard the funds that might be required for the anticipated 
chargebacks. R said this action had put considerable financial strain on the day-to-
day running of the business. 
While I agree that the Terms of Service allowed GP to block access to Rs funds 
while the transactions were under investigation, I dont agree that GP wasnt required 
to notify R of these actions. Clause 19 states:
At any time, GP may establish an account in its books and records ("Reserve 
Account") to secure the performance of your obligations under the Agreement. You 
will be advised within a reasonable time of GPs exercise of this right.
So, I think GP ought to have told R this was happening and explain the reasons why.
I think GP treated R unfairly in this regard. R had already suffered a significant loss 
as a result of the fraud, and it said this action had put considerable financial strain on 
the day-to-day running of the business. This had an impact on Rs cashflow and Mr D 
had difficulty contacting GP  having to spend time chasing them to find out why 
payments totalling more than £12,000 had been outstanding for over a month and 
were not being released. 
This all occurred during a period when Mr D was recovering from surgery and was 
not fit for work. R did not provide any evidence to suggest that it suffered a financial 
loss as a result of being placed on reserve by GP. 
However, I think R is entitled to some compensation for the inconvenience this lack 
of communication caused. It is for this reason that I am minded to direct GP to pay 
compensation of £200 to R.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision with any further comments or evidence 
for me to take into account.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having sent me anything further to take into 
consideration, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So this decision confirms my 
provisional findings, as detailed above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require GPUK LLP to pay £200 to R in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused to R when it was not told about being placed on reserve.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman