DRN-2080540
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) due to their 
insurance premiums for their home insurance increasing significantly over time. 
They feel that they have been taken advantage of as existing customers and they want 
compensation to reflect that they feel they have been overcharged. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out home insurance with Lloyds in 2010. Their initial premium was under 
£400 per year. 
They renewed their policy each year, predominantly doing so by automatic renewal.  
Mr and Mrs M noticed that their premiums were increasing each year, in excess of 
inflationary increases. 
Mr M contacted Lloyds to discuss this on occasion but was advised that the premium 
increases were set by management. On occasion, he was offered discounts against the 
renewal invitation price.  
Mr and Mrs M received their renewal information for 2018/19 and noted that the premium 
price was then nearly £1200 for the year. Mr M spoke with Lloyds and was offered a 
reduction in the price, but Mr M decided to cancel the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to Lloyds. They felt that they have been taken advantage of as 
loyal customers and that the increases were not fair. They have found lower quotes for 
cover, including a policy offered by Lloyds which they believe offered comparable cover for 
around half the price of their 2018/19 quote. 
Lloyds sent Mr and Mrs M its final response in February 2019. Lloyds did not uphold their 
complaint and explained that the quoted prices at each renewal may have been subject to 
discounts if Mr and Mrs M had contacted Lloyds but that discounts could not be uniformly 
offered within the renewal offer. Lloyds pointed out that renewal each year was not 
obligatory and that it was not possible to compare products and prices effectively as different 
levels of cover and eligibility criteria applied.  
Mr and Mrs M were not happy with this and contacted us.  
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that, having reviewed the particular circumstances and premium calculation information 
from Lloyds, he did not think that Lloyds had treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly, or charged them 
differently to others in similar circumstances. He therefore did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs M did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms concern and appreciate that the increase in premium costs 
from around £400 to around £1200 over 8 years seems excessive to them. 
Having reviewed the evidence and information available, however, I agree with the 
conclusions of the investigator.  
The investigator explained that it is not our role to regulate prices charged by financial 
businesses, nor to dictate the approach businesses take to setting prices. Our role is to 
consider specific complaints and whether the individual consumer has been treated fairly by 
the business, applying its policies. Where an individual has been treated unfairly, we can 
direct compensation. 
In this instance, Lloyds has shared with us its approach to calculating premiums and a 
breakdown of the risk costs in relation to Mr and Mrs Ms premiums each year. These show 
that there was a change in the risk assessment of the property, and of the contents, over the 
period of their insurance. 
The premiums offered to Mr and Mrs M at each renewal fell within Lloyds standard 
approach for calculating premiums and there is no evidence that Mr and Mrs M were treated 
differently to other consumers with similar circumstances to theirs. 
Mr and Mrs M did make contact with Lloyds over the period of insurance, and were offered 
discounts where available, and other products were discussed. 
I cannot describe Mr and Mrs M as passive in the decision to proceed with each renewal as 
they clearly engaged with the renewal information, even where they did not make contact or 
look to move insurer. It therefore appears that, taking into account what was offered by 
Lloyds, weighed against any other products and providers available, Mr and Mrs M were 
content to remain with Lloyds at each renewal. 
The investigator has also explained that comparisons with other products, or offered by 
different providers, are not necessarily indicative of whether the premium charged is fair as 
quotes can be influenced by different assessments of risk, or discounts applied. 
Overall, whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs M were able to find alternative cover which they 
feel is comparable with a different provider, for less, I have not seen evidence that Lloyds 
calculation of premium quotes over the period of insurance was unfair. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold this complaint. I realise 
that this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs M, but I hope it explains clearly why I have 
reached it. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman