DRN-4215144
The complaint
Mr K on behalf of the estate of Mrs K complains that RCI Bank UK Limited trading as RCI 
Bank UK (RCI) lost the death certificate of the late Mrs K because it sent it to the wrong 
address. Mr K is also unhappy that RCI didnt advise him at the outset of the need for a grant 
of probate to deal with Mrs Ks account. 
What happened
Mr K advised RCI over the phone of the death Mrs K and in response to a letter from RCI on 
8 February he sent it Mrs Ks death certificate but asked for its urgent return as it was 
needed for other authorities.
Mr K phoned RCI on 17 February chasing the death certificate. During this call Mr K was 
advised that a grant of probate was required to deal with Mrs Ks account. Mr K was 
unhappy with this as he wasnt told this at the outset which meant he would need to acquire 
an additional copy. Mr K was also advised the death certificate was received on 10 February 
and would take 3-5 working days to be processed before being returned. Mr K says he was 
told RCI was waiting for a tracking number and would call him back but failed to do so. 
Mr K complained to RCI. An advisor from RCI called Mr K to find out more about his 
complaint on 21 February and agreed to open a formal complaint.
On 28 February Mr K had a number of conversations with different people at RCI where he 
expressed his concern about receiving back the death certificate and the difficulties RCI 
were having tracking it.
Following some investigation into the issue Mr K received RCIs final response to his 
complaint on 3 March. RCI said it followed its process in asking for a grant of probate and 
didnt uphold that part of Mr Ks complaint. But said it made an error in the posting of the 
death certificate in the return address  the first line of the address was missing as this was 
the address Mr K had provided and due to a keying error the wrong address had been 
selected, but the postcode was correct. 
RCI says it sent the death certificate by recorded delivery and it was signed for by someone 
with exactly the same initials as Mr K on 24 February. It offered £40 compensation for its 
mistake and continues to look for the certificate.
Mr K says that the signature isnt his and that he hasnt received the death certificate back 
and brought the complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion that RCI 
hadnt done anything wrong regarding its advice around obtaining a grant of probate as it 
hadnt yet received evidence Mrs K had died and as this was the process it followed it had 
done nothing wrong. They agreed there had been an error in the address RCI had posted 
the death certificate back to, but felt that this had had a relatively minor impact on Mr K and 
thought the £40 offer of compensation was fair. 
Mr K was dissatisfied with this, he wants RCI to admit liability and doesnt believe the £40 
offered compensates him for all the time he spent trying to resolve the matter. He wants 
£500 and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And although Mr K 
wasnt happy that RCI didnt inform him of the need for a grant of probate at the outset, the 
crux of his complaint is regarding the loss of a death certificate  so the focus of my decision 
will be on that.
That being said it might help if I explain, we are not the regulator, I cannot make RCI change 
its policies or procedures  or tell it what processes it has to have in place for a bereaved 
customer or how it deals with an account on notification of a customers death. And as such, 
I cant say the point at which RCI it informed Mr K about the need for a grant of probate was 
wrong  it was just following its process.  
This service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover  thats the 
role of the regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority. We offer an informal 
dispute resolution service and my role in this case is to look at the problems the consumer 
(in this case the estate of the late Mrs K) has experienced and see if RCI has done anything 
wrong or made a mistake. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put the consumer back in 
the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable if I consider it warranted.
RCI has already accepted that it made a mistake when keying in the return address for the 
death certificate and this has resulted in the death certificate being lost. So I dont need to 
make a finding on this point. Though I think RCI took reasonable steps to ensure the safe 
return of the death certificate by sending and paying for it to be returned by recorded 
delivery. It is unfortunate in the keying error that occurred, but I think it has to be accepted 
that sometimes things dont go smoothly and mistakes do happen. RCI has offered £40 
compensation for this. Mr K is unhappy with this, he wants the death certificate returned and 
£500 compensation.
RCI says it continues to look for the death certificate, but I think too much time has passed 
and I think it has to be accepted the document has been lost and there is no reasonable or 
practical solution for getting it back. I appreciate this is most unsatisfactory for Mr K and he 
spent a lot of time chasing this. But I note that it is possible for him to get a replacement 
death certificate without too much trouble or cost. And I do think Mr K has to take some 
steps to try to mitigate the problem.
I also havent seen that the estate has suffered any financial loss from the loss of the death 
certificate  and as the estate is the eligible complainant here, I cant award any compensation for suffering or distress. Nor  as Ive stated about - is it my role to punish or 
penalise a business for its mistakes. 
So taking everything into consideration, I think the £40 compensation is fair way to settle this 
complaint for the administrative inconvenience caused to the estate by the loss of the death 
certificate. 
So it follows that Im satisfied that RCI has already done enough to put things right for the 
estate of the late Mrs K and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided what RCI Bank UK Limited has already offered 
to settle the estate of Mrs Ks complaint is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs K 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman