DRN-1665446
 
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Payzone UK Limited (Payzone) and the 
way they handled his request to cancel his agreement.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr T took out a card payment terminal rental agreement with Payzone for 
processing card payments to his business. The agreement was for a minimum term of 12 
months.
Mr T emailed Payzone on 18 June 2019 saying he was unhappy with the service hed 
received and no longer wanted to have anything to do with them. He said although Payzone 
agreed the first three months of the contract would be free this didnt happen, and Mr T had 
to follow this up with Payzone. He also said hed made repeated requests to sort the PCI. 
Payzone took months to resolve this.
Mr T didnt receive a response to his email, so in July 2019 Mr T called Payzone and said 
hed gone to a new supplier. He asked Payzone to provide him with a bill covering the period 
to the end of the minimum 12-month contract so that he could make a single payment, rather 
than pay by direct debit, which hed cancelled. Payzone told Mr T he should make monthly 
payments, and that if he didnt after a few months hed receive a bill with additional charges 
amounting to around £400. Mr T continued with his complaint.
In their final response Payzone said the service issues didnt warrant early termination of the 
agreement. Instead they offered a further three months free terminal rental as a gesture of 
goodwill. This offer was subject to Mr T reinstating his direct debit instruction and clearing 
the balance on his account. Payzone agreed Mr Ts agreement would end after the minimum 
12-month period on 10 February 2020.  
Our initial assessment
Our investigator said that because Payzone charged Mr T for the first three months of the 
contract and provided him with a poor level of service Mr T lost confidence in them and 
asked to cancel his agreement. The investigator said Mr T acted reasonably in offering to 
pay for the remaining six months of the contract and Payzone should have agreed to this. To 
put things right the investigator asked Payzone to cancel the contract once the remaining six 
months rental had been paid, waive any late payment charges and pay Mr T £75 
compensation. 
Payzone didnt agree. They said they had given Mr T an additional three months free rental 
(on top of the three months free at the beginning of the contract) to reflect the service 
provided. But Mr T signed a contract and should abide by it. The contract was for a minimum 
period of 12 months and said Mr T must pay certain charges if he ended the contract before 
the end of the minimum period. These included a termination charge of £40, a non-usage 
charge of £30 a month and monthly rental charges up to the end of the contract. The investigator tried to mediate an agreement without success. Payzone sent Mr T an 
invoice in November 2019 for £206.65, which included a termination fee, non-usage charges 
and outstanding rental. Mr T hasnt made a payment. I issued my provisional decision on 13 
February 2020. I said Payzone should issue a final invoice to Mr T to 10 February 2020. 
They are entitled to charge rental and non-use charges and a termination fee. But in 
recognition of the level of service Payzone provided they should deduct £75 from the final 
invoice. 
Mr T replied to the provisional decision and said:
He hired one machine not two
At the time he contacted Payzone asking for a final bill he was able to make 
payment, but his circumstances have changed and hes not now in a position to pay 
oneoff charges. 
As Payzone should have acted quicker Mr T suggests that he pay £200 in full and 
final settlement of the account (which takes in to account the £75 compensation 
payment I provisionally awarded), which hed pay by four monthly payments of £50.
Payzone responded and said they have nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my final decision is the 
same as my provisional decision and is set out below. 
The service provided by Payzone fell short in a number of areas, which must have been 
frustrating for Mr T and made running his business more difficult. Payzone have accepted 
they could have done better and have now dealt with the problems and not charged Mr T for 
a further three months rental. Having listened to calls Mr T made to Payzone and 
considered other evidence I dont consider theyve gone far enough. Mr T was on hold for 
lengthy periods, had to chase Payzone over a period of time to sort out data security and 
had to make calls because he was charged rental when the first three months were meant to 
be free. When he wrote an email to complain Mr T didnt get a response and had to call. 
Taking everything in to account I consider Payzone should also pay compensation to Mr T of 
£75 in recognition of the inconvenience hes been caused by their handling of matters.
Mr T has consistently said he is happy to buy out of the contract and is not avoiding 
payment. But he doesnt want to use the card terminals provided under his contract with 
Payzone or deal with them. Because Mr T signed up for a fixed term contract with Payzone 
they are entitled to charge him the amounts set out in the contract if he wants to cancel 
early. I dont think this is unfair.
Ive listened to Mr Ts call to Payzone in July 2019, when he discussed his dissatisfaction 
with the service hed been provided with and next steps. Mr T was clear he had a card 
machine ready for Payzone to collect as he was using a different provider. Mr T was told his 
email in June could be taken as notice he wished to auto-close the account in February 
2020, but hed need to continue to make monthly payments until then. In response Mr T said 
hed cancelled his direct debit and wouldnt be making any further payments. He asked for a 
final bill to the end of the contract. Payzone told Mr T if he stopped paying by direct debit 
hed be charged additional fees that would amount to around £400. Mr T reiterated his 
request for a final bill.
Payzone have said to this service they explained to Mr T in the call in July 2019 that he 
could only end his agreement and pay a termination fee after 18 months. Ive listened to the 
call and Payzone didnt provide this advice or mention 18 months at all. In any event, I dont think this is the case. The only reference to 18 months in the terms of the agreement 
between the parties is at condition 11.1. That condition merely serves to enable Mr T to 
terminate the agreement at any point after 18 months by giving one months notice to comply 
with the Consumer Credit Act 1974, as noted on the agreement. 
Clause 2 of Mr Ts hire agreement relates to duration of hire and says the merchant  Mr T 
in this case  will hire the equipment for the minimum period. This is set out as 12 months in 
Mr Ts agreement, which goes on to say, 
2.4 The Merchant may terminate the Contract on the expiry of the Minimum Period  by 
giving not less than two (2) months prior written warning to Payzone.
Mr T gave more than two months notice of his intention to terminate the agreement, and 
Payzone accepted in writing the agreement would end on 10 February 2020. In these 
circumstances clause 12.7 says Mr T must pay rental charges to the end of the minimum 
period and the early termination administration charge. The agreement also provides for Mr 
T to pay a monthly non-use charge until the end of the contract. 
Given what Ive said Im satisfied Mr T could terminate his contract in February 2020. I can 
see no reason why Payzone couldnt have provided Mr T with a final invoice to cover all 
rental and other charges until the end of the minimum period when he asked for this in July 
2019. Payzone should now issue a final invoice to Mr T to cover all outstanding rental costs 
and monthly non-usage charges to 10 February 2020, together with the one-off termination 
fee. 
I am sympathetic to the financial position Mr T now finds himself in, but feel the 
compensation awarded takes in to account the service provided to Mr T by Payzone. He is 
contractually obliged to make certain payments, which should have been made by now, so I 
cant reasonably ask Payzone to reduce them as Mr T has requested. Mr T may wish to 
approach Payzone directly to discuss paying the outstanding sum in instalments though. 
Payzone havent said they have made any entries on Mr Ts credit file, but for the sake of 
completeness Im satisfied they shouldnt. If Payzone have added any negative information 
concerning the hire agreement they should remove it from Mr Ts credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Payzone UK Limited should provide Mr T with a final invoice to 10 
February 2020, which should include rental and non-use charges as set out in the hire 
agreement to this date, together with the termination fee. Payzone should deduct from the 
final invoice £75 to compensate Mr T for the level of service provided.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman