DRN-3817537
The complaint
Mr H, through a representative, complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as 
Novuna Personal Finance irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr H took out a six-month interest free fixed sum loan for £359.63 from Novuna on 27 July
2020. The monthly repayments were £59.93. Mr H repaid the loan early on 15 September
2020.
Mr H says it was not in his interest to be given a loan at this time as he had financial
difficulties, particularly a loan with a high interest rate. He wants all interest and charges paid
refunding, 8% interest paying on the refund, any outstanding balance writing off and the loan
entry removing from his credit file.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint. She said Mr H was already spending a significant
proportion of his income on credit repayments and so there was a risk he would be unable to
sustainably repay this loan.
Unhappy with this assessment Novuna asked for an ombudsmans review. It said given
Mr Hs circumstances it found it unlikely he could not afford the repayment from his
disposable income.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any 
comments by 21 November 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
Novuna asked Mr H for his annual income when he applied. It says it verified this via the
credit reference agencies, concluding his monthly income would be £1,852.96. It asked
about his living arrangements  he lived with his parents - and so it estimated his monthly
living costs to be £786.94. It says it carried out a credit check that showed he had £12,600 of
debt and monthly credit commitments of £728.35. It concluded with monthly disposable
income of around £377 he could afford the loan repayment of around £60.
Our adjudicator thought that given Mr H was already spending a high proportion of his
income on servicing his existing debt the loan might not be sustainably affordable, even
though it was on a pounds and pence basis.
Whilst that can be a reasonable conclusion in some sets of circumstances, Im not
persuaded that is the case here. Having thought carefully about the type of credit and Mr Hs
situation and I have reached a different conclusion, Ill explain why.
This was a short-term interest-free loan. Mr H was living with his parents. Novuna hasnt
sent the results of the credit search it completed but I have been able to look at Mr Hs credit
file as he supplied a copy. This shows whilst he had the debt Novuna refers to, there was no
adverse data at all on his file  he was up to date with all payments. He had no pay day
loans or similar, that might suggest financial stress. So I cant agree with Mr Hs comment
that he shouldnt have been given a high interest loan when he had financial difficulties. I
dont think there were any signs that this particular loan might be unaffordable, or in some
other way harmful, for Mr H.
It follows I dont think in the circumstances of this complaint that giving this interest-free loan
was wrong. Overall, I am satisfied the checks Novuna carried out were proportionate and
that it made a fair lending decision based on the results.
Novuna did not respond to the provisional decision. Mr Hs representative acknowledged 
receipt but did not submit any comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Novuna will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to
these complaints is set out on our website.
As neither party sent in any comments or new information in response to my provisional 
decision, I have no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out in it.
It follows I do not find Novuna was wrong to give this interest-free loan to Mr H.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman