DRN-3879615
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application that Mrs and Mr K made to Barclays Bank 
UK Plc. Mrs and Mr K say the application was rejected and unduly delayed. They bought 
their new house with a mortgage from a different lender, but this meant Barclays charged 
them an early repayment charge (ERC) when they paid off the existing mortgage.  The 
also missed out on the lower rate of Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT). Mrs and Mr K think 
that was unfair.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we 
investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question 
or issue thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the following conclusions.
No one is entitled to borrow money, even where theyve borrowed before. Any request to 
borrow again, including transferring an existing interest rate product to a new, bigger, 
mortgage on a different property, is a new lending decision for a lender, and is subject to 
its lending policy and criteria  and the consumers individual circumstances - as they 
stand at the time the request is made. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the 
context of an application for a new and larger mortgage, that means assessing it fairly in 
accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what mortgage 
regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally 
made public.
Here, the application wasnt successful for the full amount applied for because Barclays 
underwriters didnt consider Mrs and Mr Ks broader financial position to be strong 
enough to meet its affordability criteria, based on the information it had received about 
their incomes sources. Whatever debate there may have been about the format of the 
information, and how it was presented or interpreted, ultimately the underlying problem 
was that there wasnt enough income, in Barclays opinion, for it to be willing to lend the 
full amount. That was Barclays judgement to make, based on its lending criteria, and 
theres no reasonable basis for me to second-guess that judgement by substituting my 
own view on whether, to whom, and how much Barclays should lend.
Regarding how long it took, mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a 
mechanical process. Lenders generally have anticipated timescales for how long an 
application might take, but occasionally things take longer than expected. Eight weeks is 
generally considered to be a typical and reasonable time for a mortgage application to be 
assessed, and thats broadly how long it took here. Barclays has offered Mrs and Mr K 
£100 compensation for a short delay caused by a minor IT issue, and in itself that seem 
fair and proportionate to me. 
If Im to order Barclays to pay Mrs and Mr K the compensation theyre seeking, I have to 
be satisfied that it unduly and excessively delayed the application by way of specific 
errors or omissions, and that the delay was the sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial 
or non-financial, to Mrs and Mr K. Looking at the overall progression of the case, I dont 
find that this is such a case. Having looked at everything that both parties have said and 
provided, taking everything into account, I dont think Barclays decision on the new 
application was either unreasonable, or unduly delayed.
I fully appreciate why Mrs and Mr K would want to continue their house purchase by 
borrowing from another lender and repaying the Barclays mortgage. But they did that 
knowing theyd incur an ERC if they did. They also knew that by the time the purchase 
went through, the SDLT rates had changed. It might have been a choice between two 
unwelcome alternatives, but it was their choice to act as they did.
Mrs and Mr K dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mrs and Mr Ks right to take legal action against Barclays over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mrs and Mr K to decide 
whether they wish to accept Barclays offer of £100. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs and Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman