DRN-2051067
The complaint
Mr H  complains that Vitality Health Limited declined his claim against his travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr H has membership of a group, private medical and travel insurance policy via his 
employer. 
Mr H takes medication and his condition is monitored by his GP. He says that on                     
1 and 4 October 2019, his GP practice noted a high reading on his international normalised 
ratio (INR) blood test. Mr Hs medication was adjusted and his GP practice recommended a    
re-test in a week or so. 
Mr H says that he had a three-week trip to the USA planned. He travelled as planned and 
arranged an INR test in the USA for 11 October 2019. The test showed that Mr H had a low 
INR score. The overseas doctor adjusted Mr Hs medication and told him to have the test 
again in four or five days. Mr H contacted Vitality after the first test in the USA to tell it what 
had happened and to let it know that the overseas hospital had taken details of his insurance 
cover. 
On 17 October 2019, Vitality told Mr H that his claim wasnt covered under the policy, as the 
tests werent carried out as part of a medical emergency and were planned.  
Mr H had a second test in the USA which showed a still lower INR score. Mr Hs medication 
was adjusted again and he was advised to have a re-test in four days. The third test in the 
USA gave a satisfactory score. Mr H returned home as planned three days later and 
pursued the complaint.   
In response to Mr Hs complaint, Vitality reiterated that the treatment Mr H received abroad 
wasnt for an unforeseen medical emergency. Vitality said that Mr H was aware that hed 
need a follow-up test before he began his trip, so anything directly or indirectly related to the 
tests are excluded in the policy. 
Mr H says that Vitality should cover tests two and three in the USA. Thats because a low 
test result increases the risk of stroke and thrombosis and that was a completely different 
medical situation than that which was discovered in the UK before his trip. Mr H says that the 
low INR readings constitute a new medical emergency and treatment couldnt have waited 
until he returned to the UK. 
Mr H says that Vitalitys refusal to accept responsibility for his overseas medical costs was 
extremely stressful whilst he was on holiday. He wants Vitality to accept that it should pay 
the medical costs when the bills arrive. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that the treatment Mr H 
received wasnt an unforeseen emergency, so it wasnt covered by the plan. The investigator 
didnt agree that the tests in the USA werent connected to the test in the UK. She said that 
when medication is reviewed any adjustment isnt always right first time. She said that Mr H 
wasnt experiencing any symptoms and wasnt unwell. The investigator said that Mr Hs 
claim isnt covered  under the policy. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the low test result in the USA indicated a 
completely different medical situation to the high reading in the UK. Mr H said that if the 
situation hadnt been controlled, he would have been prevented from flying back to the UK 
on medical grounds. He said that its irrelevant that he wasnt yet suffering from the potential 
effects of a low INR reading and that its better for him and Vitality to prevent an incident 
rather than to suffer the effects of it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say: 
You can only claim under the section Overseas medical and other expenses of the benefit 
table in cases of emergency. By emergency, we mean you need immediate medical 
treatment that the attending medical practitioner confirms cannot wait until you return to the 
UK. Non-urgent cases that can reasonably be delayed should wait until you return to the 
UK.
OVERSEAS MEDICAL AND OTHER EXPENSES
WHATS COVERED
Charges for emergency in-patient hospital treatment.
We will not pay for:
[]
Claims arising from circumstances which could reasonably have been foreseen 
before you arranged or started your holiday or business trip
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint because I dont think that Vitality treated him unfairly. I 
say that because:
Mr Hs claim arises from circumstances which were foreseen before he started his 
holiday. Before his departure from the UK, Mr Hs GP practice told him that he 
needed a re-test. The purpose of the re-test was to check the result and, if it wasnt  
in order, to adjust medication and re-test again. So, tests two and three in the USA 
were reasonably foreseeable too. That means that Mr Hs claim is covered by the 
exclusion Ive set out above. I dont think that Vitality treated Mr H unfairly in relying 
on that exclusion. 
In addition, the policy covers emergency, in-patient hospital treatment. Based on 
what Ive seen, no medical practitioner said that Mr H needed emergency, in-patient hospital treatment. The tests were planned and routine. Mr Hs travel cover isnt a 
private medical insurance policy for non-emergency treatment overseas. 
I note what Mr H says about the dangers of a low INR score and I can quite 
understand why hed want to follow medical advice and be re-tested before flying 
home. But that doesnt mean that the tests are covered under Mr Hs travel policy.     
Mr H says its better for him and Vitality to prevent an incident rather than to suffer 
the effects of it. But his travel policy doesnt cover preventative treatment. 
I dont doubt that this was stressful for Mr H, but there are no grounds on which to 
direct Vitality to deal with his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman