DRN-4301803
The complaint
Mrs B complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) about the poor service she 
experienced, following a claim under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs B held a home emergency policy with BG for several years. She noted that her boiler 
had broken down and made a claim. BG sent the first engineer who noticed that the boiler 
hadnt had an annual service. He carried out an annual service and said that he had fixed 
the issue with the boiler. 
After he had left Mrs B attempted to operate the boiler, but it just showed error messages 
instead. She contacted BG who sent a further engineer. During the course of the repair, he 
reported to Mrs B that the heat exchanger was corroded, which led to a leak due to sludge 
being present. Mrs B describes that engineer, showing her a large amount of sludge that he 
removed. 
The engineer also discovered that the boiler case was damaged and as a result, condemned 
the boiler. This meant that Mrs B was unable to have heating or hot water from the boiler. 
And the engineer didnt check that Mrs Bs emersion heater was connected, to keep hot 
water on in the meantime. 
Mrs B found an independent engineer who attended and connected the emersion. That 
engineer also provided Mrs B with a new quote for a new boiler. BG contacted Mrs B to offer 
to replace the boiler at a discounted rate and much quicker than the independent engineer, 
but Mrs B refused this service and raised a complaint. 
During the complaint she also pointed out that she had had annual services before and been 
a customer of BG for many years. She felt that BG ought to have picked up on the issues 
with her boiler much sooner, especially as she had been left without heating and hot water. 
She also explained that she had instructed a third-party engineer to connect the emersion 
and provide a new boiler.  
In its final response, BG apologised for the poor service issues she had experienced. It 
offered and paid £102.95  which were the costs incurred by Mrs B for the connection of the 
emersion heater. It also offered £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Mrs B 
had been given her referral rights and as she remained unhappy with the resolution, she 
referred a complaint to our service. She wanted BG to pay for the cost of a new boiler, as 
she felt it should have identified the issues with her boiler much earlier, than it did. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His 
view was that Mrs B had experienced poor service from BG. But the £100 compensation 
offered was fair and reasonable. He also said that previously Mrs B had been advised to 
upgrade her heating system, which she didnt do. And because her boiler at the time was 
over 10 years old, her policy didnt cover for a replacement. He further found that BG had 
been fair to offer a replacement boiler at a discount and quicker than the third-party engineer 
could install one. So, there was nothing further he could recommend that BG do. 
BG accepted the view, Mrs B did not. She disputed that there had been anything previously 
wrong with her boiler and pointed out that when it was serviced just before it broke down, it 
was given a clean bill of health. She said that had she been previously told that it needed an 
upgrade she wouldve done so. She said she was upset by BGs actions, she felt that its 
main concern was to quote and supplier her a new boiler, rather than repair her existing 
boiler. She also pointed out that its engineer failed to connect her to the emersion heater. 
So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs B, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
BG and Mrs B agree that she was provided with poor service. The service she received from 
the first engineer it sent was below standard, primarily due to the failure of him ensuring that 
Mrs Bs emersion heater was connected, so that Mrs B was able to have hot water. I can see 
that the independent engineer that Mrs B instructed, eventually connected the emersion 
heater, at a cost of £102.95. BG has reimbursed this cost, which I think is fair. So, for this 
there is nothing further that I can reasonably recommend it to do. 
In addition to the reimbursement, BG recognised the impact of its error on Mrs B and offered 
and paid compensation of £100, for the trouble and upset this caused. Having reviewed our 
strict guidelines on compensation awards, Im satisfied that the error caused Mrs B more 
than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might reasonably expect from day-today-
life. And that the impact was more than just minimal. Therefore, I think the £100 offered is 
fair and in line with our awards for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ive next considered whether BG ought to pay for a new boiler. Mrs B said that had she been 
previously aware that her boiler needed to be upgraded, she wouldve done so. She also 
said that BG at no time made her aware that there were potential issues with her boiler. She 
pointed out that before it broke down, it had been serviced and there were no issues raised 
with her. 
BG said that during an annual service the boiler is not taken apart and this would have been 
a way to have seen whether there was sludge in the system. It said that when the boiler 
broke down, what was found was corrosion to the heat exchanger, which caused a leak. The 
leak was caused by the presence of sludge. 
I have reviewed the work records, which are completed by the engineer contemporaneously, 
after a visit has occurred. In addition, Mrs B provided me with two previous BG engineers 
reports, that detailed what was found following an annual service. Apart from two occasions, 
when it is mentioned that a filter was cleaned, I cant see that BG previously advised Mrs B 
that her system would need to be upgraded. I note that on one of the engineers report, this 
did advise in 2022, about the age of Mrs Bs boiler, but nothing further is indicated on the 
paperwork. I asked BG to explain why on previous annual services, the build-up of sludge wasnt 
advised to Mrs B. It explained that during annual services, boilers are not routinely 
dismantled. When its engineer attended at that time, all elements that were checked during a 
boiler service were passed. But it appears that following on from the annual service, the 
boiler broke down due to the failure of the heat exchanger, that ultimately caused a leak, 
corrosion, and the presence of sludge. In addition, the age of Mrs Bs boiler was far in 
excess of 15 years old, and this too wouldve been a factor. 
I havent been provided with enough evidence from Mrs B that refutes what BG has said. I 
think its likely had there been significant sludge in the system, the functionality of the boiler 
and radiators wouldve been affected. I think in this complaint, the boiler was clearly affected 
as it leaked, there was corrosion, and the heat exchanger was damaged. I cant say when 
this wouldve occurred, but I do agree that during an annual service, it is unlikely that this 
wouldve been picked up, unless there was some other issue with the system. 
Consequently, although I accept there wasnt any prior notice given to Mrs B about an 
upgrade to her system, I dont think that BG were at fault, as the issue with Mrs Bs boiler 
presented just before the second engineer attended. 
I understand that Mrs B would like BG to reimburse the costs she incurred in replacing her 
boiler. So, Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions, to see what BGs obligations were 
under it. The policy states: 
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and:
  its less than seven years old; or
  its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously covered by 
us under either a warranty or Home Care product.
Mrs Bs boiler at the time was in excess of 15 years old. The average lifespan of a boiler is 
between 8-10 years. The policy that Mrs B held didnt provide cover for a boiler replacement 
at all, given the age of her boiler. So, I dont think its reasonable or fair for BG to be asked to 
contribute or reimburse Mrs Bs costs, as the policy she held, provided no cover for this. 
I note that BG offered Mrs B a discounted boiler and to install it within a reasonable 
timeframe. But I can understand why Mrs B declined BGs offer. 
I do find for the service failings that the amount of compensation offered is fair and in  line 
with our services guidance on compensation awards. So, I wont be asking BG to increase 
this further. I also think that its fair for BG to have reimbursed Mrs Bs costs regarding the 
failure of the first engineer to adequately deal with the emersion heater. 
I acknowledge Mrs Bs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why she 
referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that BG acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman