DRN-4160007
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) has treated them unfairly 
when they attempted to secure a new fixed rate on their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage.  
What happened
Mr A called TMW to discuss how to switch the product rate on the BTL mortgage in April 
2022. TMW accepts that it provided incorrect information about the process available to Mr 
and Mrs A based on the mortgage they had. It directed them to completing an application 
online when this wasnt available to them  instead a postal application needed to be made.
Mr A called TMW again in May 2022 and explained he was looking to speak with the 
mortgage product transfer team. The department he spoke with at this point provided a 
telephone number for account services and asked Mr A to call this team as the area able to 
help with his questions. No mention was made about any issues with being able to complete 
the rate switch online.
In September 2022, Mr A called to TMW again. At this point Mr A was told he wouldnt be 
able to complete an online application because the mortgage was sold by another lender 
before being taken over by TMW. The adviser explained what Mr A would need to do to 
switch the mortgage, including directing him to send in a completed application form.
Mr and Mrs A completed the application form and their mortgage rate was switched from 1 
November 2022. A complaint was raised as Mr and Mrs A feel theyve been disadvantaged 
by TMW giving them incorrect information during their initial call. As a result they feel the 
interest rate available to them is higher as they werent able to switch the mortgage sooner 
when trying to do this online.
TMW looked into the complaint and apologised for giving incorrect information in April 2022. 
It didnt agree it needed to offer a back dated rate because Mr and Mrs A didnt contact them 
again until September 2022 to explain they were having issues with completing the switch. 
So it wasnt aware of the mistake or the impact it was having until this point.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think TMW needed to do anything else. 
As TMW had, he agreed an error had been made but it was the later actions of Mr and 
Mrs A which led him to believe TMW didnt need to do anything else. He felt because the 
mortgage was a BTL, it was reasonable to believe that any issues with the mortgage would 
be raised within a reasonable timeframe. So when Mr and Mrs A couldnt complete the 
application online, he expected this to be highlighted to TMW sooner. It wasnt until it was 
highlighted that TMW was able to explain what was needed. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our investigator. The said they had called TMW before 
September 2022 and hadnt been given the correct information. Our investigator said he had 
listened to the May 2022 phone call and didnt think Mr A had explained there was an issue 
with the rate switch online. And if Mr A had called TMW earlier in September  as there was 
call dates which TMW was unable to provide a recording for  he didnt think it changed the 
outcome. This was in the same month as when it provided the correct information and he 
didnt think it impacted what Mr and Mrs A might have got.
Mr and Mrs A maintained that they disagreed with the outcome and asked for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
appreciate this isnt the answer Mr and Mrs A are hoping for, but Ill explain why Ive reached 
this decision. 
There is no dispute that TMW provided incorrect information in April. The issue is whether it 
would be reasonable to expect TMW to offer a back dated interest rate as a result of this 
error. 
When TMW told Mr and Mrs A theyd need to complete a rate switch application online, it put 
the onus on them to complete this and if there was an issue, highlight this to TMW. Mr A did 
call TMW in May 2022 and indicated he wanted to speak to the product transfer team, but 
after being given the telephone number of the team to call, he didnt call back. And although 
a brief call, with the line clearly not being great with both parties struggling to hear each 
other at times, Mr A didnt say he was having a problem that needed looking into. 
Mr and Mrs A have a BTL mortgage which is held on a property ran as a business. The 
interest rate and cost of this mortgage will have a direct impact on the business and its profit, 
and it is reasonable to expect that anything which is impacting this is raised as an issue in a 
reasonable time. Ultimately it is up to Mr and Mrs A to decide the urgency of this based on 
what they feel is needed. 
It wasnt until 27 September 2022 that Mr A called to discuss switching the rate on the 
mortgage and he was provided correct information about the process and the mortgage rate 
was switched in November 2022. As there was no meaningful contact or attempt made by 
Mr and Mrs A prior to this to try and switch the mortgage, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
TMW to do anything else. As Ive said the initial advice placed an onus on Mr and Mrs A to 
make the application and it wasnt until they attempted this that they could have been aware 
there was an issue. The call in May 2022 didnt highlight a problem and Mr and Mrs A didnt 
feel the need to do more with their BTL mortgage until September 2022. So while I agree a 
mistake was made, I cannot say I am persuaded this mistake was the reason why it took Mr 
and Mrs A as long as they did to apply to switch their BTL rate. It follows that based on this, 
it wouldnt be fair to ask TMW to offer a retrospective rate.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman