DRN-3520854
The complaint
Representatives on behalf of the estate of the late Mr D have complained that Lloyds Bank 
Plc wont investigate alleged fraud on Mr Ds account dating back to 2008, and theyve 
declined to pay the fees for representation.
What happened
The late Mr D held a number of accounts with Lloyds over the years. He sadly passed away 
in 2020. Mr D2 was appointed as the executor of the estate. Due to personal difficulties he 
was facing Mr D2 appointed Mr P as a probate assistant, and to help manage the estate.
Mr P says he had difficulties dealing with Lloyds, as they often didnt speak to him despite 
having a letter of authority. He often had to send the same information in several times. He 
and Mr D2 believed that fraud had occurred on the account in 2008 but didnt receive 
statements when he asked for them. He says the communication was contradictory and 
inconsistent, which led to delays in probate being granted. And Lloyds didnt look into the 
alleged fraud. Mr D2 and Mr P raised a complaint with Lloyds about these issues and asked 
for the costs associated with hiring Mr P to be paid.
Lloyds looked into what happened and agreed that they had provided a poor service. They 
agreed to pay Mr D2 £500 personally. They also said theyd consider further costs. After 
receiving further information, they paid Mr D2 a further £500 compensation directly. But they 
declined to pay the costs, saying that they understood why Mr D2 found it difficult to deal 
with the estate, it was ultimately his choice to pay Mr P for support for the management of 
the estate. They declined to pay Mr Ps invoice.
Unhappy with this, Mr P and Mr D2 referred the estates complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened.
She didnt think Lloyds should be liable for paying Mr Ps invoices. She said it was rare that 
our service would ask a bank to pay a third partys fees, unless the bank suggested or 
required it. She felt it was the estates choice to hire Mr P, and as such it wouldnt be fair to 
ask the bank to pay for it.
But She accepted that the service provided to the estate wasnt up to standard and had an 
effect on the running of the estate. She noted that compensation had been paid to Mr D2 for 
the impact on him personally, but not to the estate for the disruption the delays and poor 
service had caused.
Lastly, she received the statements the estate had requested, and passed them on. She 
asked Lloyds whether they would investigate the alleged fraud. They declined to do so, citing 
that as a policy they dont investigate transactions which took place over 13 months ago. 
They said that 2008 would be well outside the timescales they would be able to effectively 
investigate. 
The investigator thought this was fair. She explained that banks arent obliged to retain 
information forever, and she felt it unlikely that it would be possible to conduct a fair 
investigation into transactions that took place in 2008. She said Lloyds policy of not 
investigating after 13 months was in line with the relevant regulations. She also said that 
generally we would like to speak to the account holder to understand how fraud may have 
occurred, but this wouldnt be possible in this case. She didnt think Lloyds needed to do 
anything further here.
However, in recognition of the disruption and inconvenience she suggested Lloyds pay the 
estate £300 compensation.
Lloyds accepted this outcome. Mr P on behalf of the estate rejected the outcome, saying that 
they couldnt have reported the fraud earlier as they did not have the statements. 
Because no agreement could be reached that case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I accept both Mr P and Mr D2 feel very strongly about this complaint and have been 
considerably distressed by Lloyds actions. I know Lloyds has paid Mr D2 a considerable 
sum of compensation to reflect this. 
But under the rules of our service, the complaint arises out of Lloyds actions in relation to 
the late Mr Ds estate. The eligible complainant here is the estate, and I can only consider 
the losses and impact of Lloyds actions on the estate.
Which that in mind Im satisfied Lloyds made the running of the estate much more difficult 
that it needed to be  and Lloyds have now accepted as much. There was a lack of 
communication from Lloyds to the representatives of the estate, or explanation of what 
information they needed to add Mr P as a representative, that certainly contributed to delays 
in dealing with the estate. The estate had to request certain information repeatedly before it 
was provided with Lloyds. This made the running of the estate considerably more 
inconvenient  so on that basis I think it reasonable that Lloyds directly compensate the 
estate.
Having considered the impact on the estate, and the delays caused, Im satisfied that an 
amount of £300 suggest is reasonable.
Ive carefully considered the estates request to pay Mr Ps fees. Generally, it would be up to 
the executor of the estate to decide whether they needed help and support in managing the 
estate. As it would be a decision for the estate, it would then by up to the estate to pay any 
fees or charges associated with this.
From what Mr D2 has told us about her personal circumstances, I can understand why he 
felt that he would need help to manage the estate. But I also think this means its likely he 
would always have needed to seek help to do so, rather than because they were caused by 
Lloyds. Mr P was appointed before many of the issues with Lloyds arose  the major 
problem initially was getting Mr P set up as a representative on the complaint. And Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the bank suggested or recommended the estate seek third-party 
representation. 
I sympathise with situation Mr D2 was in, and the issues he has faced. But Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair to ask Lloyds to pay for any third-party fees the estate has 
incurred because of this.Lloyds have declined to investigate an alleged fraud that took place in 2008, saying that it 
was too long ago for them to effectively investigate. I see this as a reasonable position to 
take.
Lloyds policy is not to look into disputes involving transactions that took place over thirteen 
months ago  which is in line with the relevant regulations. There may be good reasons to 
set this aside on occasion, but Im also mindful that the longer it is past the transaction, the 
less likely relevant information would be available to carry out any investigation  such as 
authorisation records, testimony from bank staff, system notes and the like. 
In this case the allegation is about potential transactions that took place fourteen years ago, 
which is far longer than Id reasonably expect a bank to hold these records. Its unlikely a 
reasonable investigation could be carried out.
Im also mindful that the most relevant evidence for any fraud investigation would come from 
Mr D, and for obvious reasons hes no longer able to provide this. Ive seen nothing to 
indicate he made the bank aware of any concerns about fraud in the twelve years between 
2008 and when he passed away.
Having reviewed the account statements I can see nothing that looks like the allegation Mr P 
is making of a £40,000 loss. So, Im satisfied Lloyds need to take no further action here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay the estate of the late Mr D1 £300 to 
reflect the inconvenience caused by their poor communication and delays.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman