DRN-2197772
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about the service hes received from IG Markets Limited (IG) with regards 
to stock that hes tried to sell.  
Hes unhappy about the lack of information provided, the charges applied and the general 
way that hes been dealt with.  
What happened
In my provisional decision of 18 September 2020, which forms part of this, my final decision, 
I said I was minded to partially uphold the complaint. I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance I dont think the compensation offered by IG for 
its call handling and failure to call back is reasonable in the circumstances. I think it should 
offer another £100 compensation in addition to the £100 already offered by the business, 
plus a full refund of custody fees if it hasnt done so already. 
 
IG responded and said:
The £200 value is ultimately the Ombudsmans opinion of what is reasonable, so I do not 
think that arguing the value would be of benefit. We do not therefore have any additional 
information to provide at this stage.
Mr G also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, he said:
Hes referred the case to the independent assessor but isnt very hopeful. 
Our judgement is flawed, and he very much disagrees with it. 
He considers my proposed redress insulting.
IG continue to hide behind its portal and my decision is a greenlight for companies 
like IG to let down customers.
Hes instructed IG to close his trading account immediately. 
My decision is more about protecting the investigator and the ombudsman who dealt 
with the service complaint, than about holding IG to account. I too have been biased 
in favour of IG and have cherry picked my response. 
Ive not talked about IGs lack of activity about flipping the shares. 
Apart from failing him at every juncture, IG only contacted him to say it was happy to 
talk to him. 
The whole process has been a waste of time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, considering the responses from the parties, my conclusion regarding the 
partial uphold remains as set out previously, and for the same reasons. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance I still dont think the compensation offered by IG 
for its call handling and failure to call Mr M back is reasonable in the circumstances. I think it 
should offer another £100 compensation in addition to the £100 it has already offered plus a 
full refund of custody fees relating to Pareteum Corporation, if it hasnt done so already.
In this instance, notwithstanding what Mr M says, I dont consider that any new points have 
been raised, other than those key points already made and considered by me in my 
provisional decision. In other words, Ive considered all the points that I consider relevant to 
my decision. 
Im really very sorry Mr M feels like the whole process has been a waste of time. I assure 
him that Ive not been biased towards IG and thats why Ive partially upheld the complaint. 
Putting things right
I think IG Markets Limited should pay Mr M £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and refund the custody fees, if it hasnt done so already.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold this 
complaint. 
IG Markets Limited should pay redress as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman