DRN-3088507
The complaint
Ms K complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold her a Mortgage and Family Protector 
policy.
What happened
In April 2003, Ms K took out a Mortgage and Family Protector policy following discussions 
with a representative from Zurich who also arranged her mortgage. The policy was set up 
with a sum assured of £65,000 for a term of 25 years, with a monthly premium of £23.62.
The plan also included payment protection benefit of £650 a month which could pay out the 
event that Ms K was unable to work through sickness or disability for longer than six months.
Ms K later complained that Zurich had mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI). She 
said Zurich hadnt made it clear that the policy was optional, and she felt pressured into 
taking out. She said she also wasnt made aware of the commission that was made. 
Zurich explained that the purpose of the policy was to provide critical illness protection, life 
cover and payment protection benefit (PPB). It said that PPB wasnt the same as PPI and 
the plan didnt include PPI. Zurich said it believed its recommendation to implement the 
policy was reasonable taking into account Ms Ks circumstances.
 
Ms K remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. Ms K asked for the 
complaint to be escalated, so it was passed to me to decide. 
Following this, I established that Ms K had a capital and interest repayment mortgage. I 
asked Zurich why it had recommended a level term assurance (LTA) policy to Ms K rather 
than a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy as I thought a DTA would have been more 
appropriate. Zurich said that it didnt offer a DTA product when the plan was recommended. 
But it was willing to refund Ms K the difference in cost between the LTA and DTA, based on 
the assumption that a DTA would have cost her 33% less. It was also willing to add interest 
at 8% simple per year to the amount refunded. 
I let Ms K know what Zurich had proposed and told her I thought it was a fair way to resolve 
her complaint. Ms K said she would like a final decision as she strongly believed the policy 
had been mis-sold. She said she has no such policy attached to her current mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ks complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Ms K says the Zurich adviser didnt make it clear that the policy was optional. I havent got 
any notes to show me what might have been discussed at the time of sale. But Zurich has 
provided a copy of the key features document it says Ms K would have been given at the 
time. This says:
You can change your mind within 30 days from when you get your plan documents If you 
decide for any reason that you dont want the plan, well give you your money back.
So, I think Zurich is likely to have made Ms K aware that the policy was optional, because it 
says she could cancel for any reason if she decided she didnt want it. I also havent seen 
anything else that suggests she was required to take out the plan as a condition of her 
mortgage. 
Ms K has mentioned feeling pressured to take out the policy. The Zurich adviser might have 
told Ms K it was a good idea to take out the policy and advised her of the potential 
consequences of not having cover in place. But I havent seen strong enough evidence to 
conclude that she was pressured into buying it. 
Zurich recommended the policy to Ms K so it should have taken steps to ensure it was 
suitable for her, based on her circumstances. Zurich says the adviser wasnt required to 
complete a fact find or reason for recommendation letter. I also havent seen anything else to 
show me what might have been discussed with Ms K at the time. 
If Ms K had passed away or become critically ill while the policy was in place, the amount 
paid out would have been enough to cover her mortgage. If Ms K had been unable to work 
due to long term sickness, the PPB could have provided her with additional income. Ms Ks 
mortgage was a significant and long term commitment and the consequences of not being 
able to meet her repayments if her circumstances had changed could have been very 
serious. So, I think the policy could have been useful for Ms K and would have given her 
peace of mind.
Given that Ms K had a capital and interest repayment mortgage, I think a DTA would have 
been more appropriate than an LTA. With a DTA the amount of cover would have decreased 
as the amount outstanding on the lending decreased, meaning that Ms K wouldnt have had 
to pay for extra cover she didnt need. I appreciate Zurich might not have sold DTAs at the 
time, but I havent seen any evidence to show that the difference between a DTA and an 
LTA was explained to Ms K. If Zurich had done so, Ms K may have decided to purchase a 
DTA from another provider. So, I think its fair for Zurich to refund Ms K the difference 
between the monthly premium she paid for her LTA and the amount she would have paid for 
an equivalent DTA (plus interest at 8% simple per year). Zurich has offered to do this based 
on the assumption that a comparable DTA would have cost her 33% less and I think this is 
fair.
 
Ms K has also complained that she wasnt informed about the commission that would be 
made and has asked for this to be returned to her. Zurich says the adviser was paid a fee, 
but this was done from Zurichs own overheads and didnt constitute a separate deduction or 
charge on the plan. I havent seen any evidence to show that this isnt correct and Ive no 
reason to doubt what Zurich has said about this. So, Ms Ks comments regarding this 
havent made a difference to the conclusions Ive reached.
Putting things right
I think a DTA would have been more appropriate for Ms K than an LTA. So, Zurich should:Refund Ms K the difference in cost between the LTA and DTA, based on the 
assumption that the DTA would have cost her 33% less, and
Add interest at 8% per year* from the date the premiums were paid until the date of 
the settlement. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zurich to deduct tax from this interest. Zurich should give Ms K 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman