DRN-2982732
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains about delays in obtaining a Bounce Back Loan 
from HSBC UK Bank PLC.
Bs director, Ms M, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
B banked with HSBC and wanted to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan. Ms M first 
applied on 12 May 2020. The bank approved this application and issued a loan offer. But 
Ms M noticed that shed made a mistake and wanted to borrow a larger amount. So she 
made a further application on 22 May.
Ms M chased things up with HSBC over the weeks that followed but  with no answer on the 
second application  she raised a complaint on 23 June about the time it was taking to 
obtain the loan. When the bank responded on 31 July, it said that it had already issued an 
offer but that this had now expired and so Ms M would need to reapply.
Ms M made a further application on 1 September, which was approved and the loan funds 
were drawn down into Bs account that day.
Unhappy with the delay in obtaining the loan, Ms M referred her complaint to us. While it was 
with us, HSBC offered B compensation of £150 for any inconvenience it had been caused 
during the application process. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and thought the banks offer was fair. While noting 
that Ms M would also have been caused some distress personally, she explained that we 
could only award compensation to B in response to its complaint. And for the inconvenience 
it had been caused, she thought £150 was fair. 
Ms M didnt accept our investigators view. She thought that HSBC should also pay 
compensation for the distress shed suffered in her personal capacity. So she asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC initially dealt with Bs application swiftly. It was reviewed and approved within a matter 
of days, and a loan offer was issued. This was in line with the expectations under the rules of 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Ms M then realised that shed made an error in the first 
application and so wished to apply for a higher amount. She did so on 22 May 2020 but the 
loan wasnt drawn down until 1 September 2020.
Ive looked at what happened during that period, taking into account what Ms M and HSBC 
have said and provided to us. The records of Bs applications are somewhat limited and 
ultimately, I cant see exactly what happened with the second application that Ms M 
submitted on 22 May. HSBC says that this was approved and that a loan offer was issued  
but the records its provided dont show that. And I think its unlikely that Ms M wouldve 
overlooked the correspondence if it had been sent to her  given that she received 
everything else and was clearly keen to obtain the funds as soon as possible. I can also see 
that Ms M was in touch with HSBC a number of times through June and July 2020, so if it 
had actually issued another loan offer then I would expect it to have told her  which I cant 
see that it did.
Ms M was ultimately required to submit a third application. From what Ive seen, I think this is 
most likely down to an error by the bank in how it dealt with the second application. 
I appreciate that at the time of Bs application, HSBC was dealing with the significant impact 
of the pandemic as well as the unprecedented level of demand for borrowing under the 
government-backed loan schemes. But B was entitled to expect its application to be 
assessed quickly  and I think there was an unreasonable delay of around two months. 
While waiting, Ms M contacted the bank on a number of occasions to chase things up. 
Taking all of this into account, I think it would be fair for Barclays to compensate B for the 
inconvenience it was caused by delays on the banks part. To that end, I think the £150 that 
HSBC has now offered is fair compensation. 
I know Ms M doesnt think that £150 is sufficient. She says that the delay in getting the loan 
also caused her  in her personal capacity  anxiety and stress. But while I appreciate that 
the matter may well have had an impact on her too, I cant direct HSBC to pay her any 
compensation in response to this complaint. While Ms M also holds accounts with HSBC 
and therefore has a customer relationship with it, the complaint at issue here doesnt arise 
out of that relationship. Rather, it arises from Bs relationship with the bank  and so, under 
our rules, B is the eligible complainant  not Ms M, even as its director  and is therefore the 
only party to which I can award compensation. 
As a limited company cant suffer distress, it is only a matter of deciding fair compensation 
for the inconvenience caused to B by the delays in progressing its application. And for that, I 
think £150 is fair for the reasons Ive explained above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank PLC to pay B compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman