DRN-4300943
The complaint
Miss J has complained that Hugh James Solicitors (Hugh James), gave her unsuitable 
advice to transfer her defined benefits from her occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Miss Js employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
Miss J met with an adviser from Hugh James on 2 October 2017 to discuss her retirement 
planning needs and, in particular, her BSPS entitlement.
Hugh James completed a fact find analysis to establish Miss Js circumstances and financial 
objectives. An assessment of Miss Js attitude to risk determined Miss Js risk appetite was 
balanced.
Miss J was aged 47 and due to get married to her partner. She was employed, earning 
£43,000 pa.
Miss J had no debts, a home worth £170,000 and cash savings of £49,000. She had two 
pension arrangements - her preserved BSPS entitlement with a transfer value of £396,106 
guaranteed until 22 December 2017, and the defined contribution arrangement, set up in 
April 2017, which was receiving employer and employee contributions totalling 20% of her 
salary.
At retirement (at age 65) Miss Js deferred defined benefit pension would provide an income 
of £26,836 pa with the option to take tax free cash and a reduced income.
The benefits if she transferred to the PPF were £21,032 pa at age 65, again with the option 
to take tax free cash and a reduced income.
A transfer value analysis (TVAS) had been undertaken to show the level of investment 
growth required in order to replace the benefits under the BSPS and the PPF at age 65. This 
was the critical yield, which was calculated as follows:
To match the BSPS benefits at age 65, a transfer would have a critical yield of 6.09%.
To match the PPF benefits at age 65, a transfer would have a critical yield of 4.35%.
Hugh James issued a suitability report dated 19 October 2017. Hugh James recommended 
that Miss J transfer the defined benefits to a Prudential Retirement Account and invest 50% 
into the Prufund Cautious and 50% into the Prufund Growth.
Hugh James noted Miss J had the following objectives, which formed the basis of its reasons 
for recommending the transfer:
The option to retire at age 55 with an income of £1,500 a month.
To take control of her pension.
Take advantage of the enhanced transfer value.
To have the option to decide how death benefits are paid.
Miss J had concerns overs the existing schemes financial viability.
She would like flexibility on how to take benefits at retirement.
Miss J accepted Hugh Jamess recommendation and the transfer took place on 24 October 
2017. The amount transferred was £396,106.
Miss J complained to Hugh James on 26 April 2022 raising concerns that the advice was 
unsuitable following contact from the FCA about this. 
Hugh James declined to uphold Miss Js complaint, saying that it had conducted a loss
assessment in line with the regulators guidance and this showed that shed suffered no loss. 
This service put the no loss outcome to Miss J, but she indicated that she didnt accept 
this. As such, the investigator proceeded to assess the matter. 
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The critical yield to match the scheme benefits at age 65 was 6.07%, although the 
suitability report quoted this as being 6.77% (and 15.19% to age 55). The discount 
rate for 22 years to retirement was 4.5% and, taking into account Miss Js attitude to 
risk, along with the regulators low, mid and high band growth projections of 2%, 5% 
and 8% respectively, it was unlikely that the scheme benefits could be bettered 
through transferring. The critical yields were unlikely to be achievable.
The available evidence didnt support the position that Miss J had either the desire or 
capacity to exercise personal control over her pension fund.
Miss J may have had concerns about the prospects for the BSPS, but these 
concerns should have been managed and addressed by Hugh James.
In terms of the death benefits, although the prospect of a lump sum might have 
seemed appealing, the priority of pension benefits was to provide retirement security 
for the individual rather than act as a kind of life assurance plan. And Hugh James 
didnt do enough to establish to what extent Miss J was willing to accept lower overall 
benefits in retirement for the sake of the lump sum death benefit. And the size of any 
lump sum post retirement would in any case depend upon the amount remaining 
after Miss Js withdrawals.
Life assurance should have been explored further if an additional lump sum was 
required in the short term.
Although Miss J may have found the prospect of retiring early appealing, this should 
have been subject to an anlysisis of whether or not this was in fact feasible. Further, 
the suitability report set out that Miss J would be able to retire early through the 
scheme, but it didnt say why she preferred to put her pension funds at risk. The file 
didnt clearly evidence as to why Miss J wanted to retire at 55, but if she did, she 
should have been advised to transfer to the BSPS 2 to do so.
As Miss J was 47 at the time of the advice, it would in any case have been difficult to 
anticipate what her expected expenditure would be in retirement. This would make 
the decision to transfer hard to justify. And Miss J didnt need to make the irreversible 
decision to transfer with so many years left to retirement.
A further reason for transferring was that Miss J wished to take advantage of the 
enhanced transfer value on offer. But although the CETV may have been lower in the 
future, this would only impact Miss J if she decided to transfer at a later date. And 
any concerns Miss J had about a lower CETV in the future could have been 
countered by such scheme attributes as zero running costs and guaranteed future 
growth.
The investigator recommended that Hugh James undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints.
But the investigator also noted the regulators consultation on a revised methodology and 
enquired of Miss J as to whether, if the complaint was upheld, her preference would be to 
have a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, or to await the new methodology 
for defined benefit transfer redress calculations.He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Miss Js pension plan, but if 
this wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Miss J, with a notional deduction for the 
(assumed basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
In response, Hugh James representative expressed surprise that a view had been set out 
on the merits of the case when Hugh James had already conducted a loss assessment 
which had determined a no loss outcome. 
It added that, if a subsequent loss assessment indicated a position of loss, it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable to require Hugh James to compensate Miss J when she could have mitigated 
that loss.
However, it said that, if Miss J confirmed that she would like the calculation rerun on the 
basis of the new methodology, it would do so and Hugh James would consider a further offer 
on the basis of that outcome.
Miss J confirmed that she would like the loss assessment to be calculated in line with the 
new methodology.
There followed some considerable correspondence relating to the position of Hugh Jamess 
representative that, as the loss calculation had determined a no loss position, the case 
should be dismissed, and Miss Js position that she wasnt persuaded that she in fact been 
caused no loss.
The investigator confirmed to both parties that, as agreement couldnt be reached on the 
matter, it would be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
Hugh Jamess representative disagreed, however, saying that it wasnt appropriate or 
necessary for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. And if it was referred to an 
ombudsman, it didnt think it should be published. It said the following in summary:
By the time the investigator had issued her view, Hugh James had already 
undertaken a loss calculation in accordance with FG17/9 and determined that Miss J 
had suffered no loss.
Once Miss J had confirmed that she wished to have the calculation rerun under the 
updated methodology, this was done in June 2023. A copy of the calculation was 
provided, and as no further comments were received relating to this, it was assumed 
that it had been accepted that it was accurate.
In accordance with DISP 3.5.1R, this service should attempt to resolve complaints at 
the earliest possible stage by whatever means appear to be the most appropriate.
As the complaint had already been considered by the investigator, Miss J had 
accepted the outcome, and the calculation had been undertaken, there was no merit 
in considering the suitability of the transfer advice once more. Miss J had suffered no 
loss and Hugh James had complied with the investigators recommendation. The 
complaint should therefore be dismissed.
The investigator replied, saying that the points raised would be considered by an 
ombudsman.The investigator then contacted Hugh Jamess representative further, requesting that, as 
more than three months had by then elapsed, it provide an updated loss calculation using 
the BSPS-specific calculator. If this showed no loss, the investigator added, then he would 
check it and engage with Miss J to try to resolve the matter without the need for it to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
The representative commented further on this as follows:
There was no reasonable rationale for an ombudsman to consider the matter. If the 
complaint was upheld at that stage, the result would be the same  a BSPS-specific 
calculation, but with a no loss outcome.
In the unlikely event that a future loss calculation determined a loss, Hugh James 
couldnt be held responsible for this. Once it had already determined a no loss 
position, it was up to Miss J to mitigate her position.
At no point had this service indicated that Hugh James should defer the calculation 
until an ombudsmans decision had been issued. As such, it had already undertaken 
the calculation, at not insignificant cost. And there was no suggestion that the 
calculation had been incorrect.
The complaint should be dismissed.
The investigator responded to say that either party has the option to request an 
ombudsmans decision if agreement hadnt been reached on the outcome. He also didnt 
think that the complaint fell within any of the grounds under which a complaint might be 
dismissed by this service.
The investigator said that, as it appeared that Hugh James was unwilling to provide an 
updated calculation, the matter would await referral to an ombudsman.
A new investigator then invited Hugh James once again to submit an updated calculation. 
And she also requested updated details from Miss J so that this could be undertaken.
Miss J provided the required details, but Hugh Jamess representative stated its strong 
disagreement with the way in which the case was being handled, saying the following in 
summary:
It had to be reasonably assumed that Miss J had accepted the investigators 
provisional assessment on the matter, hence her stating her preference for waiting 
for the updated redress methodology.
There had been no indication as to why Miss J was then deemed to have been in 
disagreement with the provisional assessment. And there was no provision under the 
DISP rules by which Miss J was able to withdraw her agreement on the basis that 
she didnt like the outcome of the calculation.
There was provision under the DISP rules for a complaint to be dismissed if the 
subject matter of a complaint had already been considered. This was the case here, 
and Miss J had accepted the outcome. No new material evidence had come to light 
which might affect the outcome and Hugh James had undertaken the calculation as 
directed by the investigator. The complaint had therefore been resolved.If the current position of this service was maintained, it would need to advise its 
clients in the future that it shouldnt offer to comply with an investigators 
recommendation at the provisional assessment stage and instead request an 
ombudsmans decision. This would be an unsatisfactory position.
As Miss J didnt respond to the investigators view within the specified time limits, this 
service didnt have the jurisdiction to consider her complaint afresh.
The representative also enquired as to the expertise of this service in being able to 
check the redress calculations, and why such checks werent done between June 
2023 (when the calculation was first sent to Miss J and October 2023)  and why 
inputs werent requested and deadlines explained so that Hugh James could make 
an informed decision as to whether it would incur the cost of undertaking the 
calculations.
It also enquired as to why checks couldnt now be undertaken on the previously 
supplied redress calculation from June 2023. If no issues could be identified, then the 
matter should be considered to be at an end.
Regarding the further request from the new investigator for an updated calculation, 
the representative had no confidence that if it complied this service would check it 
and, if Miss J again disagreed with the calculation outcome, a final decision would be 
issued promptly to avoid the need for a further calculation.
The investigators finding that Miss J would be worse off in retirement was 
undermined by the no loss outcome determined by the calculation. It was 
demonstrably not the case that Miss J would receive a lower level of benefits as a 
result of the transfer.
It wouldnt be appropriate for an ombudsmans decision to make any findings on the 
merits  rather this should simply refer to Hugh James having undertaken the 
calculation in accordance with the investigators recommendation and that this had 
determined a no loss outcome.
The investigator acknowledged the points made, but didnt feel that they amounted to 
grounds to dismiss Miss Js complaint. He said that an ombudsman would take into accounts 
the submissions.
The matter has now been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Jurisdiction and grounds for dismissal
Ive noted the comments relating to our jurisdiction to consider this matter, but I think there 
may be a fundamental misunderstanding of the factors which inform our jurisdiction to 
consider a complaint  or perhaps a confusion between this and the provisions under which 
we might dismiss a complaint. 
To clarify, the rules and provisions relating to jurisdiction focus on whether are able to 
consider the merits of a complaint, e.g. taking into account aspects such as timeliness and 
territorial scope. If those requirements are satisfied, a case is within our jurisdiction and 
cannot fall outside of our jurisdiction on the basis of the manner in which the case then 
progresses. And its a matter of this services discretion as to whether we continue to consider a complaint if a response hasnt been received within a particular timeframe 
following the issue of a provisional determination.
Consideration of whether a case should be dismissed (which I address further below) would 
only then follow once the matter of jurisdiction of whether we can consider a case has been 
decided. 
Ive noted the representatives assertion that, even if the matter was determined to fall with 
our jurisdiction, a decision shouldnt address the merits, but rather it should note that Hugh 
James followed the investigators recommendation, undertook the calculation, and 
determined a no loss position. 
But I think its worth noting Miss Js comments relating to the calculation. She did have some 
concerns relating to some of the assumptions being made, but her primary concern was that 
Hugh James didnt accept that the advice it had given was unsuitable. And she remained 
very concerned that shed left a safe defined benefit scheme on the advice of a business 
which would benefit financially from her decision to do so, both in terms of the initial advice 
fee and the ongoing charges. These charges, Miss J said, wouldnt have been applicable 
had she remained within the scheme.
I think this also addresses the representatives concerns over what it considers to have been 
the failure of this service to check the calculation undertaken in June 2023 and confirm the 
outcome to Miss J. The position was, and remains, that although Miss J confirmed her 
agreement with the investigators findings, she was concerned both at the position 
maintained by Hugh James that the advice was suitable, in addition to the outcome of the 
loss calculation.
Either party is entitled to request an ombudsmans decision if they disagree or have 
concerns with the outcome proposed within a provisional assessment, in this case as issued 
by the investigator. And Miss J clearly had concerns.
Id add that theres been a great deal of uncertainty and mistrust surrounding the issues 
relating to the BSPS transfers. Whilst I acknowledge the points made by the representative, I 
dont think a request to have the matter reviewed by an ombudsman, for final ratification and 
a decision on suitability which becomes binding on both parties if upheld and accepted by 
Miss J, is necessarily unreasonable in the circumstances. And whilst I understand the points 
being made about Miss J having initially accepted the investigators view on the matter, for 
the reasons given above I dont think this would represent a reasonable justification to 
dismiss the complaint.
Hugh Jamess representative has mentioned how it might advise its clients in the future on 
the basis of the handling of this type of case. This is of course entirely up to it, and we deal 
with individual cases, even though there may be similar outcomes deriving from similar sets 
of circumstances. As Ive said above, this is a very particular set of circumstances, in which 
a sense of uncertainty and mistrust has prevailed. 
For the reasons given, I therefore think its appropriate for me to consider the merits of this 
case.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Hugh James has previously offered to undertake the redress calculation, and hasnt 
provided a substantive response to the investigators assessment on the merits, Ill keep my 
commentary on the matter of suitability relatively brief. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Hugh James's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 specifically relate to a defined 
benefit pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a defined benefit scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
Hugh James should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Miss Js best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The TVAS report which Hugh James was required to carry out by the regulator said 
that the critical yield - how much Miss Js pension fund would need to grow by each 
year in order to provide the same benefits as her defined benefit scheme  was 
6.07% to match the pension shed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. 
The suitability report said that this was 6.77% - so higher still  and that required to 
match the scheme benefits at 55 was 15.19%.
Given this, along with the discount rate, and the regulators middle projection rate for 
growth (5% pa), I think at the time of the advice Hugh James ought to have 
appreciated that these yields were likely unachievable, year on year, to match the 
scheme benefits. Ive noted what Hugh Jamess representative has said about the 
no loss outcome of the calculation indicating that the transfer wouldnt mean that 
Miss J will be worse off due to the transfer. But Im considering the advice in the 
context of what was known at the time. And at the time, the indications were that 
Miss J was more likely than not to receive pension benefits, from age 55 or 65, of a 
lower value that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS 2 by transferring 
and investing in line with her balanced attitude to risk.As set out by the investigator, I also dont think the objective of control over Miss Js 
pension funds was well supported by her other circumstances, investment history 
(only cash savings recorded) or experience.
Miss J may have held concerns about the prospect of the BSPS. But it was Hugh 
Jamess role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all 
signs pointed toward the BSPS 2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still 
provided Miss J with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. 
At the time of the advice, Miss J was unlikely to improve on her scheme benefits by 
transferring. 
In terms of the alternative lump sum benefits a transfer offered to her family, the 
priority here was to advise Miss J about what was best for her retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension (Miss J was 
due to marry), that would have been valuable in the event of her death.
Early retirement may well have been appealing to Miss J, as it might reasonably be 
appealing to a great many people, but she had no clear or pressing plans to do so, 
which I think is understandable for a 47 year old. Miss Js circumstances may in any 
case have changed significantly between then and retirement. Any decision around 
early retirement or a need for flexibility of income could have been addressed nearer 
to her retirement date.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Miss Js best interest to 
relinquish her defined benefits and transfer them to a PPP. And I also havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Miss J would have insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in 
the defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Miss J received 
from Hugh James was unsuitable.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress calculator, I 
consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the BSPS-specific 
circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss J, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Ive noted above  and 
addressed  the comments of Hugh Jamess representative about the loss calculation 
previously undertaken. But this should be rerun, and on the basis that Miss J would have 
joined the BSPS 2. Miss J expressed a desire to retire early, in which case the reduction in 
benefits through joining the PPF may have been lower. But I dont think it could be 
reasonably concluded, given Miss Js age at the time, that this was more likely than not to 
ultimately be the case. As far as I can tell, Hugh James has also used the assumed 
retirement age of 65 in previous calculations.
So compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
Hugh James Solicitors must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules 
for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Hugh James Solicitors should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate 
the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Miss J and our service 
upon completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, it should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Miss Js
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Hugh James Solicitors should:
calculate and offer Miss J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Miss J before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the 
cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Miss J receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Miss J accepts the offer of Hugh James Solicitors to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Miss 
J for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Miss Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Miss J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, 
in line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Miss Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.Determination and money award: I require Hugh James Solicitors to pay Miss J the 
compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also 
recommend that Hugh James Solicitors pays Miss J the balance.
If Miss J accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Hugh James Solicitors.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Hugh James Solicitors. Further, its unlikely that 
Miss J could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss J may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Hugh James Solicitors to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman