DRN-2267778
The complaint
Mr R complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a motor insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr R has a car insurance policy with UKI. There is a further named driver on that policy.
Mr R made a claim after the named driver was involved in an accident. He says the named 
driver wasnt at fault, but UKI agreed to split the costs 50/50 with the third party insurer on a 
without prejudice basis.
Mr R made a complaint to UKI. He says they didnt consider the evidence properly, came to 
the wrong conclusion and shouldnt have settled the claim on that basis. He was also 
concerned about the delay in the claim being settled.
UKI didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. In their view, given the evidence available, a 50/50 
settlement was the appropriate outcome. So, Mr R brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He wants UKI to 
reinstate his no claims bonus and refund the excess he had to pay for the repairs to his car. 
Hes also worried about the impact of the accident on future premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important first of all to establish what Mr Rs policy says. In the Section about claims 
procedure, it says:
We are entitled to take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of 
any claim
This clause isnt unusual in motor insurance policies. And its not inherently unfair or 
unreasonable. Its important to remember that insurers have no interest in admitting liability 
(or part liability) on their customers behalf. Its the insurer after all who pays out.
On the face of it, that clause  which Mr R read, or should have read, before he bought the 
policy - allows UKI to settle a claim in whatever way they wish, whether or not the customer 
agrees with the outcome.
As I say, we dont think thats inherently unfair  and most motor policies include a similar 
clause with the same effect.
However, thats not to say UKI, or any other insurer, has free rein to arbitrarily decide 
whether to settle a third party claim. What were interested in, in this kind of case, is whether 
the insurer has considered all the evidence, taken into account all parties versions of events 
and come to a reasonable, logical conclusion based on the information available.
The named driver says the accident occurred when the third party changed lanes without 
signalling. She also says the third party was using a mobile phone before, during and after 
the impact.
There is some confusion over this, because UKIs claim notes record that when they first 
spoke to the named driver, they understood her to be saying she wasnt sure who had 
changed lanes.
The third party says it was the named driver who changed lanes. And caused the accident.
There is no CCTV coverage to help determine whose version of events is true. And there are 
no independent witnesses. The police havent prosecuted the third party for driving whilst 
using a mobile phone.
I can see from their claim notes that UKI have taken into account the named drivers 
description of the accident  along with the third partys. Theyve also given Mr R and the 
named driver the opportunity clarify their version and provide further information.
I can also see theyve looked into whether CCTV coverage was available. And they waited 
until it was clear that neither driver could produce any independent witnesses. 
This was what caused the delay Mr R complains about. It appears the third party believed 
they might be able to provide details for an independent witness, but it turned out not to be 
possible. 
Mr R thinks the third party invented this possibility and was never going to be able to 
produce a witness. That may be the case  although it appears to be speculation on Mr Rs 
part. But I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to wait before agreeing how the claim 
should be settled. Its difficult to see how UKI could be blamed for any delay if the third party 
was suggesting further important evidence might be available.
So, to summarise, UKI have gathered and considered all the available evidence, theyve 
considered the engineers report on the damage to Mr Rs car and theyve decided to settle 
the claim on a 50/50 basis because it isnt possible to determine where the fault for the 
accident lies.
Its not for me to decide who was at fault for the accident  even if that were possible. I have 
to consider whether UKI have handled the claim reasonably, established what evidence is 
available and made a reasonable decision on that basis.
I know this will disappoint Mr R, but Im satisfied UKI have acted reasonably and fairly in the 
way theyve handled and looked into this claim. And Im satisfied theyve come to a 
reasonable conclusion based on the evidence available. Their settling the claim on a without 
prejudice basis leaves Mr R free to pursue the matter through the courts should he wish to 
do so.
Im sorry the named driver was involved in this accident and I can understand their 
frustration about the lack of objective evidence when they clearly believe they werent at 
fault, but it follows that Im not going to ask UKI to reinstate Mr Rs no claims bonus  he has after all made a claim. Nor am I going to ask them to refund the excess  which was set out 
clearly in the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman