DRN-3398851
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her fee-paying Gold, 
Platinum and Premier accounts.
Ms M says that they were mis-sold as she was led to believe she needed the packaged 
accounts to get preferential interest rates on loans and overdrafts. Ms M also says that she 
was not advised of the full costs of the accounts and says that she couldve got the individual 
benefits separately for cheaper.
Account history
Account opened  May 1990
Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold Service account at some point prior to September 
2001;
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account - September 2005;
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account - September 2011;
Downgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account - November 2011;
Changed to Platinum Club Lloyds account - September 2014;
Changed to a Club Lloyds account.
What happened
Lloyds upheld Ms Ms complaint about the sale of the Gold Service account, and arranged 
for a refund of account fees, along with interest at 8% simple, less tax, to be paid to Ms M. I 
also understand that Ms M is not complaining about adding the Club Lloyds feature to her 
account.
Lloyds did not uphold the complaint about the sale of the Platinum or Premier accounts. 
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and she didnt think that those accounts 
had been mis-sold either. Ms M disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it might also be helpful to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
lacking, Im required to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on all 
the evidence that is available. And having considered everything, Im not able to say that the 
Platinum and Premier accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ive started off by considering whether Ms M was given a fair choice when she was sold the 
accounts.
Ms M has said that she was led to believe that she had to have the accounts to obtain lower 
rates of interest on loans and overdrafts. However, I note that Ms Ms testimony appears, at 
least initially, to only relate to the original sale of the Gold Service account  which Lloyds 
has upheld. 
However, from the outset I have to say I dont find it particularly persuasive if Ms M is now 
saying that she was given the same wrong information on two further occasions, all of which 
were many years after she first upgraded to the Gold Service account. I say this especially 
as there is no evidence to show she was applying for, or discussing, a loan around the time 
that the Platinum and Premier sales took place. Nor can I see that any changes were made 
to her overdraft limit around the time of the sales either. That said, both accounts did offer 
preferential interest rates on overdrafts. So if Ms M was told that the accounts provided 
better rates on overdrafts, that was correct.
As such, based on everything I have seen, Im unable to conclude that Ms M was deprived 
of a fair choice. In the circumstances I think that Ms M agreed to the accounts, knowing they 
were optional. This is reflected in the fact that Ms M later downgraded the more expensive 
Premier account to a cheaper Platinum account around two months after agreeing to it.
The accounts were sold on an advised basis. This meant that Lloyds had to ensure that they 
were a reasonable fit for Ms Ms circumstances at the time.  
In 2005, the Platinum account provided worldwide travel cover, breakdown cover, mobile 
phone insurance, alongside other benefits, such as a £250 interest free overdraft facility - 
that offered lower rates on interest on balances above this amount, up to the agreed limit. 
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that Ms M registered a mobile phone shortly before 
she upgraded to the Platinum account, then registered further handsets later on. So it seems 
that Ms M had a need for and was relying on the mobile phone insurance provided with her 
account. I can also see that Ms M was regularly using the overdraft on her account each 
month, so Ms M wouldve been able to benefit from the overdraft benefits as well. 
The notes from the time also suggest that Ms M had a need for breakdown cover, and again 
this was something that was included with the account. I note that Ms M disputes this and 
questions why she wouldve wanted to pay for unnecessary insurance. However, the 
evidence from the time does suggest that breakdown cover (which the Platinum account 
provided enhanced levels of cover) was discussed with her and was identified as being 
something that she could make use of. And theres evidence that Ms M was driving at the 
time, which supports that she mayve had a need for breakdown cover, even if its the case 
that she never subsequently had to claim on it.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, the recommendation to upgrade does not seem 
unreasonable in the circumstances. I say this as Ms M was able to benefit from a number of 
the features provided by the account, and bearing in mind what Ive already said above 
about Ms M having a fair choice when the account was sold to her.
When the Premier account was sold to Ms M, it cost £25 per month. But looking at the notes 
from the time, it appears that it was offered to Ms M at an initial discounted rate of £17 per 
month, for the first two months, so only £2 more than what she was already paying each 
month. 
From looking at these notes and Ms Ms account history, it seems that Ms M only agreed to 
the Premier account whilst it was reduced in price, and then reverted back to a Platinum 
account once the full monthly fee came into effect. At the time, the account offered features 
such as a £500 intertest free overdraft and lower interest (compared to the Platinum account) on overdrawn balances above this amount, and I can see that Ms M was still 
regularly using her overdraft. And it provided other features such as home emergency cover, 
enhanced levels of breakdown cover, worldwide family travel insurance. And from what I can 
see, I think Ms M was able to make use of these features, and was also aware that she 
could downgrade, as soon as she felt that the benefits were not worth the extra cost  which 
she did in November 2011. So I dont think that this account was an unreasonable 
recommendation either.
Finally, I note that Ms M reverted to the Platinum account. But as this change to the account 
was because she asked for the account to be downgraded back to what it previously was, I 
dont think this sale occurred on an advised basis.
As well as making sure the accounts were a reasonable fit for Ms Ms circumstances, Lloyds 
also had to give Ms M enough information so that she could make an informed decision. The 
notes recorded at the time suggest that Ms M was made aware of the costs of the accounts. 
And the fact Ms M downgraded the Premier package back to a Platinum package once the 
discounted monthly fee ended, makes me think that Ms M was aware of the cost of the 
account. I can also see that Ms M has registered a number of mobile phones and contacted 
the travel insurer in 2012, 2016, 2017 and 2019, which makes me think that Ms M was given 
at least enough information to understand what benefits were provided with the accounts 
and also how to go about using them when she needed to.
I accept its possible that Ms M may not have been given all of the necessary information 
during the sales. But at the same time, Ive not seen anything that makes me think she 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to them, had she been given even more information 
about them.
Finally, I note that Ms M says that she couldve got the benefits from elsewhere for cheaper. 
But whilst that may be the case, that doesnt mean the accounts were mis-sold. Afterall, 
Lloyds can only reasonably be expected to provide information (and advice where 
applicable) based on the products that it sells. I should also point out that as the accounts 
were sold as a package, that meant that Ms M couldnt pick and choose what they came 
with. And so its the case that the accounts would not necessarily be deemed to be mis-sold 
if Ms M didnt or was unable to use all of the benefits that they came with. 
So overall I dont think that the Platinum and Premier accounts were mis-sold. On the 
contrary, I think Ms M agreed to them knowing they were optional and that she agreed to 
them because of the benefits that they provided. It therefore follows that I dont think a 
refund of the account fees is warranted in this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Platinum and Premier accounts 
were mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman