DRN-3467474
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the way Crowdcube Capital Limited presented an investment
opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. He feels information about the company he
invested in was inaccurate and Crowdcube should have checked this.
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a business
and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding whether to
invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the business.
Mr H made an investment in a food takeaway company, which I shall refer to as Company
A, via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform in 2017. The pitch for the crowdfunding
campaign explained that:
Having grown from 2 sites to 4 since their last round on Crowdcube, [Company A] is
revolutionising thetakeout industry through its takeaway only locations with rapid
delivery and custom technology. Now raising funds for further expansion.
Mr H invested £500 in Company A during this fundraising round and as Company A
substantially surpassed its initial £500,000 target, the round successfully closed in January
2018 and he was allocated shares. 
Company A contacted Mr H in 2018 and 2019 explaining that it had decided to pivot its
business model away from branded high street stores to an online delivery model via dark
kitchens. Company A then entered into a creditors voluntary liquidation, following a winding
up resolution being passed by Company As members in May 2020.
Mr H raised a complaint with Crowdcube in August 2021 regarding the fundraise, having 
seen a newspaper article refer to a final decision this service had issued against Crowdcube
regarding Company A. He felt he was entitled to compensation as the final decision upheld a
similar complaint. He said he wouldnt have invested in Company A had he been told it
intended to pivot from its original plans.
Crowdcube looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
Company As directors determined that it was in the best interests of the company to 
pivot away from opening takeaway stores and to move towards opening dark 
kitchens. And this wasnt something that Crowdcube had or ever could have any 
control over.
It felt the pitch presented was clear, fair and not misleading.
Investors had the opportunity to ask Company A further questions, which some 
investors did. If investors had particular investment criteria, this would have been the 
appropriate juncture to ask questions to understand whether Company A was fit 
those investment criteria. 
Mr H didnt accept Crowdcubes findings and so referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
An investigator at this service considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary,
he said:
Crowdcube needed to ensure the pitch was clear, fair and not misleading. This 
included carrying out a basic plausibility check on Company As expansion plans.
Crowdcube didnt obtain sufficient documentary evidence to substantiate how likely 
Company As plans were to go ahead.
Its clear that Crowdcube were aware Company As plans for using the funds were at 
an early stage and this ought to have been disclosed in the pitch. Although it wasnt 
aware that Company A intended to pivot its plans.
However, he didnt think it would have changed Mr Hs decision to invest had 
Crowdcube disclosed that Company As expansion plans were at an early stage.
This was because Mr H didn't make any enquiries with Company A or Crowdcube on 
the progress with opening new sites.
Company A had provided several updates which explained it wasnt opening the sites 
as planned and that it was moving to a dark kitchen model.
Mr Hs decision to invest in Company A been based on the opening of physical 
locations, then she wouldve expected Mr H to have raised concerns when receiving 
these updates.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, he said invested solely on the 
basis of the information contained within the pitch and he would never have invested had he 
known Company A was going to move to a completely different plan. He also said he didnt 
ask for his investment back at the time of Company A changing its plans as it was facing 
likely liquidation and so he didnt want to waste any more money pursuing this.
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A,
it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
The FCA also said that:
In relation to statements about future commercial success, this should include at
least a basic plausibility check. For example, if a borrower says it is going to build a
block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant construction
permissions, it would seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of
the project.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November
2019 which explained that firms should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other
things):
The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
Whilst I appreciate Mr H had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the
time.
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says
they should first understand what due diligence a platform preforms on investee companies.Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due
diligence charter. It explains:
The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open to
investment: []
fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to ensure it is fair, 
clear and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent 
evidence.
Taking into account the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to be
sufficient to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A
was based. Crowdcube also needed to check that the claims made in the pitch were
authentic by way of a basic plausibility test. Further, Crowdcube needed to make Mr H 
aware of the extent of which it performed due diligence on Company A, let him know the 
outcome of this and for it to be sufficiently detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and 
benefits of investing in Company A.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that Company A didnt use the funds raised in the way in
which Crowdcube promoted it would. However, there is a distinct lack of information
provided in the pitch about what Company A wanted to raise funds for. The only information
given on this point is that Company A had grown from two sites to four and was looking for
further expansion but doesnt clarify what this entails. Clearly, how an investee business
intends to use funds raised through crowdfunding is essential information which should be
provided to investors to enable them to make a reasoned decision to invest or not. Providing
all relevant and essential information is especially important considering Crowdcube was
promoting high-risk, non-readily realisable securities to Mr H.
Crowdcube has provided clarity around the due diligence it performed. It says that to satisfy
itself it was plausible Company A would use funds for further expansion by opening new
sites, it discussed with Company A what further expansion would look like. Crowdcube says
Company A advised that it had a number of locations in mind but as these plans were at a
relatively early stage, there was limited documentary evidence available. It also says it was
clear from the discussions it had with Company A that these plans were genuine.
Crowdcube has provided records of what discussed during these calls to illustrate this. A
record from a call in November 2017, shortly before the pitch went live, says:
4 units currently  several more in the pipeline  what does that mean?
This shows Crowdcube did perform due diligence and that, as a part of this process, it
questioned Company on its plans for opening new sites. However, there was no information
recorded about Company As responses and so its unclear what further enquiries
Crowdcube made or to what extent Company A responded. I understand Crowdcube feels
strongly that it didnt promote the opening of specific sites at any point and rather, promoted
Company A had expanded from two sites to four and intended to expand further. Im afraid I
dont agree. Crowdcube had a regulatory requirement to ensure the promotion of the
investment in Company A was fair, clear and not misleading. Its not clear what further
expansion means and the pitch provides no further clarity. I think any reasonable person
reading having grown from two sites to four, followed by (in the next sentence) now raising
funds for further expansion would reasonably assume that Company A was looking to open
up new sites with the funding. The fact that Crowdcube asked Company A questions about
opening new sites further supports this. In other words, the pitch was at best unclear, and at
worst misleading.
Further expansion is clearly a statement about future commercial success and as such,Crowdcube ought to have conducted at least a basic plausibility check on this. I appreciate
the difficulty a platform faces in testing the plausibility of whether an investee company will
do what it says it intends to do in its pitch. And I understand that Crowdcube tested the
plausibility of the statement of further expansion by combining Q&A with Company A with
evidence of its track record of opening new sites. However, its apparent in Mr Hs case that
Crowdcube knew Company As plans for using the funds were at an early stage and were
not substantiated with sufficient documentary evidence for it to conclude how plausible these
plans were. Yet Crowdcube didnt make Mr H aware of this anywhere in the pitch. And in not
making him aware, I dont think it can be argued that Crowdcube met its obligations under
COBS 4.2.1R (1)  the fair, clear and not misleading rule.
In order to safeguard investors such as Mr H, Crowdcube ought to have asked what
Company A meant by further expansion and should have checked whether this was
plausible. Considering Crowdcube had seen lease documentation for the two previous
stores, an example of how it could have performed a plausibility check could have been by
obtaining similar documentation for any new stores it intended to open. Even if the
documents werent yet finalised, Crowdcube could have asked for evidence of agreements
in principle or anything to demonstrate Company A intended to open new stores. In the
absence of this information, I dont think it can be argued that Crowdcube met its obligations
under I dont think it can be argued that Crowdcube met its obligations under Principle 6
(PRIN 2.1.1R (6))  the clients best interest rule.
Whilst I think there was a failing in Crowdcubes due diligence, in order to uphold the
complaint Id need to be satisfied that Mr H wouldnt have invested had Crowdcube made
him aware that Company As expansion plans were at an early stage and werent
substantiated with documentary evidence. Ive thought very carefully about this, but on
balance, Im persuaded he would have still invested despite Crowdcubes failing. I know this
will be disappointing for Mr H, but Ill explain why Ive reached this outcome.
I understand Mr H says he wouldnt have invested had he known Company As expansion
plans werent substantiated and that it was going to pivot to a dark kitchen model, but I
have to consider that hes complaining with the benefit of hindsight, with Company A having
been liquidated. To be clear, what I have to decide isnt whether Mr H wouldve invested had
he been made aware that Company A was going to pivot its plans, this is because 
Crowdcube wasnt aware of Company A having any intentions to change plans at the time of
promoting the investment. Rather its to decide whether Mr H wouldve still invested had he
been told that Company As plans to open new stores were at an early stage and that
Crowdcube hadnt seen any documentary evidence to substantiate the plans.
Im aware that Company A contacted all investors, including Mr H, in 2018 and 2019 to
explain it had decided to pivot its business model away from branded high street stores to
move towards an online delivery model. Despite receiving these updates, Mr H didnt contact
Company A or Crowdcube to query this change. If the opening of new stores was critical to
Mr Hs decision to invest, then I would have expected to see some evidence to support this 
such as queries raised at the time of investing or after being notified of Company A pivoting
its plans. I appreciate Mr H says he didnt contact Company A as he didnt think there was 
anything he could do about the change of plans and that Company A was likely going to face 
liquidation. But in the absence of this, Im not persuaded his decision to invest was based 
purely on the opening of new stores.
Whist the pitch explained what Company A wanted to use the funds raised for, it also
provided financial information which may have influenced Mr Hs decision to invest. This
included information regarding Company As revenue and sales growth:
Our revenue in 2016 was £1.23m with EBITDA of - £300k...We have seen salesgrow by 75% to October and are profitable at store level since October.
The pitch also spoke ambitiously about the potential market of the takeout industry and
Company As position in it. So its clear to me that there may have been a number of
reasons as to why Mr H may have decided to invest in Company A, other than the opening
of new sites. 
Furthermore, the email updates regarding the pivot didnt suggest that Company A was in 
financial difficulty and dont support Mr Hs comments around a risk of liquidation preventing 
him from raising any concerns about the change of plans at the time. 
So as Mr H didnt raise any concerns at the time Company A deviated from the plans 
provided in the pitch, this further supports that he invested in Company A as he had 
confidence in the overall financial prospect of the business and wouldve done so even if
he had been told the expansion plans were at an early stage.
Taking into account all of the above, I havent found evidence to persuade me that clearer
information about the expansion plans would have changed Mr Hs decision to invest.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman