DRN-4484215
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) to 
transfer the benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB pension scheme) 
from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding 
their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
On 28 June 2017, Mr M obtained a transfer value for his BSPS scheme benefits from the 
trustees of the scheme. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his benefits at that 
time was £165,000.43.
Mr M sought advice from CST in August 2017 about his pension. Also in August 2017, the 
RAA was signed and confirmed. There were important updates, including on 25 August 
2017, which indicated that when the RAA took effect, updated transfer valuations would be 
provided. 
CST completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. 
Amongst other things CST noted Mr M was 47 married to Mrs M, who was 46, and had two 
older children, who were no longer financially dependent. He and Mrs M were employed, 
and their income exceeded their outgoings. They owned their own home, subject to a 
mortgage, which was due to be repaid in approximately 7 years. And in addition to the 
benefits he held in the BSPS scheme, Mr M was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) pension.
The fact-find said that Mr M had made no plans for when he wished to retire, he had no need 
to maximise lump sums available from his pension and the BSPS benefits made up the 
major portion of his retirement provisions. It said though that he hoped to potentially retire at 
age 60 and was interested in flexibility in his benefits. The fact-find also said Mr Ms capacity 
and tolerance for loss had already been discussed and it was agreed that this was 
moderately cautious. And Mr M also agreed with a statement that said he did not consider it 
appropriate to expose his pension to anything other than a minimal amount of risk.
CST however carried out a separate assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be high medium. This assessment said the target portfolio for a high medium risk profile 
investor had an estimated annual growth rate of 3.25%.
In September 2017, CST advised Mr M to transfer his BSPS benefits into a SIPP and use 
the services of a discretionary fund manager (DFM). CST said Mr M wanted to retire at age 
60 and expected to need an income of £18,000 per year in retirement. It said hed incur 
penalties if he retired before the normal scheme retirement age of the BSPS and so wanted 
to transfer for the flexibility. It also said Mr M wanted the option to access tax-free cash to 
clear his mortgage and other debts and was interested in the lump sum death benefits 
offered by a personal pension. CST said it felt Mr Ms attitude to risk was actually lower than 
the high medium that the risk profiler had suggested and a more cautious approach to 
investment should be taken. And it noted that the critical yield, the level of investment return 
required each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme at retirement, 
couldnt be guaranteed to be achieved year on year. But it still considered a transfer was 
suitable to meet Mr Ms objectives.
Mr M accepted the recommendation and forms were completed to enable the transfer on 
18 September 2017. The CETV of Mr Ms benefits was increased, following the RAA, to 
£170,380.39. The transfer didnt complete until after this had happened and the higher value 
was the amount transferred.
Mr M complained in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he felt hed 
been given bad advice to transfer out of the scheme rather than join the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
He said this had caused him a lot of worry as he had lost valuable guaranteed benefits and 
he believed he was likely to be worse off.  
CST didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it felt the advice was suitable based on Mr Ms 
objectives and preference to retire from age 60, mentioning a higher income requirement 
than the suitability report suggested.
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint. He noted there was some contradiction about Mr Ms attitude to 
risk, which the recommendation had in fact picked up on. In any event, he felt Mr Ms 
retirement plans were unlikely to be finalised, given how far from retirement he was. So, the 
Investigator didnt think transferring at that time was in his interests. He also didnt think 
alternative death benefits meant a transfer was suitable. And he noted Mr Ms mortgage was 
due to be repaid before he reached retirement so didnt think he needed access to tax-free 
cash to address this, as the advice had suggested. Based on this and because the 
Investigator felt Mr M was unlikely to improve on the benefits that he couldve taken via the 
scheme at retirement by transferring he said the complaint should be upheld. And he 
recommended that CST compensate Mr M for any losses caused by the unsuitable advice 
and pay him £300 for the distress hed incurred.
CST initially said that, without prejudice to its position that the advice was suitable, it was 
minded to accept the Investigators opinion in order to resolve matters. But there was some 
debate about when a calculation should be run. And a decision by an ombudsman was 
subsequently requested.
The FCA has since developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator. Although the calculator 
has been developed for the BSPS consumer redress scheme, it can still be used to carry out 
calculations in non-scheme cases, such as Mr Ms complaint with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our Investigator informed both Mr M and CST, in May 2023, that if an 
Ombudsmans decision was required and they upheld the complaint, they may require CST 
to calculate any redress due using the FCA BSPS-specific calculator.CST responded to this and said it estimated that Mr M had gained from its advice and no 
harm had been suffered, so it didnt see how it could be concluded the advice was 
unsuitable. But to avoid any further delay it said it was prepared to accept the Investigators 
opinion and withdrew its appeal.
CST has explained that it has carried out a loss assessment using the FCAs redress 
calculator, using the most recent quarterly assumptions. It said, having done so, the 
calculation showed that Mr M had not incurred a financial loss and so he was not owed any 
redress. A copy of the calculation was sent to the Financial Ombudsman Service and shared 
with Mr M. Although it disputed whether Mr M had incurred distress or inconvenience, CST 
said it would make a payment of £300 to address this and to settle matters and has 
confirmed that offer still stands.
We shared this with Mr M and our Investigator said they believed the calculation had been 
carried out correctly. Mr M did not accept the calculation and said he wanted a decision by 
an Ombudsman. He said CST had poorly advised him and he felt it should be held 
accountable. He also said he didnt agree with the recommended award for the distress 
caused. He said the advice had had a significant impact on him and caused him a great deal 
of stress. So, he felt that an award of £5,000 - £10,000 was more appropriate.
In light of Mr Ms remaining concerns and as agreement could not be reached, Im now 
providing a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CST has said while it doesnt believe the advice was unsuitable, it was willing to accept the 
Investigators opinion. And it has carried out a loss calculation and agreed to pay Mr M £300 
for the distress and inconvenience caused as recommended by our investigator. So, I dont 
see the need to address the suitability of its advice to Mr M in detail. 
However, I would note, for the avoidance of doubt, that having taken into account relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I agree with the 
Investigators view that the advice was unsuitable for largely the same reasons they set out. 
A loss calculation now, showing that Mr M has not suffered a loss, doesnt mean that the 
advice at the time was suitable. The critical yields to match the benefits that Mr M couldve 
obtained through the BSPS2 and PPF at age 60 or 65 were high. And taking into account 
the relevant discount rates from the time, the regulators standard projection rates and what 
CST said the estimated annual growth for a portfolio for a high medium investor was, I think 
these all point to it being unlikely at the time of the advice, that Mr M would be able to match 
the guaranteed benefits he was giving up. Which CST acknowledged in the suitability report 
when saying the critical yields couldnt be guaranteed to be achievable year on year. 
Although CST recorded that Mr M would like to retire at age 60, the fact find also noted he 
had no plans for retirement. And I think any thoughts about retirement were unlikely to be 
finalised, given his age at the time. So, I think it I think it was too soon for Mr M to make an 
irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB scheme to achieve flexibility. Particularly when 
his new DC pension scheme wouldve provided him with access to pension benefits flexibly 
at retirement. And he had the option of joining the BSPS2, and by joining it he would retain 
the option to transfer out at a later date if his circumstances required it.As a pensions primary purpose is to meet the holders needs in retirement, I dont think 
transferring for alternative death benefits was in Mr Ms interest, particularly when life 
insurance couldve been explored and, in my view, would have been a more appropriate 
solution for providing a legacy. And while Mr M was likely to have been, quite 
understandably, concerned about what had happened with his pension to that point, I dont 
think any concerns he held about this meant transferring was in his best interests  as the 
BSPS2 and PPF wouldve still provided him with guaranteed pension benefits.
So overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ms best interest to give 
up his DB benefits and transfer them to a SIPP. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme.
As Ive noted though, CST has said it accepts the Investigators findings. And the dispute 
now is around how to put things right. So, Ill focus in the rest of this decision on the redress 
method.
Mr M has said CST should be held accountable. But I think it is worth explaining that the 
role of our service is to informally review and decide individual disputes on a fair and 
reasonable basis. We arent a regulator. And our awards are not intended to fine or punish a 
business 
As Mr M has received unsuitable advice, the aim is to put him, as far as possible, in the 
position he wouldve been but for that advice. Mr M cannot though return to the BSPS. So, 
the aim is to put Mr M back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. For which the FCA developed a calculator, specific to the 
BSPS. CST has carried out a calculation using that calculator. Which is what I would expect 
it to do in the circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by CST which are personal to Mr M. These 
include Mr Ms personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. All of which appear to have been input 
correctly. The calculation also assumes that if he had not been advised to transfer his 
benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the BSPS2 and that he would have taken 
his DB benefits at age 65  in line with the recommendation of the Investigator. Id also note 
though the calculation also produced details of the cost of replicating benefits under the 
PPF. Retiring at 60 appears to have been discussed as part of the advice. But as Ive explained, I dont think his plans were confirmed at the time of the advice. And, as the 
benefits from age 65 wouldve been greater (so would cost more to replicate) I think using 
this assumption, in line with the FCAs guidance was appropriate and hasnt disadvantaged 
Mr M with regard to the calculation. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ms case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr M has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension. 
And as an appropriate calculation has been carried out by CST, using the FCA calculator 
and up to date quarterly assumptions, I dont think it now needs to do anything further in 
respect of any potential financial loss.
CST has still offered to pay £300 as recommended by our Investigator for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him. Mr M has said he does not accept this amount 
and believes that a far greater payment for the distress this has caused him should be 
required.
Mr M received advice from CST in September 2017. He first complained about that advice in 
May 2022. Ive seen evidence that, in the intervening period, Mr M remained a customer of 
CSTs and sought advice from it in relation to other financial matters. In respect of the 
pension, CST appears to have continued to provide updates and reviews to Mr M. And I 
cant see that Mr M indicated at any stage, up to the point he complained, that he had any 
concerns about the advice or service hed received from CST. So, I dont think I can fairly 
conclude he was caused ongoing distress by the advice from the point it was given to when 
he made a complaint. Nor can I see that he has been caused any inconvenience  
administrative or other  in that period, resulting from the advice.
I acknowledge that Mr M has had to go to some effort when bringing a complaint. But we're 
all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives. We wouldnt usually make an award just 
for someone having to go to the effort of making a complaint. And I dont think itd be fair to 
do so here. This is because things do go wrong from time to time and its reasonable to 
expect that they will need to be put right.
I dont doubt that, after lodging the complaint, Mr M has potentially been worried by the 
thought of the advice he received having been unsuitable for him. The advice related to his 
pension, which is important to his longer-term financial planning. And when also taking into 
account the circumstances and uncertainty under which he asked for advice, thinking about 
this has likely caused him some concern. Which is likely in my view to have been more than 
the levels of frustration and annoyance you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life. 
But I think most people feel strongly about complaints they make, if they think something has 
gone wrong. And again, our role is not to fine or punish a business. And, although I dont 
doubt that Mr M has been worried that he mightve received unsuitable advice or that he felt 
strongly about this since complaining, the calculation CST has carried out should reassure 
him that he has not suffered a loss. 
Having taken all of this into consideration, while I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr M, I think the award of £300 recommended by the Investigator, which CST has agreed to 
pay, is fair in the circumstances. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr M £300, as it 
has previously agreed to, for the distress this matter has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman