DRN-2868560
The complaint
Mr R complained that Paragon Bank Plc failed to allocate a deposit hed made into his ISA 
account with them and, as a result, it missed the tax year cut off for that years contributions.
What happened
Mr R arranged for £13,000 to be transferred from his bank account, with another provider, to 
his Paragon Easy Access Cash ISA on Friday 3 April 2020. 
On Monday 6 April 2020, Mr R received a telephone call from Paragon. They said that the 
transferred amount was being held on a suspense account. They said that they needed him 
to agree to an ISA declaration. Because of this, the deposit wouldnt now qualify as a 
contribution for the 2019/20 tax year, but they could deposit it against his 2020/21 tax year 
contribution.
Mr R wasnt happy with what Paragon told him. He thought that it was Paragons fault that 
the deposit had missed the cut off for the tax year end. So, he said that he wanted to raise 
an official complaint.
Paragon wrote to Mr R on 15 April 2020. Theyd investigated his complaint, but they didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong. Paragon said that theyd been unable to allocate the 
deposit to his ISA on the day it was received. This was because they required a valid ISA 
declaration for the 2019/20 tax year. They said hed signed a declaration when he opened 
the ISA with them in January 2019 for the tax year 2018/19 and each subsequent year. But, 
because hed made no ISA deposits during the 2018/19 tax year, the declaration was 
invalidated for future years.
Mr R didnt agree with Paragon. He said that Paragon hadnt told him about his declaration 
being invalidated before then. Mr R didnt think theyd made the requirement clear. He also 
wasnt happy that, despite depositing the funds on 3 April 2020, they didnt contact him until 
6 April 2020  after the end of the tax year. Mr R decided to refer his complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Rs complaint. She didnt think that Paragon had 
done anything wrong here. She said that while it wouldve been helpful if Paragons website 
had included a message to inform him that a new declaration was required, they werent 
required to do this.
Mr R disagreed. So, he asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr R and Paragon have confirmed that Mr Rs Cash ISA was opened on 17 January 
2019. At that time, Mr R arranged for the balance of an existing ISA account, with another 
provider, to be transferred across. I believe that these funds had accumulated under 
previous tax year allowance(s). So, they didnt form part of a contribution for the tax year 
2018/19.
Ive seen statements for Mr Rs ISA account. They confirm that Mr R made no qualifying 
contributions to his ISA with Paragon during the 2018/19 tax year.
HMRC provide guidance in relation to ISAs on the GOV.UK website. Their guidance is 
entitled Information you need from investors when they apply for an ISA. Under 
Applications to subscribe to an ISA, it says 
Applications are valid for subscriptions and payments made in:
The year of application
Each successive year following the year of application, in which the applicant 
subscribes to the ISA
This allows a continuous subscription/payment by direct debit or standing order, provided at 
least one payment is made in each tax year. It also says, Other than for a lifetime ISA, 
applications cease to be valid at the end of a tax year in which the investor fails to make a 
subscription.
On the basis that Mr R didnt appear to have contributed to his Paragon ISA during the 
2018/19 tax year, HMRCs guidance suggests that hed need to complete a new application 
and/or declaration, before further contributions could be made in the following tax years. So, 
I agree with Paragon on this point  a new declaration was required.
Mr R said that he completed the transfer by way of an on-line Faster Payment transaction 
from his bank account with another provider. He said that the transaction was completed on 
Friday 3 April 2020 at 13:08. Paragon have told us that there is a cut off time of 16:00 to 
address any rejected deposits received. Paragon have provided evidence to show that the 
deposit was rejected and automatically applied to a suspense account on Friday 3 April 2020 
at 16:10:59. 
Mr R said that he sent the deposit payment well before the cut-off Paragon quote at 4pm 
and in plenty of time to meet the cut-off. 
The Faster Payment Scheme provide their own guidance about how long Faster Payments 
take. They say that Provided the sending and receiving bank/building society are Direct 
Participants of Faster Payments, payments are usually available almost immediately, 
although they can sometimes take up to two hours. These timescales can still apply if either 
the sending or receiving bank is not a Direct Participant of Faster Payments. Some 
payments will take longerall financial institutions in the UK must abide by the Payment 
Services Directiveany payments mademust arrive by the end of the following business 
day at the latest.
I cant see that Paragon are included on the list of Direct Participants. So, its reasonable to 
conclude that a faster payment could take longer before being received by them.
Its also relevant to say that Paragon are not a direct user of the UK bank clearing system. 
Their literature and website confirm that they use a third-party UK bank to clear any 
payments to or from accounts held with them. Paragon say, This means that funds will go 
through the third-party clearing bank before they reach your savings account. So, again it 
is reasonable to conclude that any payments could be subject to longer timescales before 
they are applied to a Paragon account.
Mr R said that he followed all the guidance given by Paragon on their website. He said there 
was no reference to the need for a supplementary ISA declaration. I agree with Mr R on 
this point. Ive looked at Paragons website and terms and conditions. They make no 
reference to this requirement. Mr R also said that Paragon had never written to him to say 
that a new declaration was required.
Its relevant, at this point, to state that its not the role of this service to ask a business to 
alter or amend its terms, polices or processes. But it is our role to examine and decided whether Paragon have been fair and reasonable in the manner in which those policies and 
procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of Mr R. 
The requirement for a new ISA declaration is one thats set by HMRC  not Paragon. So, it 
doesnt appear to form part of Paragons own terms and conditions specifically. While it 
wouldve been helpful if Paragon had referenced this, I cant reasonably hold Paragon 
responsible for not including it in their own guidance and literature. All of HMRCs 
requirements are available via the GOV.UK website.
Mr R pointed out that government guidance to ISA providers says that they have a 
responsibilityto make arrangements to examine, before the end of the tax year, all 
applications received to ensure they are complete. But Mr R wasnt submitting a new 
application here. The deposit was to an existing ISA account. 
I think its also relevant here that Mr Rs deposit was made on the afternoon of the last 
business day before the tax year end. Unfortunately, Paragon said that their finance team 
handle any rejected payments of this type. But that team didnt operate over the weekend. 
This is their own policy and is, therefore, a business decision and not one that falls within our 
remit to challenge. Unfortunately, this meant that steps couldnt be taken to address and 
apply Mr Rs rejected deposit to his ISA account before the tax year end. 
I completely understand Mr Rs frustration and disappointment about what happened here. 
Its unfortunate, but I believe that if his payment had been made a day or two earlier, the 
matter may well have been resolved in time. On balance, I cant reasonably say that 
Paragon have been unfair here. Mr Rs deposit was rejected to a suspense account after 
Paragons cut off of 4pm on the last business day of the tax year. Paragon did contact Mr R 
promptly the next business day. Unfortunately, this was after the tax year end. I cant see 
that they had any other options here.
So, on balance, I cant say that Paragon have done anything wrong. So, in these 
circumstances, I wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman