DRN-2645363
The complaint
Mr L complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Autonet Insurance 
Group and as Swinton Van) mishandled his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr L went online and got a quotation to insure his van for a year from 1 June 
2020. Atlanta 1 acted as an intermediary between Mr L and an insurance company. Mr L 
had to call Atlanta 1. It went through some of the information hed given and then took his 
payment. Later that day, Mr L called again and changed to payment by monthly instalments.
In July 2020, Mr L asked Atlanta 1 about taking the van to some European countries and 
about a quote for a second van. Atlanta 1 went through his details and found an issue about 
the number of years Mr L had been continuously resident in the UK. Atlanta 1 contacted the 
insurance company and it decided to cancel the policy.
Mr L complained to Atlanta 1 that it hadnt checked the information when he took out the 
policy. By a final response dated 10 August 2020, Atlanta 1 turned down his complaint. 
Unhappy with that, Mr L brought his complaint to us in September 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Atlanta 1 had acted fairly. She couldnt hold them responsible for the actions of the insurer.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that the real reason for the cancellation was that he hadnt 
been resident in this country for more than 5 years - but in fact he had been resident in this 
country for more than 5 years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant law, regulation and good practice. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one regulated 
financial firm at a time. In our final decision, we name that firm, but we dont identify any 
other party. Im dealing with a complaint against Atlanta 1. I wont name the insurance 
company or the underwriters acting on its behalf.
Ive looked at Atlanta 1s terms of business. Section 5 set out a fee of £20.00 for arranging a 
new policy and a fee of £79.95 in the event of cancellation after the 14-day cooling-off 
period. I accept Mr Ls point that Section 8 isnt clear about a fee if cancellation isnt by the 
policyholder. But, together, I find Sections 5 and 8 are clear that the fee applies whether the 
cancellation is by the policyholder or not.
From the statement of fact, I find it likely that  when he went online  Mr L was met with a 
question of how many years hed been continuously resident in the UK, and he gave an 
answer of 41 years. Mr L has raised the possibility that this answer was automatically 
generated by the website. But  even if it was  I find that Mr L had responsibility to input the 
correct number of years.
His telephone calls in May 2020 were about making payment. So I dont consider that 
Atlanta 1 was required to ask Mr L again about the number of years hed been continuously 
resident in the UK.
In any event, its welcome letter contained a warning about checking information as follows:
It is important that you check the enclosed statement of fact/proposal form very 
carefully and let us know if any of these details are incorrect. Incorrect information 
could result in your policy being cancelled at a later date.
And Mr L mustve known that 41 years was incorrect. So he either didnt check the 
information hed given or decided not to correct it.
Mr Ls call in July 2020 was partly to get a new quote. So Atlanta 1 asked for full details. And 
Mr L said hed been continuously resident tin the UK since about 2014. So Atalanta 1 had to 
refer to the insurance company under the existing policy. 
Atlanta 1 wrote Mr L a seven-day notice of cancellation dated 17 July 2020. But it was the 
insurance companys decision  not Atlanta 1s  to cancel the policy. And Atalanta 1s 
notice of cancellation was given as agent for the insurance company. Therefore I dont hold 
Atlanta 1 responsible for the cancellation or for the validity of the reason behind it.
Atlanta 1 also wrote two letters dated 27 July 2020 confirming the cancellation of the policy. 
Atlanta 1 wrote a further letter dated 13 August 2020 confirming that it had charged a £20.00 
arrangement fee and a £79.95 cancellation fee. Im satisfied that Atalanta communicated 
with Mr L properly and that its fees were in line with its terms of business.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Atlanta 1 to do any more in response to the 
complaint from Mr L.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman