DRN-3172603
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited, trading as The 
Insurance Emporium (ELIC) declined a claim made on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In late 2018, Mr S took out a pet insurance policy with ELIC to provide cover for his dog D. 
He applied for the policy online.
In January 2021, Mr S submitted a claim for treatment for Ds eye ulcers, which had recently 
been diagnosed by his vet. ELIC reviewed Ds medical history and declined the claim. It said 
the history showed that D was previously noted as having an eye condition in November 
2015. It said that if this material fact had been disclosed when Mr S took out the policy, ELIC 
would have placed an endorsement on the policy excluding eyes and eyelids from cover.
Mr S challenged ELICs decision. He didnt think it should have reviewed the full medical 
history supplied when it had only asked to see the last three years. Ds vet sent a letter to 
ELIC stating that his recent eye ulcer wasnt related to the condition previously noted in the 
medical history. They said the condition noted in 2015 had subsequently been deemed 
insignificant and no intervention was needed.
ELIC said it maintained its position with regards to the eye condition noted in 2015. 
However, it also acknowledged that the questions asked on the insurance policy application 
form didnt give Mr S the opportunity to declare it. ELIC referred to notes on the medical 
history from November 2018 which also referred to issues with Ds eyes. It said Mr S had the 
opportunity to declare this when he took out the policy and, if he had, it would have placed 
an exclusion for eyes and sight on it.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for ELIC to have declined 
the claim because ELIC would have excluded eye conditions if Mr S had declared the eye 
condition noted in 2018. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think it was fair for ELIC to have 
changed its reasons for declining the claim. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Reasonable care
ELIC says Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation because he 
didnt declare a previous eye issue when he took out the policy. 
ELIC has referred to a general condition in the policy which says:
If your pet has suffered from an injury, illness or condition that has not been disclosed to us 
at the commencement or review of the policy, we may place an exclusion retrospectively to 
the date of inception or review.
When Mr S applied for the policy, which started in December 2018, he was asked: In the 
last 12 months, has your pet been seen by a vet (excluding vaccinations)? If so, what for and 
when? To which Mr S answered: Yes. He had an ear infection.
Ds medical history makes reference to a shadow in both eyes being noticed by Ds owner in 
May 2018 with a plan to monitor corneal opacities. Then in November 2018 its noted that 
eyes have lesions described before but no evidence of any discharge with a further note 
saying: if Owner needs to investigate further can be referred to the Ophthalmology clinic, 
but no alarming findings today.
From what I can see, Mr S applied for the policy shortly after the visit to the vet in November 
2018. Im satisfied that the question ELIC asked on the form was clear and unambiguous. 
And Mr S didnt mention Ds eye condition. So, I think it was fair for ELIC to have concluded 
that Mr S didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he applied for 
the policy. 
Qualifying misrepresentation
Ive gone on to consider whether the misrepresentation was what CIDRA describes as 
qualifying. Would it have made a difference if Mr S had declared previous concerns 
regarding Ds eyes?
ELIC has provided evidence to show that where there are eye issues, cover for eyes and 
sight would be excluded. So, if ELIC had been made aware of the issues noted by the vet, I 
think it would likely have applied an exclusion to the policy resulting in no cover being 
provided for anything related to Ds eyes. This means Im satisfied that Mr Ss 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.ELIC has treated the misrepresentation made by Mr S as careless rather than deliberate 
or reckless. I think this is fair. If a qualifying breach is careless and the insurer would have 
offered the policy but applied different terms, it can retrospectively apply those terms and 
consider the claim subject to the amended terms. So, I think it was fair for ELIC to have 
retrospectively applied the exclusion. As the exclusion results in no cover for eyes, Im also 
satisfied that it was fair for ELIC to have declined Mr Ss claim for treatment for Ds eye 
condition.
I appreciate Mr S feels it was unfair of ELIC to have given a second reason for declining the 
claim after he challenged it on the first reason it gave. But I think it was reasonable for ELIC 
to have reviewed the claim after Mr S disputed its initial decision. And for the reasons, Ive 
explained, I think ELICs decision to decline the claim was fair. So, while I understand Mr Ss 
frustration, his comments about this havent made a difference to the conclusion Ive 
reached.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman