DRN-3349315
The complaint
Ms S complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided a loan that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Ms S took out loans with Everyday Loans as follows:
Loan Start date Loan 
amountTotal 
repayment 
amountTerm Monthly 
payments
1 18/12/2017 £10,000 £22,915.20 60
months£381.92
2 19/10/2019 £10,000 £21,504.60 60
months£358.41
Ms S took out loan 1 for the purpose of debt consolidation  in other words, to repay other 
debt, which Everyday Loans settled for her before paying the balance to Ms S. She used 
loan 2 to repay the outstanding balance on loan 1 and provide her with an additional £897 
spending money.
When Ms S complained to Everyday Loans it agreed to uphold her complaint about loan 2 
and offered to take steps to put things right in respect of that loan in the way we would 
expect a lender to do in these circumstances. But it said loan 1 had been fairly lent and 
didnt agree to uphold this part of Ms Ss complaint.
Ms S didnt feel that Everyday Loans had done enough to resolve all her concerns so she 
brought her complaint to this Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt 
have provided loan 1 either. Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld and set out directions indicating what Everyday Loans should do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans disagreed with our adjudicators view. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Ms S about her income and expenses  including what she spent on 
her credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Ms Ss credit history. 
Everyday Loans verified that Ms Ss minimum monthly income was around £2,226. It also 
took into account nationally available statistics when thinking about Ms Ss likely spending 
and based on this, Everyday Loans said Ms S shouldve been able to afford the monthly 
repayment on this loan. It worked out that after using this loan for the planned debt 
consolidation it had discussed with her, Ms S should still have approximately £63 spare cash 
each month.
Like our adjudicator I think those checks were broadly proportionate. But despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Ms S had enough spare cash each month to cover 
the loan monthly repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that it couldnt rely 
on this information. Thats because what Ms S had declared was significantly at odds with 
what Everyday Loans saw in the information it had gathered during the loan application 
process. 
I say this because Everyday Loans could see from its credit checks that servicing her 
existing credit commitments took up an unsustainably large portion of Ms Ss take home pay. 
This suggested she was already over-reliant on expensive credit and struggling to manage 
her money problems. I think that concern was borne out by other information Everyday 
Loans could see on the bank statements it looked at during the loan application process. 
These showed that Ms S was often overdrawn on her current bank account and incurring 
daily overdraft fees  despite the evidence Everyday Loans saw of her reliance on other 
credit and the payments into her account by a third party. 
I think our adjudicator was right to say that all the indications were that Ms S wasnt 
managing her money well and she was already struggling financially. To my mind, it 
shouldve been apparent that Ms S probably didnt have the amount of disposable income 
that Everyday Loans calculated and the signs were that her finances were, in reality, under 
significant stress and her debt was already unmanageable. I dont think Everyday Loans was 
reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that Ms S would be able to make its 
loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that around £7,000 of the loan was 
intended for debt consolidation with the balance of around £3,292 being paid to Ms S.. But 
I think the scale of Ms Ss overall debt compared to the smaller value of the loan, would 
suggest that she would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. I dont think Everyday 
Loans was able to safely say this loan would improve her overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in her financial situation overall. So it 
shouldnt have been provided. 
I also think it was unreasonable to expect her to be able to commit to paying such a 
significant level of her income towards servicing her credit commitments, even after the 
planned debt consolidation. To my mind, Everyday Loans shouldve realised it was unlikely 
that she would be able to maintain the loan repayments at this level and so not provided this 
loan. 
In coming to my decision I've taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has 
said, including its response to our adjudicators view  but this doesnt change the outcome. 
I think Ms S would still need to pay a disproportionate amount of income towards debt 
servicing costs and Everyday Loans shouldve recognised this wasnt a sustainable position 
for her to be in. 
Looked at overall, I cant reasonably say that Everyday Loans made a fair lending 
decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think Everyday Loans was able 
to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Ms S. And so it 
shouldnt have provided it and Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
As Everyday Loans has already said it will put things right in respect of loan 2, I dont need 
to say more about this  except that Everyday Loans should take action to do what it has 
said it would if it hasnt already.  
In respect of loan 1, I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms S to repay the capital amount 
that she borrowed because she had the benefit of that lending - but she shouldnt repay 
more than this. 
Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms S received as a result of having been given 
loan 1. The repayments Ms S made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms S having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms S bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she still needs further time to pay what she 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Ms Ss credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So 
Everyday Loans should remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ss credit 
file regarding loan 1. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Ms Ss complaint about loan 1 and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman