DRN-3236490
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his motor insurance broker, Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited as when he cancelled the cover the adviser he spoke to was rude and didnt explain 
that £20 of what he had paid would be kept as its arrangement fee.
What happened
Mr H called to cancel his cover on 3 September 2021, before it was due to start on 
5 September. He wasnt happy with the way the advisor spoke to him, And it was only after 
the cancellation had been processed that he was told £20 of what he had paid would be 
kept. Mr H complained and Hastings accepted he had received poor service. It apologised 
and said it would refund the arrangement fee and pay him a further £20 compensation. 
Mr H remained unhappy. And when he complained to us on 10 September, he said he 
hadnt received the policy refund or any compensation yet. Hastings confirmed the policy 
refund had been paid the day Mr H had called it, with the compensatory arrangement fee 
refund being paid on 9 September. It confirmed the remaining compensation had since been 
paid. Our investigator felt the compensation Hastings had paid, along with its apology was a 
fair and reasonable remedy for its failings. So he wasnt minded to make it do anything more. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the findings. He said it was unclear how we could think Hastings had 
done nothing wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings has accepted that it gave Mr H a poor service. And Im satisfied that was the case. 
That shouldnt have happened, and I can understand why Mr H was upset and frustrated. 
But having established there was a failure which caused distress and inconvenience, this 
service has to think about what fairly and reasonably makes up for that. Here I note 
Hastings failures occurred within one call and it acted swiftly to both accept its failings and 
apologise for them. It also refunded the arrangement fee it was otherwise entitled to keep as 
well as paying further compensation. In the circumstances, I think all that fairly and 
reasonably makes up for the impact its failures had on Mr H.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman
