DRN-2909758
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the length of time it took for Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
to send him his deeds after he redeemed his mortgage.
What happened
Mr H held a mortgage with Barclays which he repaid on 8 February 2021. Mr H says that 
according to a Barclays representative he shouldve received the deeds to his property 
between seven and ten days after that. 
Mr H didnt receive the deeds in the timescale he expected and hes explained that he had to 
chase Barclays several times by phone  often waiting on hold. He eventually received the 
deeds on 25 March 2021.
Mr H made a complaint to Barclays about the delay and the poor service hed received. 
Barclays accepted that thered been a delay and it had been inconvenient for Mr H to have 
to contact it on a number of occasions, and paid Mr H £100 in compensation to recognise 
this.
Mr H didnt agree with the resolution Barclays offered so he brought the complaint to this 
service. In his complaint to us Mr H said that the way this situation had damaged his 
financial plans had had a larger impact on him than Barclays had recognised, and he 
explained that he expected £1000 in compensation to compensate him for this. 
Our investigator thought about Mr Hs complaint but he didnt think Barclays needed to do 
anything else to put things right. He noted that Barclays had accepted that things had gone 
wrong, and he asked Mr H about the way the delays had affected him. Mr H explained that 
the situation had affected a private plan to borrow money but he wasnt willing to give any 
further details or provide evidence of this. So based on the information he had, the 
investigator thought that the £100 Barclays had already paid adequately recognised the level 
of inconvenience Mr H had experienced.
As Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision and bring matters to a close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I should start by explaining that theres no dispute about whether something went wrong 
here  Barclays accepts that. In summary, Mr H repaid his mortgage on 8 February 2021, 
but didnt receive the deeds for his property until 25 March 2021. Mr H and Barclays both 
agree this took longer than it should have.
What I need to think about is the level of inconvenience this caused to Mr H  and the impact 
it had on him. 
Mr H has explained he needed to chase Barclays several times in relation to this matter. I do 
accept that Mr H mayve had to call Barclays more times than he mightve liked, and it also 
seems that mayve been given some conflicting or different information in relation to how 
long it shouldve taken to receive the deeds. But I also have to keep in mind that dealing with 
most large organisations in relation financial matters does usually cause some sort of 
inconvenience. So whilst I completely understand that this situation wouldve been frustrating 
and inconvenient for Mr H, from what Ive been told I dont think that the level of 
inconvenience caused was significantly over and above what Id usually expect in this sort of 
situation. 
In relation to the date that Mr H received the deeds themselves, as Ive said, Barclays 
accepts that there was a delay. I can see that after Mr H redeemed the mortgage, it took 
around two weeks for Barclays to release the charge on his property  which I dont think is 
unreasonable. Barclays wrote to Mr H to confirm this had been done on 23 February 2021, 
and it asked him to return a form giving details of where it should send the deeds to. 
Barclays says this was done by 1 March 2021.
From this point I think its reasonable to say the deeds shouldve been sent to Mr H within 
two weeks. I can see from Barclays notes that it needed to retrieve the deeds from an 
archive, and there was a backlog in doing this, which is presumably what caused the further 
delay of just over a week. The deeds were sent to Mr H on 23 March 2021, and hes 
confirmed he received them on 25 March 2021.
Having thought about this, as well as what Mr H has said, I again understand how frustrating 
this mustve been for Mr H. But Im not persuaded that this caused Mr H to lose out, 
financially or otherwise.  I cant see that there was ever a guarantee given to Mr H about 
when hed receive the deeds, and he hasnt given me any details related to how this delay 
has caused him to change his plans which he says led to a financial loss. So Im satisfied 
that the £100 Barclays has paid adequately reflects the inconvenience and poor service it 
offered to Mr H, but Barclays doesnt need to compensate Mr H any further.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman