DRN-3949480
The complaint
Mr D complains TSB Bank plc unfairly blocked his accounts.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. But not to the extent Mr D would like. I accept Mr D 
will be disappointed with my decision and I do understand, given his point of view, his 
strength of feeling. I must, however, approach this matter objectively. And I can assure Mr D 
(and TSB) that while I may not have commented on everything (such as Mr Ds other 
complaint against TSB, and Mr D emailing a copy of his passport to TSB on 
18 February 2021) I have carefully considered all the evidence available to me.
Mr D held many Spend and Save accounts with TSB. Under certain conditions, each 
account could earn £5 cashback a month for six months. I think Mr D would agree  and in 
any case from his statements and the number of accounts he held, I find  he took 
advantage of this cashback scheme by opening accounts purely for the cashback. TSB 
accepts  and I agree  there was nothing wrong with him doing do. But the number of 
accounts Mr D held and the way he was using them was unusual.
In February 2021, TSB blocked Mr Ds accounts (including non-Spend and Save accounts) 
and said he needed to attend a branch with identification. TSB has said this was because it 
had concerns with how he was using the accounts and as part of the process for alleviating 
these concerns, it needed him to confirm his details in branch. While I accept Mr D considers 
TSBs actions here unnecessary (and suspicious); I dont find them unusual, or 
unreasonable, given Mr Ds account usage was unusual. And ordinarily, a branch visit would 
only cause an account holder a minor inconvenience.
While I accept Mr D told TSB he didnt want to attend a branch because of the pandemic, Im 
not persuaded TSB knew  or could reasonably have known  his reluctance was down to 
his serious health concerns. So I cant fairly conclude TSB was at fault for not recognising 
that a branch visit for Mr D wouldnt have been as straightforward as it would have been for 
others. I dont consider TSB at fault for the accounts not being unblocked at this time.
It wasnt until November 2021 TSB heard again about Mr Ds issues with his accounts, by 
which time his ability to earn cashback had passed. Around this time TSB could have 
become aware of Mr Ds health concerns, as Mr D referred to them in his complaint letter. In 
its final response letter TSB confirmed the position from its point of view  that Mr D still 
needed to visit a branch with identification. I cant, however, see that TSB offered an 
alternative to a branch visit. Im satisfied TSB could have done more to assist Mr D here. 
I understand Mr D attended a branch in early 2023 and his accounts were unblocked. While I 
recognise in early 2021 Covid was an important consideration given Mr Ds health, by 
November 2021, I think he could have attended a branch, like he did in early 2023, as Covid 
related matters had settled down somewhat by then. Had he done so, he could have moved 
his savings to an account with a better interest rate. It follows I cant fairly require TSB to pay 
Mr D for loss of interest on his savings.
Overall, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable  in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint  for TSB to block the accounts and keep them blocked. However, TSB ought 
reasonably to have done more to assist Mr D in November 2021. For the reasons set out 
above, I dont consider TSB responsible to Mr D for any material financial losses. 
Compensation for some of the unnecessary distress and inconvenience is appropriate. The 
investigator recommended TSB pay Mr D £250 compensation. I find that is a fair and 
reasonable amount to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr D £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman