DRN-3425099
The complaint
Mr A has complained that the broker MCE Insurance Limited mis-sold a motorbike insurance 
policy to him.
What happened
Mr A damaged his motorbike and made a claim to the insurer of the policy MCE Insurance 
Limited (MCE) sold to him. The insurer settled the claim by paying the market value of the 
motorbike. Mr A believed he should have received the value he declared the bike was worth 
when he bought the policy and which included modifications. Mr A said he spoke to MCE 
before buying the policy to make sure his insurance policy covered the modifications to his 
bike. 
MCE didnt uphold Mr As complaint. So Mr A asked us to look at things for him. Our 
Investigator asked MCE for a recording of the sales call from September 2019 but MCE said 
it was no longer available. So she based her view on the remaining information available. 
And having done so, the Investigator thought MCE hadnt mis-sold the policy to Mr A. 
Mr A didnt agree. In summary he says MCE sold him a fully comprehensive insurance policy 
but that isnt what he had. He believes he wasnt in possession of all of the information to 
make an informed decision and so the policy was mis-sold to him.
So as Mr A doesnt agree. the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made a separate complaint to the insurer about the claim settlement he received. 
So this doesnt form part of my decision. Mr A says he declared a value which he believes 
he paid a premium for  rather than the market value of his bike. As the insurer sets the 
price Mr A paid for his cover, he will need to raise this issue with the insurer. 
In the absence of the call recording from the sale of the policy, Ive looked at the remaining 
information available. MCE has provided a copy of a script which MCE says its agent would 
have followed when Mr A called to buy a policy. Key extracts from that script are set out as 
follows:
Please be advised in the event of a claim all modified parts will be replaced with 
standard manufacturers parts only.
MCE says Mr A would have been given the option to hear further details about the policy 
and if agreed, would have been advised of the following:
This is a Market Value policy, we will calculate the cost of replacing your motorcycle 
with one of a similar make, model, age, mileage and condition. We will use industry 
publications to obtain the market value of your vehicle immediately prior to the loss.
If Mr A opted to read the terms and conditions once the documents were received, MCE 
would have confirmed:
Please be aware it is your responsibility to read your documents thoroughly.
Ive looked at the policy wording which was sent to Mr A by MCE. The key sections read:
Market Value
The cost of replacing your motorcycle with one of a similar make, model, age, 
mileage and condition. We will use industry publications to obtain the market value of 
your vehicle immediately prior to the loss. In the absence of an industry publications 
value for your vehicle, we may consider using independent engineers or approved 
dealerships to obtain a market valuation. Where modifications have been made, we 
will only pay the cost of replacing parts or equipment needed for your motorcycle to 
meet the manufactures standard specification.
And;
Exceptions to Section 1 of your policy
Your policy does not cover the following:
5. Loss of/or damage to accessories, spare parts or any modifications made to your 
motorcycle
So I think MCE gave Mr A a further opportunity after the sales call to review the level of 
cover he had when he received the policy documents. I think MCE made it clear that in the 
event of loss or damage to Mr As bike, the most the insurer would pay is the market value - 
and doesnt provide cover for modifications.
I understand Mr A will be disappointed. But this means Im not upholding his complaint as I 
dont have any evidence to show MCE mis-sold a policy to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman