DRN-2143704
The complaint
Ms K is complaining that Ageas Insurance Limited didnt pay out when she had a car 
accident but instead voided her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019 Ms K used an online comparison tool and took out a new car insurance 
policy with Ageas, via a broker. One month later, Ms K was involved in a car accident. She 
didnt think the car was safe to drive so parked it and contacted Ageas to make a claim. 
Ageas spent some time looking into Ms Ks claim and in May 2019 told her that they wouldnt 
repair her car or make an offer for it  instead they were voiding her policy from the start. 
When Ms K complained, Ageas told her that theyd voided her policy because of 
misrepresentation. 
In their final response letter Ageas said Ms K had provided false documents when asked for 
proof of her no claims discount (NCD). They said this would be considered deliberate 
misrepresentation. In addition, they said theyd found Ms K had had a previous insurance 
policy cancelled  which Ms K hadnt disclosed when shed bought the policy. Ageas said 
that if theyd been aware of this they wouldnt have offered Ms K cover as it would have 
made the risk unacceptable.
Ms K wasnt happy with the outcome of her complaint so she brought it to our service. She 
says shed cancelled her previous policy because shed sold the car insured under the 
policy, and therefore she says she was right to say that she hadnt had a policy cancelled. 
And she says she sent Ageas the correct NCD documents and asked them to disregard the 
false documents.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint. His view was that Ms K been reckless when 
she told Ageas that she hadnt had a previous policy cancelled. On that basis, he said it was 
fair for Ageas to void the policy, in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Ms K didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she thought shed cancelled her 
insurance because shed sold her car. When taking out her new insurance with Ageas she 
answered their questions to the best of her knowledge. Ms K said that shed subsequently 
raised a complaint with the previous insurer about the matter as she couldnt take 
responsibility for their mistake. And she said shed been in hospital for surgery in the days 
after she thought shed cancelled her previous policy. So, she didnt think shed been 
reckless  she thought shed taken reasonable care. She asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 July 2020. In that I said that I thought Ms K had made 
a careless misrepresentation in respect of the cancellation of her previous insurance. And, I 
said, Ageas had shown that they wouldnt have insured Ms K if she hadnt made a 
misrepresentation, so I said they were entitled to void the policy. I said they should return her 
premium to her  because it was careless misrepresentation rather than deliberate or 
reckless.
Ageas replied to my provisional decision, sending evidence that theyd already returned Ms 
Ks premium, and I explained that to Ms K. 
Ms K also replied to my provisional decision. She reiterated some of the points shed made 
previously. She said she didnt receive the correspondence from her previous insurer telling 
her theyd cancelled her policy because she was in hospital at the time. And she said her 
previous insurer should have marked the cancellation as being at her request. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Im aware this will be a disappointment to Ms K Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ks 
complaint. In my provisional decision I said: 
Proof of No Claims
I can see that Ms K sent Ageas a document that she said was her proof of NCD. The 
following day, she apologised for sending an incorrect document and sent a different 
document as proof of her NCD. I cant see that theres any doubt over the validity of the 
second document. And the number of years on it matches the number of years NCD she 
claimed when she took out her policy. So, Im inclined to say Ms K didnt misrepresent her 
NCD entitlement to Ageas when she purchased her policy.
Cancellation of insurance
Im satisfied that when Ms K was buying her insurance she was asked a clear question 
about whether shed previously had insurance cancelled. I dont think theres any debate 
about this. And I think its clear she answered the question incorrectly  I can see Ms Ks 
previous insurer has confirmed that they cancelled her policy. 
So, I need to consider whether Ms K took reasonable care when she answered this 
question. 
I can understand why Ms K thought shed cancelled her insurance  Ive seen evidence 
which suggests shed sold her car in late June. And she says she told her son to cancel the 
insurance when she sold the car. I can see she told her previous insurance broker that shed 
sold the car when they called her in July 2019 to chase payment. But the insurance wasnt 
cancelled on that call because Ms K said she was too busy and would call them back  but 
she didnt. 
Ms Ks previous insurer said they didnt receive anything further from Ms K  so they 
recorded the cancellation as being caused by Ms Ks non-payment. 
Ms K says she wasnt aware of this. But Ive seen the letter Ms K was sent by recorded 
delivery in July 2018 telling her that her insurer would be cancelling the policy. And I can see 
the broker also sent Ms K a text message, tried to call her, and sent a further letter later in 
July. 
I appreciate that Ms K went into hospital in early July 2018 and so wasnt able to deal with 
the correspondence properly. But Im inclined to say that she should have been aware that thered been an issue with her payments and she should have been aware that her previous 
insurer had told her they would be cancelling her policy.  
Ms K bought her policy from Ageas over 6 months later. Given everything that had 
happened, Im inclined to say a reasonable consumer would have checked the 
circumstances of their previous cancellation. And so, Im inclined to say Ms K didnt take 
reasonable care when taking out her policy with Ageas.
But I dont think Ms Ks error was deliberate or reckless. On balance, I think whats 
happened here is that Ms K believed shed cancelled her insurance and so thought she was 
answering the question correctly. Her testimony on this point has been consistent throughout 
both Ageas investigation and ours. I think the only reason she would have known the insurer 
had cancelled the policy was from the letters that her previous insurance broker sent her. 
But she was in hospital at the time. And, in my view, these letters were focussed on 
collecting Ms Ks outstanding balance  which she would have owed even if she had 
cancelled the policy herself. At the time, Ms K wouldnt have been concerned about the 
cancellation as shed sold the car and wanted to cancel the policy anyway. And I dont think 
these letters were clear about the potential implications of that.   So, Im inclined to say Ms 
Ks answer was careless. And then I need to look at what Ageas would have done if Ms K 
had answered the question correctly.
Ageas have sent us evidence to show that they wouldnt have offered Ms K insurance theyd 
known shed previously had insurance cancelled. So theyre entitled to avoid the policy on 
that basis.
But if theyd declined to insure her, Ms K wouldnt have had to pay her premium. So, Im 
minded to say that Ageas should return Ms Ks premium to her. 
Ive thought about Ms Ks response to my provisional decision. I cant hold Ageas 
responsible for the actions of Ms Ks previous insurer and broker. I appreciate Ms K says 
she just didnt know that her insurance had been cancelled for non-payment. But, from 
everything Ive seen, Im satisfied there should have been some doubt in her mind about the 
circumstances of the cancellation of her previous insurance. So, Im satisfied a reasonable 
consumer would have checked  and therefore that Ms K didnt take reasonable care.
Im also satisfied Ageas returned Ms Ks premium to her when they voided her insurance  
so I wont be asking them to do anything further in response to Ms Ks complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint about Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman