DRN-3295898
The complaint
Mr Q complains about the service received from Nationwide Building Society during his 
porting application. He thinks an early repayment charge has been applied unfairly in the 
circumstances. 
What happened
Mr Q held a residential mortgage with Nationwide since 2017. In 2019 he applied for a new 
rate of 1.54% fixed for two years until 31 June 2021. His mortgage balance at that time was 
around £178,500.
In 2020 Mr Q wanted port his existing mortgage to a new property. He also wanted to add 
his partner to the mortgage and borrow additional funds. Mr Qs application for a decision in 
principle (DIP) in joint names with his partner was declined. So, Mr Q applied for a DIP in his 
own name. This was agreed but for a lower amount than required. 
Mr Q wanted to borrow a total of £300,000. The most Nationwide would lend in his sole 
name was £260,000. This led him to challenge the declined lending in joint names. 
Nationwide subsequently declined the porting application in its entirety at underwriting stage. 
Mr Q applied for a new mortgage elsewhere and redeemed his mortgage with Nationwide in 
February 2021. An early repayment charge of around £1,737 was applied.
Mr Q raised a complaint with Nationwide. Nationwide said the ERC had been fairly applied in 
line with the mortgage terms. This part of the complaint wasnt upheld. But Nationwide did 
pay Mr Q £150 compensation for the delay during the appeals process. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr Q brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things. He didnt think Nationwide wrongly applied an ERC and he 
thought Mr Qs complaint about the service received had been fairly settled. Mr Q didnt 
agree and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Qs 2019 offer sets out the terms of his mortgage. Those terms state that if Mr Q was to 
redeem his mortgage before the end of the fixed term, hed incur an ERC. Hed be charged 
2% on the amount repaid in the first year and 1% in the second year.
Mr Qs mortgage terms also state that he has the right to port his product to a new mortgage 
with Nationwide on another property. However, his application would be subject to 
Nationwides lending criteria at that time. 
Mr Qs porting application involved borrowing more money and adding another party to the 
mortgage. So, Nationwide needed to consider the affordability of the new mortgage. 
Lenders can use their commercial judgement about to whom to lend and on what basis if 
they act fairly and reasonably. Lending policies are something which each lender puts in
place to ensure risks remain manageable, and they are allowed a broad discretion 
provided they exercise it fairly and in line with the rules  in deciding whether or not to lend.
Mr Q was given the right to appeal the declined DIP in joint names. The appeal was 
unsuccessful, and Mr Q was provided with clear information about the reason for the refusal, 
as follows:
The credit report shows recent and historic arrears/financial stress for both parties. They are 
looking to significantly increase the current mortgage level with the new mortgage LTV being 
above 80%. This is outside Nationwide lending criteria, please note they cannot re-apply in 
sole names within 3 months based on the information that has been considered.
Nationwide wasnt prepared to lend in the circumstances which is a decision its entitled to 
make as long as its a reasonable one. Ive not seen anything to suggest Nationwide acted 
unfairly in the circumstances  lending criteria wasnt met, and the risk was one it wasnt 
reasonably willing to take on this occasion. 
In response to our investigators opinion, Mr Q says he accepts the lending decision, but he 
doesnt think Nationwide has done enough to fairly compensate him for the delay 
experienced. He wants Nationwide to, as a goodwill gesture, waive the ERC or part of it. 
Nationwide has admitted it got things wrong. I must decide is whether the things it has done 
to put things right, including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
Its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate 
consumers - not punish organisations. We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the 
consumer concerned and give careful consideration to a consumers individual 
circumstances, in determining whether any award for distress and inconvenience is 
warranted.
Mr Q says his initial offer fell through because of the delays and not being able to provide a 
DIP sooner. Mr Q provided all the necessary information for the appeal to be considered 
after working hours on 5 November 2020. The appeal was submitted on 7 November 2020. 
A lending decision was made on 19 November 2020 and an outcome provided four working 
days later on 24 November 2020. 
Nationwide accepts that Mr Q should have been given an outcome sooner, but I cant hold it 
responsible for Mr Q losing out on his chosen property. I say this because he chose to 
appeal Nationwides lending decision. That process would inevitably take some time. The 
outcome of the lending decision wasnt overturned, so I cant say Nationwide got things 
wrong from the outset. 
Nationwide says it mis-informed Mr Q about the underwriting timescales and it could have 
given him an outcome sooner. A delay of a few days occurred between a decision being 
made and the outcome being communicated. I think £150 fairly reflects any inconvenience 
this caused Mr Q during that time. 
Im satisfied that the ERC terms were set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer, 
which Mr Q accepted when he took out the mortgage. So, it is difficult for me to say that 
Nationwide cant apply the ERC that Mr Q agreed to when he took out the mortgage. And I 
wont be asking it to do so, as such an award is not proportionate in the circumstances. When considering everything I think Nationwides settlement of £150 is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and as it has already been paid to Mr Q, I dont expect Nationwide to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman