DRN-4395055
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Policy Excess Insure Ltd (PEX) handled the setting up and 
cancelling of his car insurance policy. 
What happened
PEX is the broker for Mr Ws car insurance policy, which he bought through an aggregator 
site. Before the policy started PEX called him to carry out a validation check on the 
information provided. In the call PEX also asked Mr W if he had any CCJs to which he said 
he hadnt. 
The insurer later identified that Mr W had three undisclosed CCJs and asked PEX to cancel 
the policy on its behalf, as it said it wouldnt provide cover for Mr W. PEX issued Mr W with a 
seven-day notice of cancellation via e-mail. Mr W didnt see this until a few days later, 
however, he called PEX on the day the policy was due to be cancelled and was informed it 
had already been cancelled. 
Mr W didnt think this was fair and complained, he said he hadnt been given the seven days 
notice as he should have and didnt think the letter was clear enough. He also said hed 
been told hed get a refund of premium from the insurer, but PEX has said he owes it money. 
PEX reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said due to the validation checks the 
insurer had increased the premium before the policy started and that this wasnt something it 
was responsible for. It also said Mr W had agreed to its terms of business and the charges 
applied when the policy cancelled were in line with the terms of business. PEX also said it 
had issued the seven-day notice of cancellation as it should have. Mr W didnt agree and 
brought his complaint here, he didnt agree hed failed to declare the CCJs as he wasnt 
aware of them. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and ultimately didnt uphold it. She found that PEX 
had let Mr W know the policy premium may change following the validation checks and that 
it had issued the seven-day notice of cancellation as it should have. She also found the 
policy cancelled at 23:59 on the sixth day following the cancellation notice, and so it had 
cancelled in seven days time as Mr W had been notified. She also found the charges 
applied by PEX for cancelling the policy were in line with its terms of business. 
Mr W didnt agree for similar reasons. So, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I feel it would help to explain what I can and cant consider in this complaint. Mr W has 
raised concerns about his car insurance policy and how much he owes PEX. The decision to 
cancel Mr Ws car insurance policy was done by the insurer, also the return of premium is 
set by the insurer. Mr W chose to pay for his policy monthly through a credit agreement with 
another company, who also charged a cancellation fee. The charges by the insurer and 
finance provider, and the decision to cancel, arent ones PEX made. Im therefore unable to 
consider them in this decision. 
Its terms of business say PEX will carry out a validation check before the policy goes live 
and that the check may result in a premium increase. I can see this was carried out and Mr 
W did incur a premium increase. I understand Mr W is unhappy about the premium increase, 
however as that was applied by his insurer its not something I can make a finding on in this 
decision.
PEX has also shown that the insurer identified three undisclosed CCJs and asked PEX to 
issue a seven-day notice of cancellation. PEX has provided a copy of the e-mail it sent Mr W 
and the attached letter which says his policy will be cancelled in seven days time. And while 
I cant see if another notice of cancellation was sent, I am aware Mr W received this and 
called PEX to question it. Mr W said this was due to the letter implying the cancellation could 
be stopped. I do think the letter could have been clearer and it would have been good 
industry practice for Mr W to have been sent more than one notice of his policy being 
cancelled. However, Mr W spoke with PEX on the sixth day and so he was aware his policy 
was going to cancel before it did. 
Mr W also said PEX told him in the call that his policy had already been cancelled, however I 
can see the policy didnt cancel until 23:59 that night. Im therefore satisfied Mr Ws policy 
cancelled in line with the notice he received in writing. So, even if incorrect information was 
given during the call, I dont believe that PEX needs to do anything else.  
Ive also looked at the charges PEX has applied to Mr Ws policy. PEX has charged Mr W a 
£75 cancellation fee and £180.94 commission claw back. Ive checked the terms of business 
and can see the cancellation fee is clearly set out and says it is £75. The terms also explain 
PEX will retain 15% of any premium refund, as a commission rebate. So, while Mr W doesnt 
agree with what PEX has charged, Im satisfied its applied the charges in line with its terms 
of business and that the amount it will retain was clearly explained when he bought the 
policy. Im therefore not going to tell PEX to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman