DRN-3110850
The complaint
Miss R complains that MBNA Limited lent to her irresponsibly when it increased her credit 
card limit in December 2017. She further complains that MBNA allowed her to make 
significant money transfers after that time. 
What happened
Miss R had two MBNA credit cards. The first account (Account 1) was opened on 7 May 
2016 with a credit limit of £3,000. The second account (Account 2) was opened on 12 
August 2016 with a credit limit of £4,000. The credit limit for Account 2 was never increased. 
In April 2017 and at Miss Rs request, MBNA agreed to increase her credit limit to £6,000. 
Miss R then immediately used the card to make a money transfer of £5,250. 
In December 2017, MBNA increased Miss Rs credit limit to £8,100. The increase had not 
been requested by Miss R. But when it was applied to her account, Miss R made a further 
money transfer of £1,900. 
In May 2018, Miss R contacted MBNA to say she was in financial difficulties. She entered 
into a debt management programme in or around February 2019. MBNA defaulted both 
accounts shortly thereafter.  
In April 2021, Miss R complained to this service. She said she had only ever made minimum 
repayments to her cards and she was using a high level of her credit limit. She told us she 
had taken out a lot of credit to make ends meet while she was on maternity leave. She 
estimated her monthly credit repayments to exceed £1,000 per month. She said MBNA 
should have known she was in financial difficulty because she had missed some 
repayments. 
Our investigator looked at all of this and agreed with Miss R that MBNA should not have 
increased her credit limit in December 2017. He said that MBNA should have seen Miss R 
had opened a new credit card in November 2017 and was almost up to that limit 
straightaway. However, he didnt think MBNA had to undertake checks every time Miss R 
made a money transfer. 
MBNA did not agree with our investigators view. It said that the new credit card Miss R took 
out in November 2017 would not have shown up on checks and it was not unusual for 
customers to use move funds between cards to get a better interest rate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive also taken account of the relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice that 
applied at the relevant time. 
I have upheld the complaint to the same extent as our investigator. Ill explain why below. 
In her complaint, Miss R said she was not happy with the credit limit that was applied to her 
account in December 2017. So, that is what I have looked at in this decision. 
MBNA is required to lend responsibly. What that means in practice is it must check that Miss 
R could affordably and sustainably repay the credit. These checks would need to be 
proportionate. So what MBNA checked in Miss Rs case would depend on a number of 
things such as: what it knew about her and how she managed her accounts, her overall 
credit limit and how much she would have to pay each month (including additional interest 
and charges). There is no set list of checks MBNA had to do. 
Before it decided to offer Miss R a credit limit increase, MBNA says it checked a consumer 
indebtedness index with a credit reference agency. As our investigator said, this was a risk-
based check and did not provide MBNA with information about how Miss R was managing 
her finances at the point the increased credit limit was offered. 
Miss R had two credit cards with MBNA. So when it increased the credit limit for Account 1, 
MBNA wasnt just increasing Miss Rs limit to £8,100. Her total credit limit across both 
accounts would have been £12,100.  I dont think MBNA should have viewed Account 1 in 
isolation. It had information about how Miss R managed her finances more generally through 
its records with Account 2. I think it should have considered how she managed both 
accounts before it decided to increase her credit limit.
With that in mind, I can see that up to the point of the credit limit increase in December 2017, 
Miss R used both of her accounts exclusively to make significant money transfers. This is 
different to a balance transfer in which a balance would be directly transferred from one card 
to another to get a better interest rate.
MBNA told us it wasnt unusual for Miss R to move funds between cards to get a better 
interest rate. That isnt what Miss R was doing here. She was using her credit card to access 
significant cash sums. MBNA could not know how Miss R used those funds once they had 
been transferred from her card. But it could have indicated that Miss R needed access to a 
lot of cash very quickly. Or that she was using those funds to repay significant debts. Either 
way, I think it wouldve been proportionate, given the circumstances here, for MBNA to have 
asked more about the reason behind these before lending.
I say this because when Account 1 was opened, Miss R made a money transfer almost up to 
her credit limit. The same thing happened when she opened Account 2. She then made 
minimum repayments effectively to service the debts. I accept that she did repay the balance 
in full at some point. But when she requested a credit limit increase in April 2017, she quickly 
made a further money transfer almost up to her credit limit.  In that month and across both 
Account 1 and Account 2, Miss R transferred over £9,000 in cash to her account. It seems to 
me this pattern should have indicated to MBNA that Miss R could well have difficulty in 
sustainably repaying her borrowing. The evidence did not suggest she was making inroads 
into the debt. 
I also note that three late fees were applied to Account 1 immediately after the credit limit 
increase and the money transfers in April 2017. MBNA does not consider these late fees to 
indicate Miss R had difficulties in managing her account because her payments were only a 
day late each time. I disagree. I cant reasonably say that three consecutive missed 
payments all of which incurred late fees were not of significance, especially when considered 
alongside some of the other factors Ive mentioned here.
It follows then that I cant say that relying on the consumer indebtedness check MBNA 
undertook was proportionate in the particular circumstances of this case. Im satisfied MBNA 
should have reasonably undertaken further checks. 
Had it done so, I think MBNA would have concluded that the credit limit increase in 
December 2017 was not sustainable. Miss R had told MBNA her income was £24,500 in 
April 2017 and thats consistent with what we know about her take home pay being around 
£1,600 month. She was entitled to child benefit of roughly £82 every four weeks. Miss R told 
us she was on maternity leave at the point of the credit limit increase. I accept that her pay did not appear to have reduced by that point, but MBNA could have reasonably expected her 
pay to go down in the months following the increased credit limit. 
Miss R told us that her partner was unemployed and that their rent liability was £1,150. I can 
see from the credit report that her utility and telephone liability at the relevant time was 
around £300 a month. When MBNA increased her credit limit, the minimum payment Miss R 
would have had to make across two MBNA accounts would have been around £175 each 
month. She also had a loan with an outstanding balance of around £7,000 and it looks as 
though her repayments towards that borrowing were around £200 per month. 
Our investigator said that in November 2017, Miss R had opened another credit card 
account and that the balance on that card was £7,000 in the first month and at the point 
MBNA increased her credit limit a month later. In response, MBNA said its checks in 
December 2017 would not necessarily have shown a new credit card account that Miss R 
had opened in November 2017. 
But even without taking account of the new credit card, for the reasons set out above, I think 
a proportionate check would have shown that Miss Rs outgoings were likely to be more than 
her income. That is without taking account of what she would need to spend on groceries or 
the additional costs I would expect with a baby. 
With all of this in mind, had MBNA undertaken proportionate checks, I am satisfied it would 
have concluded Miss R could not sustainably repay her credit card debt in respect of 
Account 1 when the limit was increased to £8,100. That means MBNA will need to take 
action to put things right.
Money transfers 
Miss R complained that MBNA should have undertaken proportionate checks every time she 
made a money transfer. I agree with our investigator that once the credit limit had been 
agreed, MBNA did not have to check each transaction when Miss R used her account.   
In my view, the point at which proportionate checks should have been undertaken is when 
MBNA decided the credit limit. This is the amount it should have been satisfied that Miss R 
could sustainably repay. As long as Miss R was within her credit limit, I cant say it would 
have been proportionate for MBNA to undertake detailed checks for each large transaction 
she made. To do so would undermine the use of the card. For example, it would be difficult 
to see how a consumer would be able to use their credit card for a large transaction in a 
shop if MBNA was required to undertake the checks Miss R suggests. But as Ive explained 
above, I do think these transactions were relevant in assessing the affordability here. 
Putting things right
I understand the debt in respect of Account 1 may have been sold to a third party. If that is 
the case, MBNA must buy that debt back and follow the steps I have set out below. If it is not 
possible to buy the debt back, it must liaise with the third party to achieve the outcome I 
have set out below. 
Rework the account removing any interest and charges applied to any balance above 
£6,000 in respect of Account 1 from 22 December 2017 onwards; 
Apply the refund to the outstanding balance of Account 1; 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded along with 8% simple 
interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, then MBNA 
should arrange an affordable repayment with Miss R. 
*HMRC requires MBNA to deduct tax from this interest. It must give Miss R a certificate 
saying how much tax it has deducted if Miss R requests it. My final decision
My decision is that MBNA Limited should not have applied the credit limit increase to 
Account 1 in December 2017. I require MBNA Limited to put things right as I have set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman