DRN-3125072
The complaint
Miss H complains that Snap Finance LTD, trading as Snap Finance irresponsibly gave her a 
loan she couldnt afford.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss H bought some furniture using a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Snap Finance. The cash price of the goods was £1,000. She was required to make 13 
repayments of around £125 per month, with a total repayable of around £1,600.
Miss H made 11 repayments toward the agreement but stopped paying in March 2020. She 
raised a complaint with Snap Finance to say the agreement was unaffordable to her from the 
outset. Snap Finance didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. It said that Miss H had declared 
an income of £1,300 from benefits which was verified using credit reference agency data. It 
said it completed a credit check which showed all of her existing credit commitments were 
up to date. It noted she had several historic county court judgements but the last of these 
was issued in 2016. It said its checks showed Miss H could afford the loan.
I sent Miss H and Snap Finance my provisional decision on 21 September 2021. I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Before granting credit, Snap Finance were required to complete affordability checks on 
Miss Hs ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. There isnt a set list of checks 
Snap Finance had to complete, however it had to ensure its checks were proportionate. 
What is proportionate will depend on a number of factors, such as (but not limited to): the 
total amount repayable, the size of the repayments, the term, the cost of the borrowing and 
the consumers individual circumstances.
Snap Finance says it completed a credit check and asked Miss H about her income (as well 
as verifying this income with a credit reference agency). It knew that she received around 
£1,300 income each month and that this was made up of benefits. I can see from the 
application data that Miss H also said she was solely responsible for most or all of the 
household bills. The amount Miss H was being asked to repay each month was around 10% 
of her declared monthly income.
I note that Snap Finance found that Miss H had previously had some county court 
judgements, but it said these were several years ago. However, the results of its credit 
checks showed that Miss H still owed around £2,000 towards these debts. I cant see that 
Snap Finance took into consideration what she might have been paying towards these.
While Miss H only appeared to have three other credit commitments which were all 
telecommunications accounts, Snap Finance had no idea of how much Miss H was paying 
towards these commitments. So, given the outstanding balances on her court judgements, 
the three telecommunications accounts, her relatively low income and the size of the 
monthly repayments in relation to that income, I dont think Snap Finance carried out 
proportionate checks in the specific circumstances of this case.
I think Snap Finance ought to have got a better understanding of Miss Hs regular 
expenditure in order to work out whether she could sustainably repay the borrowing. I cant 
be sure what questions or what evidence Snap Finance would have asked. In the absence 
of anything else, Ive reviewed copies of Miss Hs bank statements from the time of the 
application to get an understanding of her financial situation.
Im not saying Snap Finance were required to ask for bank statements from Miss H, 
however, I think they give a good indication of what Snap Finance would likely have found 
out about her expenditure if it had completed proportionate affordability checks. These show 
that Miss Hs monthly income was a little higher than she had declared  around £1,600. It 
also shows her regular committed monthly expenditure to be around £300.
That expenditure figure doesnt include costs for food, travel or household essentials nor 
does it include repayments towards the judgement debt. Had Snap Finance found this too, 
I think its more likely than not it would have still concluded Miss H had enough disposable 
income to meet those additional expenses and pay for the new loan in a sustainable way.
I note the adjudicator highlighted that Miss Hs expenditure was higher than this, and she did 
spend more money than I have highlighted. However, Snap Finance only needed to be 
concerned with what was essential and/or committed expenditure. Ive considered that 
Miss H likely wanted the loan approved as it was for the purchase of furniture, so I think its 
unlikely she would have declared essential expenditure which exceeded her income, had 
Snap Finance asked her.
Ive also not seen anything from Miss Hs bank statements which persuades me that her 
essential and committed expenditure did exceed her income. Instead, it appears she had 
sufficient disposable income to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable way. Had 
Snap Finance asked Miss H about her expenditure as I think it ought to have done, Im not 
persuaded it would have found the loan to be unaffordable or unsustainable. For that reason, 
I dont think Snap Finance acted unfairly or unreasonably in approving the loan.
Neither Miss H nor Snap Finance responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence to provide, Ive seen no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman