DRN-3855537
The complaint
 Mr L complains that ReAssure Limited has managed the funds invested in his personal 
pension poorly, causing him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr L has a flexi-access drawdown pension plan with ReAssure. In May 2022, Mr L 
complained to ReAssure about the performance of the funds in which his personal pension 
was invested. In its final response of 12 July 2022, ReAssure said Mr L had a unit-linked 
policy where the value of the plan can go down as well as up. ReAssure said the majority of 
Mr Ls pension was invested in its UK and Global Equity Tracker fund (invested in stocks 
and shares) with the rest invested in its Corporate Bond fund. Because of this, ReAssure 
said value of Mr Ls policy would depend on the performance of financial markets and the 
funds his policy was invested in. ReAssure told Mr L he needed to make sure his investment 
fund choice continued to be appropriate to his attitude to investment risk, and he may wish to 
consider switching some or all of his investment into less risky funds to protect its value from 
stock market fluctuations.
Mr L responded to ReAssure to say its letter was incorrect and the majority of his funds are 
invested in the Corporate Bond fund and only 35% of his funds are invested in the Tracker 
fund. Mr L said the Corporate Bond fund had decreased in value despite Mr L being told it 
was low risk. 
Mr L referred his complaint to our Service to review. Mr L added ReAssure was late in 
delivering its July 2022 update. One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Ls complaint but didnt 
uphold it. He said:
We cant consider Mr Ls complaint that ReAssure was late in delivering its July 2022 
update as part of this complaint. This was because this issue was raised after 
ReAssures final response of 12 July 2022, so Mr L would need to raise this as a new 
complaint with ReAssure if he still wants it to be investigated. 
A low-risk fund or investment strategy can still result in losses. Financial markets were 
impacted by recent global events and this had impacted the performance of Mr Ls 
pension funds. He didnt think the poor performance Mr L complained about was a result 
of ReAssures mis-management of his pension funds. 
Mr L holds more units in ReAssures Corporate Bond fund. ReAssure had since clarified 
the majority of Mr Ls funds were invested into its Corporate Bond fund. He thought 
ReAssure was trying to explain to Mr L that he held a significant proportion of his funds 
in the Tracker fund. 
Mr L disagreed with our Investigators opinion, reiterating ReAssure made a mistake in its 
final response. Mr L said he was told low-risk funds may lose value due to the effects of 
inflation, but his funds have dropped up to 23% in value. Mr L added his funds had 
performed badly over a long period of time and he wants an ombudsman to review the 
performance of his funds to date. Mr L added ReAssure should not have considered its 
Corporate Bond fund to be a low, level 2 risk fund because corporate bonds were unlikely 
to perform well with rising interest rates in financial markets. So, this has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not upheld this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
Investigator.
Ill first deal with ReAssures error in its final response. Mr L held more units in the Corporate 
Bond fund, which in total were worth more than the units held in the Tracker fund. So, 
I agree with Mr L that ReAssure made a mistake here. However, Ive not seen its caused 
Mr L any financial loss and its clear Mr L was aware of the correct position. I also think the 
broader point ReAssure were trying to make here  that the value of Mr Ls pension funds 
will be affected by the performance of the financial markets in which his funds are invested  
remains valid. This leads me to Mr Ls complaint about the performance of his funds.
I note Mr L wants me to review the value of his plan to date. I do not have the power to 
consider ReAssures actions after it issued its final response on 12 July 2022, so I cant 
comment on Mr Ls concerns about his funds since then. If Mr L wants to do so, he can 
make a new complaint to ReAssure about its actions since 13 July 2022  and he may be 
able to refer ReAssures final response to his complaint to our Service to review.
Ive considered the performance of Mr Ls pension plan until 12 July 2022. However, Ive not 
reviewed the performance of Mr Ls pension fund in any forensic detail as Ive seen no 
evidence from Mr L to show ReAssure his mis-managed his pension funds  his 
unhappiness with the performance of his funds isnt evidence in itself that ReAssure has 
done anything wrong. And Im not aware of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, 
having any concerns about the way ReAssure manages its pension funds. 
ReAssure has provided the quarterly performance of Mr Ls plan since 16 August 2017, 
when the plan was valued at £95,089.46. Since then, Mr L has drawn down funds totalling 
£48,790, leaving Mr Ls plan valued at £48,887.30 on 18 April 2019. From then, the value of 
Mr Ls plan rose steadily until the 18 April 2020, after the coronavirus pandemic began. 
Mr Ls plan rose again, with some fluctuations in value, until April 2022. This correlates with 
a global fall in the value of financial markets after the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine. 
And whilst I note Mr Ls concerns that investing in bonds has become riskier in recent years, 
it remains that bonds are generally considered to be lower risk investments. But whilst bonds 
are lower risk, they are not risk-free so, as Mr L has found, it is possible for funds invested in 
bonds to fall in value as they have in recent years. So, Im not persuaded theres any 
evidence that indicates ReAssure his mis-managed Mr Ls pension fund, causing the losses 
hes complained about.
I note Mr L says ReAssure doesnt offer the facility to monitor investments online, and its 
statements give the value of his pension funds in cash, not in units purchased. I dont have 
the power to tell ReAssure to provide an online facility or change how it presents its 
statements. If Mr L wants these facilities, he may wish to look into transferring his pension to 
another provider that can provide them.
In response to our Investigators opinion, Mr L said he wants ReAssure to guarantee the 
performance of his funds in line with the literature he was presented with, which indicated 
the Corporate Bond fund, in particular, is low risk. I note Mr L has said he doesnt want to change his investment strategy but wants ReAssure to guarantee his funds perform in line 
with a low risk fund. But this isnt a savings account with a guaranteed rate  its a pension 
invested into funds that may rise or fall in value. So, Mr Ls pension fund is not risk-free, 
regardless of how the funds are invested. And whilst its unfortunate Mr Ls fund hasnt 
performed as well as he hoped, for the reasons outlined above, Ive seen nothing that 
suggests ReAssure mis-managed his pension funds.
Mr L said he feels this fund has been badly mis-sold. However, I cant see Mr L has 
complained to ReAssure about his pension being mis-sold or complained about the product 
literature it provided him with before he made his fund selections. Mr L may wish to make 
this new complaint to ReAssure, but Im unable to consider a complaint that Mr Ls pension 
was mis-sold here. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Ive not upheld this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman