DRN-3316309
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the recording of the bedrooms in his property and other issues 
to his broker, Saga Services Limited when it arranged a home insurance policy for him.
What happened
Mr S received a renewal invitation from his broker, Saga in November 2020. He contacted
Saga as he said it showed his property as having two bedrooms, but he said the deeds 
showed the property as having one bedroom and a study. Mr S asked for clarification of the
underwriters listed in the policy wording as he believed one of them was outside of the panel
of insurers Saga used to provide insurance.
Saga replied to Mr S. It explained the relationship between the lead insurer and a co-insurer,
said parts of the policy related to Legal Expenses cover which Mr S hadnt bought  and
provided its policy definition of a bedroom. In his reply to Saga, Mr S raised a further series
of questions about the policy documents hed received.
As the renewal date was approaching, he wanted to discuss his renewal premium with Saga
on a specific date with a view to renewing his policy  pending the outcome to the questions
he asked. Mr S spoke to Saga after this date on two occasions and was unhappy with the
outcome of the calls. He renewed his policy through Saga but he raised a complaint. Mr S
wasnt satisfied Saga had answered the questions hed raised. He found that in his renewal
acceptance documents, his property was still listed as being a two bedroomed home. Under
the Statement of Insurance, Saga wrote that Mr S told it his property had no history of
subsidence. Mr S was unhappy with this statement as he said it hadnt shown in previous
renewal documents. He said that he had accepted the renewal of his policy based on the
invitation and wanted the subsidence statement removed.
In January 2021 Saga replied to Mr Ss complaint. It said it would have set up the policy
since 2015 based on what Mr S had told it. But as it couldnt locate the original sales call, it
said it would backdate the change of bedrooms from two to one. It provided Mr S with a
refund for the difference in premium hed paid since 2015 and for the current policy year. It
apologised for not calling Mr S back and it agreed one of the calls hadnt been handled as
well as it expected. It explained that the letter Mr S sent hadnt been uploaded onto their
systems when hed called and so the agents didnt have all the information.
For the inconvenience its poor service had caused Mr S, Saga paid him £30 compensation.
It sent Mr S revised renewal documents showing his property as having one bedroom. Saga
didnt address Mr Ss query about the subsidence statement. This statement remained in the
revised documents showing a one bedroom property.
There was further back and forth between Mr S and Saga. Mr S remained unhappy and
asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator thought that overall Saga had answered Mr Ss questions and the
compensation and refund of premiums it had paid was fair and reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 January 2022. I addressed a complaint Mr S had raised 
about the renewal invitation and its wording about subsidence which Saga hadnt responded 
to when it replied to his complaint. I thought Saga had caused some confusion by not 
providing the same information about subsidence in the renewal invitation as it did in the 
renewal documentation when Mr S agreed to renew the policy. But I found that most  if not 
all insurers ask about any history of subsidence  and so I thought it more likely than not that 
Mr S would have bought a policy in any event. Saga offered £100 compensation for the 
confusion its documentation had caused and I thought this was fair to resolve this complaint. 
So I intended to uphold this complaint in part. 
I thought Saga had otherwise reasonably dealt with Mr Ss complaint. 
Saga accepted my provisional decision. Mr S said my provisional decision deals with matters 
not raised in Sagas final response letter or his claim form. Hes asked for clarification as to 
whether the £100 compensation in my provisional decision is in relation to letters he wrote to 
Saga in October 2021 and December 2021  to which it has replied in January 2022. 
Mr S says he didnt buy a policy  referring to this year  as he wasnt satisfied with the 
response he received from Saga in relation to his new complaint. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is along the same lines as my provisional decision. 
I can confirm the £100 compensation in my provisional decision relates to Mr Ss complaint 
to Saga which it responded to in January 2021. 
As Saga wasnt able to show the answer Mr S gave when he first applied for a home
insurance policy in 2015, it couldnt say if Mr S or Saga had recorded the property as having
two bedrooms.
So Saga decided to backdate the change to show Mr Ss property as a one bedroomed
home  and arranged for the premiums to be recalculated retrospectively.
Saga as the broker doesnt determine the price of a policy. This is something the insurer
decides. An insurers pricing is commercially sensitive information  and so it cant be shared
with customers. However, Saga has provided us with a breakdown of the premium
difference which Mr S has seen. Im satisfied that Saga has provided Mr S with a breakdown
in line with the sums set out by the insurer. So I think Saga has acted reasonably here.
Mr S was concerned that an insurer wasnt recorded with the other approved insurers on
Sagas panel list and elsewhere in his policy documents. Saga has explained that the insurer
Mr S referred to is a co - insurer of the underwriter listed on Mr Ss policy documents.
I think Saga clarified the relationship between the insurer of Mr Ss policy and the co-insurer
he enquired about. The underwriter represents the insurer and determines the risks for the
insurer under the contract. The insurer provides the policy and deals with any claims made.
It isnt unusual for the underwriter to be mentioned in the policy  but the insurer is usuallythe primary contact for a customer.
The Statement of Insurance in the renewal acceptance documents Saga sent to Mr S says
the following:
You have told usthe insured property has no history or any signs of subsidence,
ground heave or landslip.
In response to the Investigators view, Mr S said this statement wasnt in the renewal 
invitation documents he received. And it was on the basis of those documents that he 
accepted renewal. So he doesnt think its fair for Saga to have included this statement 
afterwards in the renewal acceptance documents. He says that if he were to make a claim 
for subsidence and there was a history of subsidence, his claim could be declined for 
misrepresentation  based on this statement. Mr S says hes checked his documents from 
previous years and they do not include this statement.
Although Saga didnt address this complaint in its response to Mr S in January 2021, I can 
see that it was part of his complaint to Saga. So as I explained in my provisional decision, I 
considered this complaint  and Sagas subsequent responses on this point. 
In March 2021 Saga said it has always questioned about subsidence and this information
has been recorded on Mr Ss policy history from the outset. But it agreed that there was no
reference to subsidence in the renewal invitation and apologised for this. It said it had given
feedback to the relevant department for review.
Mr S wanted to await the outcome of the review and asked if Saga would extend the six
month deadline it gave when replying to his complaint.
Saga said it wouldnt always be able to give an update on feedback raised. It didnt agree to
extend the timeframe for Mr S to contact this service.
Saga has explained that it no longer has the initial sales call  so it cant show what it asked
Mr S when he bought the policy first in 2015 and/or what his answer was to any question
about subsidence. It has however provided a screenshot from 2015 which shows the
following:
Subsidence, heave or landslip  no
Followed by a question:
Is there or has there ever been signs of subsidence, heave or landslip at your
property?
Saga was however able to locate a letter Mr S wrote to Saga in October 2015 where he
expanded on the questions asked of him when he bought the policy. He explained that hed
bought the property in 2001 and provided extracts from the Surveyor report in relation to any
movement to the property.
We asked Saga for further information as this seemed to show that Mr S had provided
details which were accepted by Saga and cover was provided. We also asked Saga to
provide an explanation as to why its documentation was inconsistent  as the renewal
invitation didnt include a statement about subsidence  but the renewal documents did.
Saga says due to the passage of time it no longer holds further information from when it sold
the policy to Mr S in 2015. It said due to a system change, the renewal documents includedthe subsidence statement  and this was based on the original information provided by Mr S
when he applied for a policy in 2015. It says it isnt able to remove the question from its
documentation. However, Mr S didnt arrange the most recent renewal of his policy through
Saga. And it acknowledges that due to Mr Ss concerns, the policy it arranged may no longer
meet his needs. So for the distress and inconvenience caused, Saga has asked us to
forward its offer of £100 compensation to Mr S in relation to this complaint.
Ive considered what the impact was of failing to provide the subsidence statement in the
renewal invitation. It isnt unusual for an insurer to ask a question about the history of any
movement in a property when a customer applies for a policy. Had Saga confirmed the
statement regarding subsidence in previous documents, Ive considered what Mr S would
have done and if he would have acted differently. I think Mr S would have either decided to
accept the statement and proceeded with the policy  or he would have chosen not to and
bought a policy elsewhere.
So  I think Mr S would have bought a policy in any event. Mr s says he hasnt bought a 
policy at renewal this year. However, my decision refers to matter up to January 2021. I 
appreciate that Mr S was concerned about what would have been the outcome if hed made 
a subsidence claim and the property was found to have a history of subsidence. Hes of the 
view that his claim would most likely have been rejected due to misrepresentation on his 
part.
But I can only consider what happened. Saga had on record a letter from Mr S showing that
he provided further information about his property in relation to the subsidence question -
and cover was arranged in 2015. So while I think Saga has caused some worry and
inconvenience, I dont think Mr S has been disadvantaged by the error Saga made in not
disclosing the subsidence statement in the renewal invite.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld in part. I think
Saga should pay Mr S a further £100 compensation in addition to the £30 it paid. This is for
the confusion and worry it caused by failing to include the subsidence statement in the
renewal invite to Mr S  consistent with the renewal acceptance documents it provided.
I understand Mr S doesnt agree, but I think Saga has reasonably answered his remaining 
questions and provided a refund of any overpaid premium Mr S paid for a two bedroom 
property since 2015. I think the compensation of £30 it paid for the inconvenience caused 
here is reasonable and in line with our approach.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Saga Services Limited to pay Mr S a further £100 in addition to the £30 its already 
paid for the distress and inconvenience caused by its renewal correspondence.
Saga Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If Saga considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman