DRN-3421782
The complaint
Ms O has complained Lloyds Bank plc has been charging her and defaulting her on her 
credit card for years.
What happened
Ms O has held a credit card with Lloyds Bank for a long period of time. In 2020 she 
complained that shed been charged default interest as shown on her credit card statements. 
She didnt see how this could be the case as she always made regular payments towards 
her credit card.
Lloyds explained this was the term they used on her statements when they were providing 
information on the breakdown of charges. They grouped together all interest and fees as 
default charges for information purposes.
Ms O remained concerned and brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator didnt believe there was any evidence to show Ms O had been defaulted on 
her account.
Ms O remained concerned about what shed been charged over a number of years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly theres no doubt Ms O is correct. Her statement  on page 3  clearly groups together 
charges as default charges when explaining what interest is applied to these. Further up her 
statement when her monthly transactions are referred to, only interest is noted as having 
been charged.
However I believe  based on the evidence Ive seen  that the term default charges is just 
badly worded. At no stage can I see a default has been applied to Ms Os account nor are 
the charges applied anything other than monthly interest as she doesnt pay off in full.
What this shows is how Ms Os monthly new balance is made up  how much of this is 
purchases and how much is made up charges. Or as Lloyds has called these charges 
default charges.
Lloyds has confirmed they accept this term can be misleading but remains in use.
I can absolutely see why Ms O may be concerned. However, I can see nothing which shows 
shes been charged more she is liable to be charged under her terms and conditions when 
not paying off in full. I know Ms O is convinced shes right but I dont believe there is any 
evidence to show this is the case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Os complaint against 
Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman