DRN-4074196
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Vanquis Bank Limited hasnt refunded him for an oil radiator he 
bought from a third party, which he says is faulty.
What happened
Mr B bought an oil radiator, using his Vanquis credit card. He complained to Vanquis that its 
faulty, but it hasnt refunded him - by way of either chargeback or section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Unhappy with this, he brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She was satisfied that Mr B was out of time to raise a chargeback, and 
that the purchase didnt meet the criteria for a section 75 claim, so she didnt think Vanquis 
had acted unfairly.
Mr B disagreed, explaining that hed tried to contact the seller, but had no response. He also 
queried whether Vanquis had unfairly charged him interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing, but Ill explain 
why.
Mr B bought the radiator for £54.99 on 19 May 2022. He contacted Vanquis on 23 December 
2022, to say it was faulty and he wanted a refund. Vanquis did not raise a chargeback, as 
more than 120 days had passed. Under the VISA chargeback scheme rules, a chargeback 
would have needed to be raised within 120 calendar days of the transaction, or of Mr B 
receiving the goods. As it was not, Vanquis did not behave incorrectly by not processing it. 
This is the case regardless of Mr B explaining hed tried to contact the seller.
As regards a claim under section 75, the purchase does not meet the criteria. That is 
because the legislation requires the value of the goods to be priced at over £100. Here, the 
radiator cost less than this, so the legislation doesnt apply.
As regards interest, Ive seen  nothing to suggest that it wasnt charged fairly, in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman