DRN-3506902
The complaint
Mr M complains PayrNet Limited (trading as Pockit) wont refund a transaction he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The full details of this complaint as well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points:
Mr M noticed a payment on his Pockit account on 5 November 2021 for £24.88 which 
he says he did not authorise. Mr M reported this transaction to Pockit on the same 
day. 
Pockit reviewed the matter and in its response of 18 November 2021 it explained it 
would not be refunding the disputed amount. Instead, it provided Mr M with details of 
its chargeback process.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. He explained that he did not authorise the 
transaction and that he had informed Pockit about fraudulent transactions in the past, 
that were declined. He says Pockit shouldve done more to stop this transaction.
The investigator requested further information from Pockit, however no technical 
evidence has been provided.
The investigator found in Mr Ms favour explaining that there wasnt evidence to show 
Mr M had authorised the transaction. The disputed transaction was also completed 
by distance contract, so Mr M is not liable for it.
The investigator recommended Pockit refund the disputed transaction, plus 8% 
simple interest. Pockit also failed to provide a refund by the next working day so it 
should pay £75 for its poor handling of Mr Ms complaint. 
Pockit has not responded to the investigators findings. Mr M responded explaining he 
should be awarded a greater amount for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
The complaint has now been referred to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Ms complaint for the following reasons: 
In-line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr M isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise unless he failed with gross negligence, or intent, to 
comply with the terms of the account, or keep his personalised security details safe. 
Under sections 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, except where a payer has acted fraudulently, 
the payer isnt liable for any losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payment instrument has been used in connection with a 
distance contract. A distance contract means a contract concluded between a trader 
and a consumer under an organised distance sales or service-provision scheme 
without the simultaneous physical presence of the trader and the consumer subject 
to some exclusions (as per regulation 5 of the Consumer Contracts (Information, 
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. There isnt any provision 
within the PSRs which holds Mr M liable for the transaction if it was unauthorised, 
even if he acted with gross negligence or intent.
The disputed transaction was an on-line payment. As the payment instrument was 
used in connection with a distance contract, gross negligence (or a failure with intent) 
isnt a factor for my consideration. Under the PSRs, Pockit can only hold Mr M liable 
for it, if he either authorised the transaction or he acted fraudulently. There is no 
persuasive evidence, nor has Pockit sought to argue, that he acted fraudulently. 
Therefore, my key consideration is in relation to whether Mr M authorised the 
transaction.
The investigator requested technical evidence from Pockit, however it hasnt 
responded or provided any technical evidence to demonstrate Mr M authorised the 
payment. In the absence of any such evidence, Pockit cannot hold him liable for the 
transaction.
Under section 76(1) and (2) of the PSRs, a payment service provider must refund the 
amount of an unauthorised transaction and that should be done as soon as is 
practicable. Pockits account terms and conditions also state provided the account 
holder informs them within a reasonable timeframe of a disputed transaction, it will 
refund the disputed amount by the end of the next business day. Pockit didnt do this. 
I therefore uphold this complaint.
Mr M has been caused inconvenience by Pockit not refunding the transaction as 
soon as it ought to  despite Mr M notifying it as soon as he became aware of it. Mr 
M has therefore been without those funds for longer than he ought to have been. I 
can also see Mr M has sent numerous emails and chased Pockit for information in 
relation to the transaction and his new card. So, whilst I agree with the investigator 
that compensation is fair in Mr Ms case, I think £150 is a more accurate reflection of 
the impact the matter has had on Mr M. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require PayrNet 
Limited to:
Reimburse £24.98 to Mr Ms account; and 
Add 8% simple interest to the above sum, from the date Mr M initially disputed the 
transaction to the date of settlement: and 
Pay Mr M £150 compensation for the inconvenience this matter has caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require PayrNet Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set 
out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 Chandni Green
Ombudsman