DRN-3481617
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of Y and through representatives, says Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited (APS) acted unreasonably when it closed his account without giving a reason. 
What happened
Mr M opened a business bank account for Y in February 2021. APS served a closure notice 
to Mr M on 5 August 2021. This explained it would be closing Ys business account on 7 
October 2021.
Mr M says this has caused significant disturbance, loss and inconvenience. And if APS will 
not give a reason for the closure it should re-instate the account, or alternatively explain the 
reason so the business can avoid being in the same situation in the future. 
Our investigator did not uphold the compliant. He said APS was within its rights to close the 
account and was not obliged to provide a reason for doing so.
Mr Ms representatives disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. They said the 
investigators assessment places significant weight on APSs terms of business, and much 
less on the prejudice and discrimination Mr M has suffered. The reason for the closure does 
not appear to have been investigated thoroughly, or assessed. It is also unfair that APS will 
not disclose the reason. This puts Mr M in the position that he may face a similar decision in 
the future without having had the opportunity to ensure its based on correct information. At 
the very least the source of the information should be disclosed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M was inconvenienced when the bank closed the account, and that he 
remains frustrated that it has not provided a reason. That being said, in order to uphold this 
complaint, Id need to be persuaded that APS made a mistake or did something it wasnt 
entitled to do. And, having reviewed all of the information provided, I dont think that was the 
case. Ill explain why. 
There is no dispute about that APS served notice as required prior to the closure, but Mr M 
says it is unfair he has not been given a reason. APS has explained that it was acting in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account and, having reviewed them, Im 
satisfied that it was.
Mr M wants to know why APS closed his account but APS isnt obliged to disclose the 
reason so I cant say it did anything wrong by not giving Mr M an explanation. Nor can I force 
it to disclose the source of the information behind its decision. APS has told this service why 
it closed Mr Ms account and, while I cant share these reasons with Mr M, I am satisfied 
from its submission that it was entitled to reach this decision, based on its risk policy.
Mr Ms representative questioned if the prejudice and discrimination Mr M has experienced 
has been properly considered.  In terms of discrimination, it is for the Courts to determine if a 
business has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider various 
factors including relevant law and what we see as good industry practice from the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not APS has breached the Equality Act
2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. Mr Ms representatives did not submit any specific 
evidence for me to consider in support of their claim. For the reason Ive set out above, from 
what I have seen Im satisfied that APSs actions were driven by its internal policy.
I know this isnt the answer Mr M was hoping for, and I appreciate the information Ive
given wont answer the questions he has. But I hope he can take some comfort from what 
Ive said and the knowledge that an independent third-party has reviewed APSs actions and 
found no failings.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
Y, to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman