DRN-3989521
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
he made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
The following is intended to be a brief summary of events that led to this complaint.
Mr R has a home insurance policy which also provides legal expenses cover.
Mr R had building work completed at his property. He became aware that the work 
completed was of poor quality and had caused damage to the party wall. He was notified 
that his neighbours potentially could make a claim against him.
Mr R approached LV to notify them of this fact. He wanted to know if he had cover to pursue 
a claim against the builder and if hed be able to defend any potential claim by his 
neighbours.
LV instructed panel solicitors to review the claim and see if it is one the policy would respond 
to. The panel solicitors confirmed that it wouldnt be proportionate to pursue a claim against 
the builder as it would be unlikely that any funds could be successfully recovered. On this 
basis, as proportionality is a requirement of the policy, LV declined the claim. The policy at 
the time, didnt provide defence cover, so it wouldnt respond to any future claim Mr Rs 
neighbours might make.
Mr R complained that overall, he is unhappy LV hasnt supported him and didnt make him 
aware there was a time limit of six years in which his neighbours could register a claim. As 
LV were the insurers for both the building and legal expenses policy, it responded to his 
complaint confirming its position and that it had not done anything wrong.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 10 February 2023. I said I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
I understand Mr R has strong views about what has happened, and I appreciate the impact 
the whole matter has had on him. I want to assure him Ive read and considered carefully 
everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every 
question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr R, and by LV, to reach 
what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint for the following reasons.
It is normal for legal expenses policies to contain a term which restricts cover where it would 
not be proportional to pursue the third party. We wouldnt say this is unreasonable, as we 
wouldnt expect a privately paying individual to pursue such a legal claim in the same 
circumstances.
In this case, having assessed the third partys insurance coverage and their financial 
position, the panel solicitors concluded it would be unlikely Mr R would be able to recover 
any money from them. As such, the policy wouldnt provide cover for the legal action Mr R 
wanted to take.
LV is entitled to rely on the advice of its legal experts, and having read the information it was 
provided with, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to do so in this instance. I think LV 
declined this aspect of the claim correctly.
Under the property section of the policy, it didnt provide cover for defence of a claim. So 
again, I think this aspect of Mr Rs claim was dealt with correctly. As there was no cover, I 
wouldnt have expected the panel solicitors to provide Mr R with advice relating to limitation 
periods and how long the neighbours may have to file a claim against him.
Im aware the investigator made a compensation award of £150 as LV did not provide 
information to this service in a timely manner. However, I dont think that was the right thing 
to do here. This service is not set up to fine or punish businesses.
There was already information on file provided by LV under the separate buildings complaint 
this service investigated. So LV had already provided some information which would have 
allowed an investigation to start. So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr R, I wont be awarding the same compensation in this decision.
Responses to my provisional findings
LV did not provide any further comment.
Mr R responded reiterating how worried he was about the underlying legal matter. He also 
questioned whether the panel solicitors assessment, that it was unlikely hed recover money 
from the builder, was correct initially. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate the underlying legal matter would have been very worrying for Mr R. Not 
knowing whether or not legal action would be taken against him. But as mentioned in my 
provisional decision, the policy didnt provide defence cover therefore I wouldnt have 
expected LV to offer any further support here.
Ive looked at the panel solicitors assessment and I can see they set out their reasons, 
explaining why it would be unlikely any money would be recovered from the builder. LV are 
entitled to rely on the advice it receives from solicitors unless it can identify it was obviously 
wrong. I cant see that was the case here. 
Having reviewed everything again, Im not persuaded to alter the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
So, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Rs 
complaint against LV. I think it acted reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy when it declined Mr Rs claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint against Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman