DRN-3794134
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr K holds with Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS). Hes 
unhappy about a series of litigation fees that BOS debited to his mortgage between 2011 
and 2013. The fees were in connection with possession proceedings that Mr K says were 
unnecessary and excessive.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 31 October 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr K and BOS. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with Mr K and BOS, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr K being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of 
the complaint. 
When Mr K took the mortgage out, the property taken as security for it was a freehold 
building. In 2007, with BOS knowledge and consent, Mr K created a separate title for 
a self-contained leasehold flat within the building, and sold it to a third party. Mr K 
continued to occupy the remainder of the freehold building, and the remaining part of 
the original title continued as security for the mortgage.
Mr Ks mortgage was in arrears during 2011, and BOS began possession 
proceedings; the legal action reached court, where Mr K contested the scope of BOS 
action. He said it was attempting to take possession not just of his home, but also the 
flat which had been previously been sold as a separate title. The proceedings 
continued into 2012, during which time, BOS debited the litigations costs to Mr Ks 
mortgage in a series of transactions between April 2011 and October 2013. 
The court proceedings didnt result in Mr K losing his home, but he has continued to 
struggle with his mortgage payments in the intervening years. Sometime later, in a 
court case brought against BOS on behalf of other borrowers, it was held that BOS 
had wrongly calculated the contractual monthly payment of borrowers in arrears, and 
in doing so, had potentially over-stated the severity of the arrears. 
In 2018, the regulator of mortgage lenders, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
ordered BOS to carry out a remediation exercise on the accounts of all affected 
borrowers and Mr K was one of those. He brought a complaint to us about how BOS 
had implemented his remediation, and we dealt with that. 
The current complaint, however, is that Mr K believes that if his account hadnt been 
calculated wrongly in the first place, he wouldnt have been so seriously in arrears 
that the possession action would have taken place. That, Mr K argues, means the 
litigation fees were unfairly charged and should be removed. Separately, Mr K also 
argues that because of the amount of time BOS solicitors spent trying to repossess 
the flat that had been sold, the fees were higher than they needed to have been. 
BOS says that the results of the remediation exercise didnt reveal any need to 
refund the litigation fess. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr K asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. In an earlier decision, I confirmed that that this 
complaint is not time-barred and our power to consider it is not dependent on BOS 
giving us consent to do so.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the 
following conclusions.
The fees in question were incurred by a firm of solicitors, which was acting for BOS. 
The firm invoiced BOS, BOS paid the firms invoices and debited the cost to Mr Ks 
mortgage account. This means Mr Ks dispute is with BOS, not with the firm of 
solicitors, which was BOS agent.
My starting point here is that the mortgage contract permits BOS to debit litigation 
and other related fees and charges to the mortgage account, on the general proviso 
that the fees must be reasonable in quantum and fairly charged in the circumstances. 
Mr K makes the point that the court made no order for costs, and Ill come back to the 
significance of that in due course. 
As I said, the starting point is that a lender can debit such costs to the mortgage. If 
the court thinks that shouldnt happen, it will make an order that costs should be 
apportioned elsewhere (i.e. born by the lender) in full or in part. But if theres no order 
for costs, that means the default position applies: i.e. that the costs can be added to 
the mortgage account, provided theyre fair and reasonable. So, I go there next, and 
the first step to ask is should the possession action have been brought at all?
BOS position is that Mr K was over forty thousand pounds in arrears so yes the 
action was justified. Mr Ks position is, once you overlay the effects of the 
remediation exercise that was carried out circa 2018 (and then corrected because it 
had been wrongly executed - and which we dealt with a complaint about) on the 
mortgage history, there wouldnt have been any (or enough) arrears to warrant the 
possession action taking place. 
BOS has provided us with a revised rendering of the mortgage history, reflecting how 
it would have looked if the miscalculations that led to the remediation hadnt happened. I know this will disappoint Mr K, but this confirms that even after the 
retrospective effects of the remediation exercise have been factored in, his arrears in 
2011 would still have justified the possession action being taken. This does not come 
as a surprise to me; I say that because the procedural accounting error that led to the 
court case  and then to the 2018 remediation exercise ordered by the FCA - 
occurred in March 2013, so would have had no bearing on what happened in 2011 
and 2012. 
So, on the first argument of Mr Ks complaint, I cant fairly conclude that the litigation 
charges were fundamentally unnecessary. So I next considered his argument that 
they were excessive.
The issue here is that because BOS spent much of the proceedings in 2011 and 
2012 trying to repossess a flat that was no longer part of the security, Mr K thinks the 
litigation fees are higher than they might have been. I can understand his argument, 
as there is plenty of evidence on file that he, BOS and the court were all aware that 
what had originally been a part of the freehold taken as security when the mortgage 
first started had been removed from the title, set up as a separate leasehold title in its 
own right, and sold off. This was in 2007 and evidently happened with BOS 
knowledge and consent at the time. 
But this is where it starts to get difficult for Mr K. In the preceding paragraph, I 
emphasised that the court too was aware of the dispute over whether the flat should 
be included in the possession proceedings. The relevance of that goes back to what I 
said earlier about the absence of a cost order from the court. 
To the extent that the court was aware of the dispute over the flat, but didnt make 
any order as to costs, I have to infer that the court had the opportunity to make an 
order that limited BOS right to debit the account to reflect the additional costs 
incurred due to the mix-up over the flat. Insofar as it had that opportunity, and didnt 
take it, I have no remit to second-guess the judgement of the court. 
In essence, even though he might not see it that way, this element of Mr Ks 
complaint becomes the court should have made a cost order limiting how much BOS 
could debit to my mortgage account. I cant answer that; only the court can do so. 
Effectively, Mr K would need to go back to the court and ask it to revisit the 
proceedings from 2011 and 2012 and ask that it make a costs award in his favour.
I gave the parties two weeks two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both have done 
so already, so I have proceeded with my further review rather than leave the matter hanging 
unnecessarily.
What Ive decided  and why
Before I deal with the merits of the case, I need to clarify a couple of points from my 
provisional decision, to which Mr K has objected. Hes said I was wrong to say hed 
continued to struggle with the payments in the years after the possession proceedings; in 
reality, hed since made all his payments on time. I owe Mr K an apology; what I should have 
said was that the account remained in arrears after the possession proceedings. Mr K has 
also pointed out that his property is leasehold, not freehold, as I described. Its not central to 
the outcome of the complaint, but it was an error nonetheless, and shouldnt have happened.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. Ill explain why.
The main thrust of Mr Ks response to the provisional decision is about what the court did or 
didnt say about legal costs in the possession proceedings. Hes revisited the court 
transcripts, and told us the order was silent on the matter of costs. Mr K then says that this 
means neither party can recover its costs, and therefore BOS must remove the costs from 
his account.
I dont agree with Mr Ks interpretation of what silent as to costs means. This is something 
I covered in the provisional decision. If there is no direction from the court on costs, then the 
default position is the contract, and here the contract says costs can be added to the 
mortgage account, provided theyre fair and reasonable. But the point here is moot, at least 
as far as my decision is concerned. 
What Mr K has done in his response to the provisional decision is throw into relief that his 
dispute with BOS is over how a court order should be interpreted. All I can add to that is to 
emphasise that I cant decide how a court order should be interpreted, or whether and to 
what extent a financial business has complied with that order. Only the court can do that. I 
understand that is a daunting prospect for Mr K and Im not unsympathetic towards how he 
feels about returning to the court to revisit proceedings from ten years ago. But the simple 
reality is that its not open to me to second guess a court.
Mr K is concerned that accepting my final decision will have severe consequences if he then 
has to go to court. I cant advise Mr K on what he should or shouldnt do. But if it helps him to 
make up his mind, I can say that he doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he 
doesnt, then neither he nor BOS will be bound by it. Subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Mr Ks right to take legal action against BOS over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman