DRN-4170350
The complaint
Mrs O, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Mitsubishi 
HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi) rejected her claims under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 
1974 in respect of a holiday product. I gather the product was purchased by Mrs O and her 
husband or partner, but the loan is in her name and so she is the eligible complainant. In this 
decision for simplicity I will refer to Mrs O as the sole purchaser.
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs O purchased a holiday product from a company I will call C at a cost of 
£12,968 which was funded by a loan from Mitsubishi. She made use of this taking several 
holidays.
In August 2022 PR submitted letter of claim to Mitsubishi. In summary it said:
The product had been misrepresented.
There had been an unfair relationship.
Undue pressure was applied.
Insufficient information was provided.
Mitsubishi rejected the claim and set out in detail why it did so. PR submitted a complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She said that there was insufficient evidence to support the claim of 
misrepresentation under s.75 CCA. Nor did she identify evidence which would support a 
claim under s.140A CCA. Finally she said that the issue of the lending decision had not been 
raised with Mitsubishi so she did not consider it appropriate to address this matter.
PR did not agree, but submitted no further evidence or argument as it thought it was unable 
to respond to what it called a copy and paste decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I will explain why. 
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mrs O) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (Mitsubishi) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that, as Mitsubishi was the lender rather than the supplier, under the 
Act a claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
Misrepresentation
On Mrs Os behalf PR alleges that the holiday product was misrepresented to her, in 
particular that:
She was advised that holidays were available at any time;
She could get discounted RCI holidays at any time; and,
She could sell the timeshare for a profit later as it was an investment.
Not having been present at the sale its not possible for me to say exactly what was said, 
and in what circumstances. But the terms of the contract set out fairly clearly what was being 
purchased. C has said that Mrs O has access to 150 resorts worldwide and availability is 
offered on a first come first served basis. It explained that it was unaware Mrs O had 
membership with RCI.  Finally it said that the product wasnt sold as an investment and this 
was made clear in the documentation.
I have not had any testimony from Mrs O as to what was said and other than the claim made 
by PR I have seen no supporting evidence to back up the claims.
As our investigator has said the sales representatives would have put the best gloss on the 
product and emphasised the benefits membership would offer, but that does not mean that 
this amounted to misrepresentation. I also note that Mrs O had 14 days to withdraw from the 
agreement which she could have used had she believed she had been unduly pressurised.
Overall it is difficult for me to conclude that any misrepresentations were made.
S.140A CCA
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mrs O and 
Mitsubishi were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under s.140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of 
any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mrs O could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against Mitsubishi anyway.
Mrs Os alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to her personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Mitsubishi assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
PR seems to suggest that Mitsubishi owed Mrs O a duty of care to ensure that C complied 
with the 2010 Regulations. And P says that Mitsubishi breached that duty by failing to carry 
out  before granting Mrs O credit and paying C  the due diligence necessary to ensure that 
the product purchased by Mrs O wasnt sold by C in breach of the 2010 Regulations. 
I have seen no evidence that undue pressure was applied and C denies this. I dont consider 
I can uphold this complaint on the basis of simple assertion by PR. Nor can I see what 
information  C failed to provide. PR has made a generalised claim, but not identified what 
information was withheld from Mrs O which put her at a disadvantage. For example the 
agreement identifies that there will be annual management charges and this is reiterated in 
the Members Declaration which sets out the current annual service charge.
I have no power to make an order under section 140B, and it is not for me to say whether a 
court would make an order if invited to do so. In the circumstances, however, it is reasonable 
to think that a court would not do so.
Affordability
This was not raised with Mitsubishi and I dont believe it would be right for me to consider 
this part of the complaint without the business having had the opportunity of addressing it. 
Nor do I consider it necessary to submit the list of questions to Mitsubishi as PR has 
suggested.
Conclusion
I appreciate Mrs O is dissatisfied with her purchase and she has my sympathies for this, but, 
in summary I cannot see why any of her claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I 
think that Mitsubishi acted reasonably in declining the claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman