DRN-3861876
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled his buildings 
insurance claim after thered been an escape of water. 
What happened
In March 2020, there was a leak from a pipe in Mr Hs bathroom. The escape of water went 
unnoticed as the cistern was housed in a vanity unit and only came to light when Mr H 
noticed an issue with the bathroom tiles. He made a claim to Admiral against his buildings 
insurance policy. Admiral sent an assessor to visit the property. And it was accepted that   
Mr H had an insured event.
Mr H said there were issues throughout the repair, poor workmanship, incorrect orders, 
unnecessary delay, poor communication and lack of adherence to his concerns during the 
pandemic. He complained to Admiral detailing 28 complaint points.
Admiral said that there had been several calls about a vanity unit and offered Mr H £50 for 
the trouble and upset this had caused, and reimbursement of £30 for his telephone calls. 
They didnt accept the other 27 points Mr H complained about.
Mr H wasnt happy with Admirals response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said some of the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr H could 
have been avoided. He said that Admiral should pay Mr H £250 to compensate him for this.
Mr H didnt agree he said £250 was insufficient to compensate him for the distress caused 
by lack of running water, poor communications and the breakdown in the relationship with 
the contractors. He said there were still outstanding issues with the repairs but he no longer 
wanted the contractors on his property. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im partially upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand the stress Mr Hs been under. Theres inevitably some stress involved in every
claim - because somethings happened to make that claim necessary. I cant say Admiral 
should compensate Mr H for that  or for anything that wasnt their fault. And I have to
decide whether what Admiral has done to put matters right is enough.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mr H has gone to some
trouble to detail all the concerns he has about how his claim and repairs was handled. Im 
not going to repeat each one as these have been covered in Admirals response and our 
investigators outcome. I want to assure Mr H Ive read everything hes sent us. I hope hell 
understand if I dont address every comment hes made in this decision, Ive considered 
each point in reaching my decision but have concentrated on what I consider is key to the 
complaint.
The escape of water was first noticed when the toilet wouldnt flush and a plumber was 
called in to investigate. Mr H made a claim against his buildings insurance policy with 
Admiral and the damage was assessed in March 2020, the claim validation report found 
there were cracked bathroom floor tiles and a swollen vanity unity. On further inspection the 
floor joists and tongue and groove boards had been affected by the escape of water. And the 
escape of water had also affected some adjoining rooms, a ground floor bedroom, office and 
the hallway. It was agreed the peril was an insurable event and the scope of work that was  
needed to repair the damage.
Unfortunately, Mr Hs escape of water happened at the time of a pandemic. And I can see it 
was agreed between all parties for the repairs to be put on hold until the government 
restrictions were lifted. And I can see Mr H asked for a further hold later in the year as he still 
had concerns about the pandemic. So, the work didnt start until July 2021.
Communications and delay
Escape of water claims can be some of the most stressful and protracted types of home 
insurance claims. From the evidence Ive seen though, the damage caused by the escape of 
water to Mr Hs home was at the lesser end of the severity spectrum. I can see Admiral 
agreed that when its contractors carried out the repairs, theyd move the family into 
alternative accommodation as the bathroom, an essential utility, wouldnt be usable.  The 
initial timeframe given was two weeks. But as in any claim this would be an initial estimation 
and not a guarantee that the work would be completed in this timeframe. 
Mr H said the alternative accommodation kept being extended after the initial two weeks. 
And he didnt return to his home until 17 September 2021. But considering the scope of work 
needed I dont think the time taken was unnecessarily long  as Mr Hs property had to be 
dried out, floorboards, joists and units replaced. I can see an additional day was added as 
the supply of tiles was delayed. Mr H had also expressed concerns about risk to his father 
during the pandemic  being in the vicinity of several contractors. So, I think Admiral were 
clear that the alternative accommodation would be put in place until Mr Hs home was 
habitable. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr H on return to his home found the wrong vanity unit had been supplied. I can see 
contractors visited the property about this, but I cant see that Mr H was  told a precise day 
or time, so that he could make arrangements for his father given his expressed concerns 
about the pandemic and the risk to him.  And the incorrect vanity unit did delay Mr Hs claim 
being put right. But I can also see that the vanity unit chosen by Mr H exceeded the 
expected cost by £49.95 which Admiral agreed to cover.
Damage to property
Mr H said a single bed was damaged because the contractors had put items on top of it. Ive 
seen the picture provided by Mr H and the evidence of the contractors, there is a different 
version of events. Mr H has since disposed of the damaged slats, so I havent seen evidence 
of the damage and it cant be seen in the photograph Mr H provided. Also as explained by our investigator this damage wasnt because of the escape of water claim. So, I wont ask 
Admiral to do anything further.
Mr H says a mirror that was in the  property before the escape of water hasnt been put back 
and is now missing. I havent seen any evidence of the mirror prior to the claim but the 
photograph sent by Mr H of the completed bathroom does show a mirror in place. So, I wont 
comment further on this as the mirror wasnt within the scope for the escape of water claim. 
Water supply
Mr H said when he returned to his property the water supply was insufficient for the 
household. He said after flushing the toilet there wasnt any running water available for the 
taps. He said he called the contractors several times about this, but they didnt respond. The 
water pressure was increased a few days later. I can see the contractors had concerns that 
the full pressure would cause a leak as there was a repair needed, so theyd lowered the 
water pressure. I think theyd acted to prevent further leaks and damage, but I cant see that 
Mr H was told about this, and it must have been distressing for the couple of days the 
pressure was too low for adequate use.
Snagging issues
Snagging issues arent unusual following repairs and its expected and reasonable for these 
to be considered and where appropriate put right. I can see Admiral looked to get these 
assessed but Mr H has denied access to his property. So as Admiral cant consider the 
issues to see if they need to be corrected, I cant say theyve acted unreasonably, as theyve 
been prevented from acting on these.
Putting things right
I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and its clear he has experienced distress 
and inconvenience, when he returned to his home, with concerns about his father and the 
low water pressure. There was also the disappointment of the wrong vanity unit being 
supplied. So, I agree that Mr H should be compensated for this. I think £250 is a fair and 
reasonable amount to compensate Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused.My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr H 
£250 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman