DRN-3610061
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, who Ill refer to as Mr and Mrs B, complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc
initially set up the trust bank account incorrectly, which has caused them inconvenience.
What happened
In the 1980s, Mrs Bs parents  Mr D and Mrs B - set up two trusts with HSBC, which Ill call
D&B and B. When the two trusts were set up, one bank account was opened in the name
of B and another bank account was opened in the name of D&B.
Each trust was invested in a bond held by a third-party and both trusts made a monthly
payment  one into the B account and the other into the D&B bank account - which Mrs B
then distributed to the beneficiaries. On a yearly basis, HSBC has contacted Mrs B about the
trust as part of its safeguarding review  which Mrs B says has caused inconvenience due to
the way the D&B account was set up.
In September 2019, the bank identified a wider issue with the way the D&B account was set
up and undertook a wider safeguarding review. Between September and November, the
bank told Mrs B that without all the information needed to complete the review the D&B
account would be closed in December.
Discussions between Mrs B and HSBC continued throughout the three-month period about
whether the account could remain as it was, and there was confusion from the bank about
which names the account could be in. In November the bank said that the monies from the
two different trusts needed to go into an account in the name of that trust. Mrs B was
confused by this as she thought the trusts already had separate accounts, so she was
unsure what action she needed to take and questioned how the accounts were originally set
up.
After reviewing the account again, HSBC then told Mrs B that the D&B account couldnt
remain as it was, and she would need a separate trust account for Mr D and Mrs B as the 
account couldnt be in joint names. The bank said she could change the D&B account into
Mr Ds sole account  as Mrs B already had a trust account - or open a new account for both
trusts. HSBC then suggested Mrs B close the D&B account, which she did. 
However, after taking this action, the investment company which held the trust bond advised 
it couldnt pay the monthly income into an account solely as D as the trust was in the name 
of D&B not Mr D and Mrs B as the bank had suggested. As an interim measure it agreed to 
pay the D&B trust monies into the B trust account as this was still active.
HSBC agreed to extend the account closure date and from December 2019 to February
2020, the bank wrote to Mrs B to explain it needed further information about the account as it
wasnt clear which option she wanted to go ahead with. HSBC reminded Mrs B that it
couldnt continue to have the monthly income from both trust bonds paid into the B trust
account - and gave notice that the account would be closed in March 2020.
In error, HSBC told Mrs B that the D&B account needed to be closed  which she did. But
when Mrs B tried to open a new account, she was unable to do so and made a complaint.
This has also meant that both trust payments are now made into Bs account as it is the only
account open  causing further issues. When she didnt receive a satisfactory response from
the bank, Mrs B asked this service to look into the complaint.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said it had told Mrs B since 2019 that each trust
needed a separate account, so the D&B account had been closed correctly. HSBC also said
that as Mrs B hadnt opened the new account at the time it suggested, as it was no longer
offering trust accounts, shed need to open an account elsewhere. The bank said that its
safeguarding reviews were part of its regulatory requirements, and Mrs B had already
received a significant amount of compensation for previous inconvenience caused by this.
And on this occasion, there hadnt been a bank error so it wouldnt be taking further action.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She agreed that HSBC could
have communicated better, had given Mrs B incorrect information at times, and caused
Mrs B inconvenience  but she said the bank had paid £1,800 compensation for these errors
which was enough to put things right. She also said it was reasonable for HSBC to carry out
its safeguarding review and no longer offer the trust account as this was a commercial
decision for the bank to make.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said the compensation had been paid in 2017 for previous related
issues, but the bank had continued to cause issues with the trust account. So she asked for
an ombudsman to review the complaint and the case has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 July 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed by either party that HSBC made a mistake when it set up the trust 
accounts. The bank says its apologised to Mrs B and paid her £1,800 for the 
inconvenience related to this, and although this payment was made in 2017, the 
additional points Mrs B has raised since then, stem from this. But I dont agree, Ill 
explain why.
HSBC has explained that it needed to undertake a safeguarding review of the 
accounts to ensure it was complying with its regulatory obligations, and I think it was 
reasonable for the bank to do so. However, the issue with the account was raised in 
2019 so I think its reasonable to think that the bank could have made a record on the 
trust account of what had happened in November 2019, so Mrs B didnt have 
ongoing issues with the bank whilst this was under review.
Ive seen that in September 2019, HSBC contacted Mrs B about the trust accounts 
as part of its safe-guarding review. Mrs B says that she was told that one of the trust 
accounts had been set up incorrectly by HSBC as it was in joint names  and could 
only be a sole name. The bank said it had referred the account for a legal review to 
see if it could make an exception under the circumstances, but due to the nature of 
the trust, this wasnt possible. But Ive looked at the trust account information 
provided by both parties, and it appears the account was set up in the name of the 
D&B discretionary trust  not in the joint names of the individuals who had set up the 
trust, as HSBC had said.
From September until the end of November Mrs B received numerous letters asking 
her for information about both trusts  but Mrs B didnt understand what was being 
requested as she believed the two trust accounts had each been set up in the name 
of the trusts. Mrs B says she repeatedly asked HSBC what needed to happen, but she didnt get a satisfactory response. Ive seen that Mrs B had to make numerous 
calls and send emails to try and resolve the issue  including repeatedly visiting the 
local branch for assistance.
In January 2020, it appears that HSBC incorrectly advised Mrs B that she should 
close the D&B account in joint names and pay the monthly income from both the trust 
bonds into the other account in B sole name. Mrs B duly did this in February 2020. 
Ive asked the bank why Mrs B was told the account was in joint names, and, if it 
needed to be in a sole name as the bank had said, why she wasnt simply told to 
change the existing account. But the bank hasnt been able to explain this and has 
simply said the account name needed to match the name of the trust.
Once Mrs B passed on the new account details in Bs sole name to the investment 
company overseeing both the trust bonds, it said wasnt able to credit an account 
which didnt match the name of the trust - which validated Mrs Bs belief that the 
account was in the name of the trust initially. However, when Mrs B passed this 
information on to HSBC, the bank said it was no longer offering trust accounts and 
couldnt reopen the original account. HSBC said Mrs B would need to look elsewhere 
for an account. I understand this caused Mrs B further distress and inconvenience as 
she needed to be able to pass the trust monies on to the beneficiaries and was 
worried about how she would do this.
When closing an account, the banks terms and conditions say that it can do so by 
giving two-months notice. In this case, it wrote to Mrs B in November and December 
2019 for further information and explained the account would be closed if she didnt 
provide the requested information. It then wrote to her again in January and February 
2020, saying the account would be closed on 20 March 2020. So the bank did give 
the notice it required, but I dont think it treated Mrs B fairly as it repeatedly 
threatened to close the remaining trust account  despite acknowledging the account 
was operating incorrectly due to its error.
I understand HSBC has told Mrs B it no longer offers trust accounts and that shell 
need to open a new trust account for D&B elsewhere. I recognise this is frustrating 
for Mrs B, but this is a commercial decision the bank is entitled to make. And Ive not 
seen anything that leads me to think that HSBCs decision to do so was unfair or 
unreasonable. However, I think the bank needs to do more in this case to put things 
right.
Due to the banks actions to this point, Mrs B has now been left in the position where 
both trusts monthly incomes are being paid into the B trust account. However, this is 
an issue for HSBC as the bank says this doesnt meet its procedures which only 
allow money to be paid into a trust account if the proceeds are coming from a trust of 
the same name. So I think its reasonable that the bank wants to resolve this as 
quickly as possible.
Looking at the existing B account held with HSBC, it appears this is currently set up 
as a business current account. Although I acknowledge HSBC is no longer able to 
offer trust accounts  or accounts on the same basis - I think it would be reasonable 
for the bank to open a new business current account for the D&B trust so that each 
trust has its income paid into its own account. In the short term, this should prevent 
any further safeguarding review requirements for HSBC or Mrs B. I understand there 
is a monthly charge for this account, so I think it would be reasonable for the bank to 
provide Mrs B with six-months free banking to allow her to decide if she wishes to 
remain with HSBC or look elsewhere for a trust account as the bank has suggested.I think its clear that Mrs B has been caused distress and inconvenience by HSBC 
since these concerns were raised in September 2019. Mrs B has spent several years 
being chased for account information shed already provided about the names on the 
trust, been given incorrect information, repeatedly contacting the bank in response to 
their letters about account closures and been left in a position where she now has to 
look elsewhere for a trust account as HSBC dont offer these accounts. So for the 
reasons Ive outlined, I think HSBC should pay Mrs B a further £750 compensation.
I invited Mr and Mrs B and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. Mr and Mrs B accepted the decision. 
However they told us that when HSBC had changed the trust account to a business account, 
the bank began charging them a fee, and because of this theyd moved the trust accounts 
elsewhere. So they asked if they could have a refund of six months fees that theyd already 
paid on the account, rather than to look for a new account elsewhere as theyd already done 
this.
 
HSBC accepted the provisional decision. I then provided the bank with Mr and Mrs Bs 
response to my provisional decision. I asked HSBC if it would be prepared to refund six 
months of previous account fees, rather than future account fees, as Mr and Mrs B had 
already found a trust account elsewhere and moved their account as suggested by the bank. 
HSBC confirmed it would accept this to settle the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both Mr and Mrs B and HSBC have responded to say they accept my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion other than the date the 
refund of fees is applicable to. 
So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision with the minor 
change accepted by both parties that the refund of fees will be the previous six months of 
HSBC account fees - rather than future fees - as Mr and Mrs B have already moved their 
trust accounts whilst the complaint has been with this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
pay Mr and Mrs B £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
and
refund six-months of account fees charged on the B trust business account.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman