DRN-2311876
The complaint
Miss W complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity) failed 
to apply her pension contribution to her account in a timely manner.
What happened
Miss W opened a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Fidelity in December 2018. 
She provided Fidelity with some information to allow the SIPP to be opened using its internet 
based application system. So Miss W says she was a little restricted in the information she 
was able to provide as part of the opening process.
Miss W was the sole director of a limited company. At the same time as the SIPP was 
opened Miss Ws company sent a pension contribution of £10,000 to Fidelity to be added to 
Miss Ws SIPP. But Fidelity says the application Miss W completed suggested she would be 
making personal contributions, so when it received funds from Miss Ws company it needed 
to clarify the correct origin of the contribution before it could be applied.
Fidelity says that it tried, and failed, to contact Miss W by telephone on two separate 
occasions in the weeks following the payment of the contribution. So it then wrote to Miss W 
to seek further information. But that letter suggested that the contribution would be returned 
to Miss Ws company while the matter was being clarified. The letter was sent on 
24 December, so with the intervening Christmas period, Miss W says it wasnt received until 
31 December. That was the end of her companys accounting period, so needing to make 
the payment at a later date would have significant corporation tax implications for the 
company.
Miss W contacted Fidelity by telephone on 31 December. Her understanding after that call 
was that her concerns had been logged, rather than actioned. So she made a complaint to 
Fidelity around a week later.
Miss W had clarified that the contribution should be treated as an employer contribution so 
Fidelity applied it to Miss Ws SIPP. And around a week later it calculated that the 
contribution would have provided additional units to Miss Ws SIPP had it been applied when 
the contribution was originally made on 10 December. So it corrected the value date of the 
contribution backdating it to 10 December and adding the additional units to Miss Ws SIPP.
Miss W brought her complaint to this Service. At that time Fidelity reviewed its 
communication with Miss W and decided that it should have provided more assistance to 
her. So it offered to pay her £250 for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
Miss Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that much of 
what Fidelity had done had been reasonable. But he agreed with Fidelity that its 
communications could have been better. So he thought that the £250 Fidelity had offered to 
Miss W was reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
Miss W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss W and by Fidelity. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ive looked carefully at the information Miss W sent to Fidelity when she opened the SIPP. 
I entirely accept what she says about her ability to enter free text being limited. I dont think 
that is unreasonable  by restricting the free text Fidelity reduces the chances of it missing 
some important information that might have been provided. And I agree with Fidelity that it 
needed to clarify the source of the contribution. A personal contribution attracts tax relief, 
whereas a company contribution doesnt. Fidelity needed to account properly for any monies 
that it was adding to the SIPP.
I think the attempts Fidelity made to contact Miss W, to clarify her contribution type, were 
reasonable. Miss W has confirmed that she was out of the country, and so unable to 
respond to the two phone calls that Fidelity made. Fidelity has told us that it doesnt consider 
email to be a secure method of communication, and by that time Miss W hadnt registered 
for the online service that would allow Fidelity to send her a secure message. So Fidelity 
was left with little option but to write to Miss W.
The letter that Fidelity sent to Miss W told her that the contribution payment was being 
returned. Fidelity has since clarified that letter should instead have said that the contribution 
might be returned at some stage in the future. I think that is an important difference, and 
much of the worry that Miss W has told us about  in terms of the corporation tax 
implications if the contribution needed to be made by her company in the following 
accounting year  would have been allayed by better wording. So I do think that error is 
worthy of some compensation.
Fidelity didnt apply the contribution to Miss Ws SIPP until 10 January 2019. So Miss W has 
questioned what happened to the funds in the intervening month. Firms such as Fidelity are 
required by the regulator, the FCA, to ensure that client monies, such as the contribution to 
Miss Ws SIPP, are held separate from its own funds. So that is what Id expect Fidelity to 
have done here  I think it most likely that Miss Ws funds were held in a client suspense 
account awaiting further clarification of the source of the contribution, or their return being 
authorised. When Miss W set up her SIPP she instructed Fidelity to use any contributions to purchase 
units in five different funds. Fidelity used those instruction to apply Miss Ws contribution on 
10 January 2019. But Fidelity offered to backdate that contribution to when it originally 
received the funds on 10 December 2018. So it recalculated the number of units that 
Miss Ws contribution would have bought at that date. The price of four of the funds had 
risen over the month so Fidelity added the additional units to Miss Ws SIPP. And although 
the price of one of the funds had fallen Fidelity didnt ask Miss W to return the additional 
units she held in that fund. So I think Fidelity has treated Miss W fairly in the way it ultimately 
applied the contribution to her SIPP.
I appreciate how upsetting this matter might have been for Miss W. I think that the time of 
the year  and so the reduced working days and numbers of staff that might have been 
available  might have made things worse. But I dont think Fidelity acted unreasonable 
either in seeking to clarify the correct source of Miss Ws contribution, or in the methods it 
used to try to get in touch with her. And I think it has been entirely fair in the method it has 
chosen to ensure that Miss W wasnt disadvantaged by the delay in her contribution being 
applied. I agree with Fidelity that it might have been clearer in the letter it sent to Miss W on 
24 December about what would happen to her contribution. I think the offer that Fidelity has 
made of £250 in compensation for the trouble and upset that has caused to Miss W is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold a part of Miss Ws complaint. If it hasnt already done so, 
I direct Financial Administration Services Limited to put things right by paying Miss W the 
sum of £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset she has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman