DRN-3553389
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (BPF) rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in 
respect of a timeshare purchase. The purchase was made by Mr L and Ms W but the loan 
account is in Mr Ls name so the complaint is made by him alone. For convenience I will 
refer to the purchases as having been made by Mr L alone.
What happened
In August 2008 Mr L purchased a timeshare product from a company I will call C and paid a 
deposit of £3,295. In 2009 he purchased more points at a cost of £2,000. He upgraded 
further and in July 2010 he took out a loan a loan from BPF for £13,850. I gather the loan 
was repaid in July 2013. He ended the contract in February 2014.
Mr L made a complaint to BPF in November 2018.  He said that he had been pressurised 
into making the purchases. He added that he did not receive what he had been promised 
and ended up having to spend more money. He also said that there seemed to be problems 
with availability and he was not expressly informed about the 14-day cooling off period. Mr L 
asked that BPF refund the money he had paid.
BPF rejected his claim on the basis it was made out of time. It also said that he had been 
told about the 14-day cooling off period and had signed a statement of compliance. Mr L 
brought his complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld.
He said that the claim had been made out of time apart from that element covered by s 140A 
CCA. He said that she appreciated there would have been verbal representations in addition 
to the documentation, but he could not say that BPF had been wrong to reach the conclusion 
it had.
Mr L didnt agree and said the product had been grossly misrepresented and much of that 
was verbal. He said that he had been unhappy with the misrepresentation and his ending of 
the contract showed he had begun the process of complaining within the 6-year limit. He 
said our investigator had been wrong to assume he had been a long-term customer of C. 
Rather he had spent more money trying to rectify the initial problems. He added that he had 
not bought a timeshare but membership of a holiday club.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
S 56 and 140A
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations 
between Mr L and C are deemed to have been conducted by C as an agent for BPF. This 
includes any representations made by C and any other dealings between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of C will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between you and the lender.
Time Limits 
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact or law made by one party to a 
contract which is untrue and which induces the other party into that contract. Mr L has set 
out the various claims made to him which led him to agree to buy the product. They were all 
made on or before July 2010, so that is the date on which any cause of action arose.
The Limitation Act applies in a similar way to claims for breach of contract. On the face of it, 
the claims which the CMC have raised are claims that matters were misrepresented, rather 
than being claims for breach of contract. It is likely however that any breach that may be 
alleged occurred many years ago.
I have seen no evidence of any claim being made until the Mr L contacted BPF in November 
2018, some eight years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that 
any claim was made outside the time limits in the Limitation Act. It follows in my view that it 
was reasonable for BPF to decline to consider the misrepresentation and breach of contract 
claims under section 75 and the claims under section 56.
I have noted that Mr L has said that his ending of the agreement in 2014 indicates his 
displeasure and that he had begun a claim. If that was the case I would have expected him 
to have made contact with BPF long before 2018. As such I cannot say a claim was made in 
time.
Misrepresentation
As our investigator has explained we can consider misrepresentation via s140A. In 
considering section 140A, I have had particular regard to whether the loan and sale were 
brought about by selling methods on the part of C that were unfair or misleading. I share our 
investigators view that it is unlikely a court would conclude that Cs actions as an agent of 
BPF created an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement.
Mr L relies on his recollection of what he and his wife were told when making the purchases. 
As our investigator has pointed out the documentary evidence does not show there was 
misrepresentation by C. I have taken note of his testimony and his statement that he is 
aware of others who share his experiences. But I do not consider that is enough.
Mr L has also suggested that the commission paid was unfair. I understand that commission 
was usually paid in these transactions. But, based on the typical rates weve seen, I think its 
unlikely a court would find that the failure to disclose commission in this case created an 
unfair relationship under s.140A.
I appreciate that claims will have been made by representatives of C which will have put the 
best possible gloss on the products. However, it is not clear that what was said amounted to 
misrepresentation. Mr L is asking BPF to make a significant payment and it only reasonable 
to expect that it is given clear evidence to allow it to do so. I do not consider I can say that 
the evidence is sufficient to require me to direct BPF to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman