DRN-3503318
The complaint
Mr G complains that RAC Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim for Motor Legal 
Protection (MLP) and that hes been provided with poor service. 
Where I refer to the RAC, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In January 2020 Mr G was unfortunately involved in an accident. He was driving his car 
when part of a tree fell which resulted in significant damage to his car and caused him injury. 
Mr G made a claim under his motor policy which was underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to 
as A. Mr G was also unhappy with how A handled things. Im aware that one of my 
Ombudsman colleagues has already issued a final decision regarding Mr Gs complaint 
about A. This complaint was upheld and included an award of £1,200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their handling of the claim. 
As part of his policy, Mr G also had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which 
is underwritten by the RAC. He wanted legal support to pursue his losses and 
compensation. Ultimately the RAC declined the claim. They said there were terms and 
conditions which meant Mr G didnt have a valid claim. They accepted their service could 
have been better and offered £200 compensation for the impact of this. But they also 
highlighted that they believed A had repeatedly mis-informed Mr G about his cover with the 
RAC which worsened the situation. 
Being unhappy with this response, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. Once an issue 
surrounding our jurisdiction was resolved, one of our Investigators considered the complaint. 
She didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary she thought RAC had correctly 
applied the policy terms in declining the claim and that the compensation theyd offered was 
fair. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr G, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read all the considerable submissions that Mr G has made in relation to his complaint. 
But I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So if I dont mention a particular point or piece 
of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it and thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I 
need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but is just a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Whilst Mr G has cover for MLP it isnt all encompassing. Like any insurance policy there will 
always be terms, conditions and exclusions that apply. The relevant section of Mr Gs policy 
says:
If you have had an accident that wasnt your fault, we can instruct a solicitorto claim 
compensation for your uninsured losses including any personal injury. This section provides 
cover for your legal expenses incurred in pursuing your claim.
Under the heading of Significant features and limitations of this section of the policy it goes 
on to state:
The identity of the third party must be known and they must have held valid motor 
insurance at the time of the accident.
Third Party is specifically defined in the policy as the other person and/or party responsible 
for the Insured Event excluding You.
The broad circumstances of Mr Gs claim are that part of a tree fell onto a streetlight which in 
turn landed on his car causing damage and injury. Even if it were to be argued that either the 
party responsible for the tree or the streetlight were the third party here, they wouldnt have 
held valid motor insurance in relation to this matter. 
Mr G believes he has a valid legal claim against the party responsible for the tree. But even 
if he does, this isnt something that meets the terms of his policy with the RAC. And whilst 
the RAC provided further reasons, on the basis of this term alone, Im satisfied the claim has 
been fairly declined. I wouldnt expect the RAC to appoint a solicitor for a claim that hasnt 
been accepted. 
It isnt in dispute that the RAC provided misleading information and mismanaged Mr Gs 
expectations in relation to his MLP policy. So I dont need to decide if there was poor service 
here, the RAC accept this and its clear Mr G agrees.
All that remains is to decide if the £200 compensation offered is fair for the impact of this 
poor service. Ive carefully considered all Mr G has said in this regard. Ive no doubt that 
being involved in such a frightening incident had and continues to have a significant impact 
on him. Im also mindful of the Ombudsmans comments on his linked complaint where a not 
insignificant award was made against A. 
In short, a lot of the distress and inconvenience Mr G has experienced isnt the fault of the 
RAC. They arent responsible for the accident itself, nor the actions of A. I must (as far as is 
possible) isolate the impact of the RACs service failings. It wouldnt be fair to tell them to 
provide compensation for distress and inconvenience they arent responsible for. Ive also 
concluded that the claim was fairly declined, which no doubt would have been upsetting for 
Mr G, but again I cant take that distress into consideration here as it isnt a result of an error 
by the RAC. In this context, Im satisfied the £200 already offered is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. If this hasnt already been paid and Mr G would like to accept this, he should 
contact the RAC to arrange this. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to tell the 
RAC they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman