DRN-1400291
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that he wasnt warned until recently by Virgin Money plc (Virgin) that his 
interest free period had ended on his credit card account, and that most of his monthly 
payment was going towards fees and interest, not paying off his debt.
What happened
Mr B took out a 0% interest balance transfer with a credit card company more than ten years 
ago. That account is now managed by Virgin. Mr B had continued to make his payments in 
the belief that all the money was gradually paying off his debt. Virgin wrote to him recently to 
tell him that most of each payment was going towards interest and fees, not paying off the 
debt. Mr B was shocked, he didnt think he was paying any interest or fees.
Mr B paid off the debt. He said if hed been told this earlier, he would have paid earlier. He 
thought it was appalling that Virgin had waited several years from when his interest fee 
period ended to write to him. He wanted Virgin to repay him the interest and fees hed been 
charged, together with compensation for significant upset.
Virgin said Mr B opened this account in late 2010. His interest free period ended in 
December 2011. Virgin took over responsibility for this card in 2015.
Mr B hadnt registered for Virgins online banking service or for paper statements. But Virgin 
did have an email address for him, and it emailed him every month to tell him about his 
statements. Those statements showed his interest rate. 
Virgin said its terms and conditions do tell customers that they need to get in touch if they 
havent received a statement. 
Mr B said he hadnt received any correspondence telling him that he was paying more in 
interest and fees than he was towards the debt, in the last ten years. Hed never looked at 
his statements. He knew the payments were being made, so he didnt think he needed to. 
Our investigator knew Virgin had been sending emails about Mr Bs statements to an inbox 
Mr B wasnt regularly viewing, but he thought it was Mr Bs responsibility to keep his details 
updated with Virgin, and his responsibility to check his statements. Our investigator showed 
Mr B the sections of his card agreement setting out those responsibilities. He said Virgin had 
contacted Mr B when it took over the management of his card, and if Mr B had replied then, 
or contacted Virgin after that, he would have been able to view his account. 
Our investigator said Virgin wasnt obliged to write to Mr B every year about the interest on 
his account. It had contacted Mr B as part of a scheme to alert customers to the 
management of their accounts. He said Virgin wasnt wrong for not sending this earlier. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mr B asked if it was responsible lending to only communicate via a statement, when a debt 
has been dormant or stagnant, and a customer hasnt responded or changed their behaviour 
in response to statements. Should a responsible lender attempt other forms of 
communication, particularly for such a large sum of money, and over such a long period?
Our investigator said it was the customers responsibility to notify Virgin if there was a 
problem with statements. He said Virgins attempt to email Mr B and also send him a letter 
was a reasonable level of communication about his account. 
Because Mr B didnt agree, our investigator passed this complaint to me to finalise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
New rules now require credit card providers to contact customers if they continue only 
paying the minimum each month. But those rules werent in place for most of the time that 
Mr B was paying off this debt. I wouldnt have expected Virgin to write to Mr B regularly over 
the time that hes held this card to tell him hes being charged interest, and point out the 
effect of only paying the minimum payment.
The information that Mr B needed was on his statements, and Virgin was making those 
available to him. So I dont think its Virgins fault if Mr B wasnt aware, before Virgin wrote to 
him, of the interest he was paying. And I dont think it was Virgins fault if he hadnt realised 
how much of the monthly payment was taken up by interest and fees. 
I think Virgin did enough to notify Mr B that he was paying interest by providing monthly 
statements, and notifying him of how to access these. It then complied with new rules 
requiring it to write to Mr B, about the management of his account. 
I dont think Virgin has been unfair or unreasonable. So, although I know Mr B will be 
disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman