DRN-4160307
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage which, until recently, Ms K held with 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. Shes unhappy that Halifax closed the mortgage 
down when she wanted it kept open with a nominal balance.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms K and Halifax. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. Instead, Ill provide a brief 
summary of the key points, rounding the figures involved, and then focus on the reasons for 
my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because 
I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ms K tells us she wanted to reduce her mortgage balance to mitigate against rising interest 
rates when her fixed rate deal ended on 28 February 2023. Her idea was to borrow money 
from other sources (family and/or friends) and pay the mortgage down to a nominal balance, 
with the intention of re-borrowing the money later (when rates fell again) without having to 
incur the costs of raising a new mortgage. Ms K had several phone conversations with 
Halifax about her intention to pay down the mortgage, and the mechanism for doing so. 
On 1 March 2023, Ms K paid £192,500 into her mortgage using Halifaxs overpayment 
mechanism. Ms K anticipated this would leave a balance of a little under £500 on her 
mortgage account; however, a direct debit payment was taken on the same day, for around 
£1,330. This amount had already been recalculated upwards in anticipation of the mortgage 
reverting to the standard variable rate. 
As this took the balance below zero, Halifaxs accounting system treated the account has 
having been redeemed in full. Halifax closed the account, released its charge and, in due 
course, refunded the surplus of around £850.
When Ms K complained that this wasnt shed wanted, Halifax declined to re-open the 
mortgage account but paid Ms K £200 compensation. It also explained that the mortgage 
wasnt one that allowed borrowers simply to re-draw money theyd already repaid. So even if 
the account hadnt been closed, Halifax said any future desire to borrow again would have 
required a formal application and been subject to underwriting.
Having listened to recordings of Ms Ks phone conversations with Halifax, our investigator 
thought Halifax had dealt with the complaint fairly. Whilst Ms K had mentioned that keeping 
the account open was one possibility she was considering, the first time she said she 
definitely wanted to do that was in a call on 1 March 2023, the day the transactions 
happened. By that time, the investigator concluded, it was too late to stop the account 
closure going through, and Halifax wasnt obliged to re-open it. 
Ms K asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That has included listening to recordings of Ms Ks various phone conversations with Halifax 
in the run up to the account closure. Having done so, I agree with our investigator that the 
first point at which Ms K made a clear and unambiguous statement to Halifax that she 
wanted the account kept open with a nominal balance was on 1 March 2023. 
In the calls prior to that, Ms K was uncommitted on whether that was the route shed take. 
More importantly, at no time any of those calls did Ms K say why she might keep the 
mortgage open: i.e. in order to be able to re-borrow what she had repaid in the future. So 
there was no opportunity for Halifax to advise her that wasnt something she could do in any 
event.
In asking for her case to be decided by an ombudsman, Ms K said there had been other 
calls to Halifax from different numbers. We obtained those numbers from her and asked 
Halifax to check, but no other calls were located. 
I have to decide a case on the basis of the evidence that is available, and here Im 
persuaded that the call recordings we have allow me to reach a fair conclusion. That 
conclusion is that Ms Ks mortgage account wasnt closed as a result of errors or omissions 
on Halifaxs part. 
Rather, it was closed due to an unfortunate combination of timing (i.e. the lump sum 
payment being made on the same day as the newly-increased direct debit was taken) along 
with the largely automated nature of Halifaxs accounting system. I accept the payment of 
the lump sum via the overpayment mechanism indicated what Ms K wanted to do, but that 
wasnt what triggered the account closure process. It was the direct debit payment that took 
the balance to below zero.
Once that had happened, I note Halifax did consider reversing the closure, but ultimately 
decided not to. In my view, that was a reasonable response. Halifax wasnt obliged to restore 
the mortgage with a nominal balance, and even if it had done so, Ms K could not simply 
have redrawn her original debt when she was ready to do so. Shed have had to apply 
formally for new lending, and any application would have been subject to an assessment of 
her circumstances against Halifaxs underwriting criteria at the relevant time.
Halifax paid Ms K £200 compensation for a lack of clarity in the 1 March 2023 phone call 
about the prospect of the account being re-instated. In all the circumstances, I think thats 
fair for what was in effect, a failure to manage expectations. If no payment had been made, 
I would not order more.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman