DRN-2752323
The complaint
 Mr T has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) mis-sold him a 
fee-paying Signature packaged bank account which was sold to him in late 2010.
Mr T says he was advised to upgrade his account to a fee-paying Signature account. He 
says it was sold on the basis that it came with insurance benefits. Mr T says that he was told 
that the benefits would cover his whole family and he has since discovered that they did not - 
they only covered him. He says he understands that he needs to register phones and 
gadgets for them to be covered and says this wasnt explain to him during the sale.
Mr T is also unhappy because he says he asked for his account to be downgraded, and it 
wasnt. In the end Mr T closed his account with Yorkshire Bank and switched to another 
provider.
 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 18 October 2021, in which I explained that I was minded to 
partially uphold this complaint. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website and Ive used that to help me 
decide this complaint. Having done so, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint, in part. 
I will explain why.
Was the Signature account mis-sold?
Ive started out by considering whether Mr T was given a fair choice in upgrading his 
account.
Looking at Mr Ts recollections of the sale, it seems that Mr T agreed to the Signature 
account after he was told about the insurance benefits it provided by a member of staff at 
Yorkshire Bank. But Mr T has not said anything to suggest that he was led to believe that the 
change to the Signature account was somehow compulsory, or that a fee-free account was 
no longer an option for him. And as he had held a fee-free account with Yorkshire bank prior 
to this sale, overall, I think that Mr T agreed to the account knowing it was optional, and that 
he couldve continued with his existing fee-free account if he didnt want the Signature 
account. So I think Mr T was given a fair choice when the Signature account was sold to 
him.
Mr T says the account was recommended to him, whereas Yorkshire Bank says that it was 
sold on a non-advised sale. Looking at Mr Ts testimony, he believes that because he was 
approached by a member of staff and told about the account benefits (rather than proactively 
choosing the account himself) this means it mustve been an advised sale. However, I 
disagree.
An advised sale is one where a financial business carries out an assessment of an 
individuals demands and needs and then recommends a product because it specifically 
meets those needs. However, in this case, Mr T says that Yorkshire bank didnt assess his 
needs. And I cant see that the account was recommended because it met a particular need 
either. Furthermore, if it was the case that Yorkshire Bank had told him about the account 
benefits and he was persuaded to agree to it because he was attracted to them  which is 
what I think most likely happened  this doesnt mean it was an advised sale either. So, 
based on what I have seen, I think the Signature account was sold on a non-advised basis.
This means that Yorkshire Bank was not required to check if it was right for him. However,
Yorkshire Bank was still required to give Mr T the important information about the account so
that he could decide for himself whether it was worth taking out.
Mr T appears to have been aware that the account cost £10 per month when he agreed to it. 
Mr T also seems to have been told that the account came with mobile phone and gadget 
insurance, but says he was not made aware of the need to register his phones and gadgets. 
Ive checked the policy terms and conditions in November 2010 and there was no 
requirement to register phones and gadgets. So I cant say that the account was mis-sold for 
this reason, as it was not a requirement of the policy at the time.
Mr T has also said that he was led to believe that his family was covered, but has since 
discovered they are not. Due to the lack of evidence from the time of the sale, I dont know 
what exactly was discussed. However, I can see that the account did provide worldwide 
travel insurance that did include family cover, and not just cover for the account holder. So I 
think its likely that Mr Ts recollections of being told about family cover could relate to this 
specific benefit, rather than to all of the insurance benefits.
So taking everything into account, I think Mr T was given at least some information about the
account benefits and cost.
I accept that Mr T might not have been given all of the important information about the 
account and associated benefits during the sale. But from looking at his circumstances at the 
time, Ive not seen anything that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to 
it, had he been given more information about it. Furthermore, Mr T has not said anything that 
makes me think hes lost out financially e.g. a declined claim, because of information he 
might not have been provided with during the sale of the account. So taking everything into 
account, overall I dont think that the account was mis-sold or that Mr T has lost out due to 
anything that Yorkshire Bank had failed to do when the account was sold to him.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, or perhaps because of what hes read in the 
media about packaged accounts, Mr T may now feel that it has been poor value for money
and he now regrets agreeing to the Signature account. But that in itself doesnt mean that
Yorkshire Bank was wrong to have sold the account to Mr T when it did.
Finally, I can see that Mr T feels aggrieved that - apart from sending him the annual eligibility 
statements (that Yorkshire bank was obliged to send since 2013) - Yorkshire Bank never 
checked whether the account continued to be suitable for him. But Yorkshire Bank was not 
required to do this. So whilst it mightve been useful for Mr T had Yorkshire Bank done this, I 
cant say it was being unfair or unreasonable because it didnt do this. So in other words, it 
was up to Mr T to downgrade to a fee-free account or close his account if he felt it was no 
longer worth having.
Downgrading the Signature accountWhen Mr T complained to Yorkshire Bank, I can see that he asked for his account to be
downgraded to a fee-free account. However, Mr T didnt specify which account he wanted it
to be changed too. So in its response to the complaint, Yorkshire Bank said that it had
arranged for a team to contact Mr T to discuss which account he wanted to change to. The
letter explained that if Yorkshire Bank isnt able to contact him, he could call a telephone
number to complete the downgrade, and it explained that he could also do this in branch.
Yorkshire Bank has provided evidence to show that the downgrading team (also known as
the Sales team) was notified on 25 August 2020 that Mr T wanted to downgrade his account.
And there is evidence to suggest that the Sales team tried contacting him, but it was unable
to speak with Mr T, so it left him a voicemail with the telephone number to call back, to action
the downgraded.
Based on the above, I think that Yorkshire Bank took reasonable steps to speak to Mr T 
about downgrading his account. And I think it provided him with clear information in the final
response letter that made it clear that his account was still a Signature account but also how
to go about selecting another fee-free account. As such, I dont think Yorkshire Bank acted
unreasonably in initially addressing Mr Ts request to downgrade.
The next contact I can see Mr T had with Yorkshire Bank was on 2 October 2020. Mr T 
called and he said his account shouldve already been downgraded. The person he spoke to
confirmed that if hed requested for it to be downgraded in August 2020 then it shouldve
already happened by now. The line cut, so Mr T called back again. In this call Mr T is told if
he wants to downgrade his account he needs to speak to the Sales team. The staff member
asks Mr T if he wants to be put through to the Sales team and he initially says yes. But Mr T
then changes his mind and instead asks to be put through to the complaints department
instead.
Unfortunately Yorkshire bank does not have a copy of the conversation Mr T had with the
complaints department - so its difficult (especially as Mr T had already declined the 
opportunity to speak to the team who could downgrade his account) for me to say whether
Yorkshire Bank failed to take reasonable action during this conversation with the complaints
department. However, I note that Mr T says that he discussed downgrading his account with
the complaints manager and he was told that it would take as long as it needs to or words
to that effect. But as Ive not listened to this call, and Yorkshire Bank dont appear to have a
copy of this, I dont think itd be appropriate to say that Yorkshire Bank had acted
unreasonably.
Nevertheless, the next call Mr T made to Yorkshire Bank was only a short while later, on 15 
October 2020. Mr T called up as he had difficulties using his card to make purchases. During 
this call, Mr T explains that hes still paying for a Signature account and says that this 
shouldve been downgraded to a fee-free account months ago. Although the conversation 
was not initially about the Signature account, I think Yorkshire Bank missed an opportunity to 
assist Mr T in downgrading his account during this call. Afterall, Mr T had made it clear he 
didnt want it anymore and wanted a fee-free account, so I dont think its unreasonable to 
say that Yorkshire Bank couldve done something to help Mr T to downgrade his account, 
e.g. by putting him through to the Sales team.
The next time Mr T calls Yorkshire Bank looks to have been on 10 March 2021. This call
does not relate to his account still being a packaged account, so I wont comment further on
it.
Mr T then calls again on 25 March 2021 as he had issues changing a standing order and
had questions about going paperless. The matter of his Signature account not being
downgraded is also raised by Mr T in this call. The member of staff agrees to raise a newcomplaint about the downgrading issue, although I note that Mr T had earlier said in the call
that he does not want to speak to the complaints department again. Although the call on 25
March was largely about the issue with the standing orders and paperless statements, as Mr
T had raised his concerns about downgrading again, I think Yorkshire Bank couldve done
more to assist Mr T in getting his account downgraded at this point.
Mr T called again on 6 July 2021 as he said he wanted to close his account as it was still 
operating as a Signature account. Mr T was then transferred to the complaints department 
and was told that it would not engage with him any further on the matter, as his complaint 
was being dealt with by our service.
I dont think it was reasonable to refuse to downgrade Mr Ts account (or not to have at least 
put him through to the department that could downgrade it), just because Mr T had an 
ongoing complaint with our service. I do understand that Yorkshire Bank may not want to 
have engaged with Mr T about the ins and outs of his complaint. And that is reasonable, 
given that it had already issued its final response to the complaint. But as Mr T was still an 
existing customer at the time, Yorkshire Bank was still required to carry out normal customer 
service functions  including downgrading an account if a request is made by the consumer.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I think that Yorkshire Bank missed various 
opportunities to assist Mr T in getting his account downgraded  with the first opportunity 
being on 15 October 2020. And because of this I think Mr T lost out financially. And from 
listening to the calls Mr T had, its clear that Mr T experienced a great deal of frustration and 
inconvenience because he wasnt able to downgrade his account. And I think the fact Mr T 
felt compelled to switched his account to another provider as that seemed, to him, the only 
way to stop the monthly signature account fee from debiting his account is a reflection of the 
unnecessary inconvenience Mr T was caused, as a result of Yorkshire Banks failure to help 
him.
Putting matters right
Based on everything Ive seen so far, I currently think that Yorkshire Bank should do the
following, to put matters right.
Refund the Signature account fees Mr T was charged from 15 October 2020 until the 
account was closed - which I understand was 15 July 2021;
As Mr T has not had the benefit of this money, Yorkshire Bank should also pay him 
8% simple interest, calculated from the date of each fee to the date of settlement, 
less tax; and
Pay Mr T £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by failing to assist him in 
getting his account downgraded.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Yorkshire Bank to take off tax from this interest. 
Yorkshire Bank must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks 
for one.
Yorkshire Bank didnt respond to my provisional decision, but Mr T did respond with a 
number of points, which I will address below.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
Having considered the additional points raised by Mr T, I still think the findings and proposed 
redress I outlined in my provisional decision is fair.
In his response to the provisional decision, Mr T says that my provisional decision casts him 
as a person who is not believed based on events. Im sorry Mr T feels like that, but when 
deciding complaints where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case 
here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on everything 
that is available. Therefore, I cant just take Mr Ts recollections of events on their own, but 
instead I need to weigh them up against what Yorkshire Bank says and everything else that 
is available.
Mr T also says that Yorkshire Bank never assessed his suitability for the account during the 
sale and questions how this is seen as acceptable. In short, where a packaged account is 
sold on non-advised basis  which I think is the case here for the reasons outlined in my 
provisional decision  the business selling the account is not obliged to check whether it will 
meet the accountholders needs. In other words, it is for the account holder to decide that for 
themselves with the information that they are provided with by the business.
I note that Mr T insists that he was told that the account would provide cover for his entire 
family. But, as I pointed out in my provisional decision, its possible that Mr T recalled being 
told about the family travel cover. And bearing in mind that the sale of the account happened 
over ten years ago, and given that recollections can fade and change over time, I cant rule 
out the possibility that Mr T mayve misremembered this. And in the circumstances, I am 
unable to say that it was more likely than not that Yorkshire Bank incorrectly told Mr T that 
the account would provide family cover for all of the benefits  given that only one of them 
actually did.
Mr T has mentioned that there was only one signature account, so it was not difficult to 
establish which account needed to be downgraded when he asked for it to be. However, the 
point I made in my provisional decision was not that there was ambiguity about which 
account needed changing. Instead, what Id said was that there was ambiguity about which 
account the Signature account should be changed to. Mr T had asked for it to be 
downgraded but didnt specify which account it should be changed to. And that is why I 
thought it was reasonable for Yorkshire Bank to contact Mr T to establish which account he 
wanted to replace it with and to run through the terms and conditions of the new account 
with him.
I understand that Mr T feels it wouldve been fair had Yorkshire Bank reached an early 
compromise with him about his complaint. However, as much as Mr T mayve wanted this, it 
was up to Yorkshire Bank to decide whether to find in his favour or not. And I can only 
assess the complaint based on what did happen. And for the reasons outlined above and in 
my provisional decision, I dont think that the account was mis-sold. Therefore, it follows that 
I dont think Yorkshire Banks decision to not find in his favour or to settle the mis-selling 
complaint early was unreasonable.  
Mr T says that he feels the award of £200 is not sufficient. However, having reconsidered the 
events and considered what our approach is to awarding compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, I think the award is reasonable. In saying this, I would like to point out that as 
I dont think the account was mis-sold, the compensation is only in relation to the phone 
conversations Mr T had with Yorkshire Bank where he said he wanted his account 
downgraded and this essentially fell on deaf ears. I have also taken into account the fact he was given the opportunity in early October 2020 to speak to the sales team to downgrade his 
account and he declined this offer.
As such, for the reasons outlined above and in my provisional decision, whilst I dont think 
the Signature account was mis-sold, I do think that Yorkshire Bank couldve done more to 
support Mr T in downgrading his account.
Putting things right
Based on everything Ive seen, I think that Yorkshire Bank should do the following, to put 
matters right.
Refund the Signature account fees Mr T was charged from 15 October 2020 until the 
account was closed - which I understand was 15 July 2021; and
Pay Mr T 8% simple interest on those fees, calculated from the date of each fee to 
the date of settlement, less tax; and
Pay Mr T £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by failing to assist him in 
getting his account downgraded.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Yorkshire Bank to take off tax from this interest. 
Yorkshire Bank must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
in part. 
I therefore require Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) to do what I have set 
out above to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman