DRN-3489646
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has not met its obligations in regard to a 
transaction he made on his credit card to get out of a Timeshare agreement.
What happened
In February 2017 Mr L had a Timeshare type agreement which he wanted to get out of. 
Around that time he came into contact with a company who said it provided Timeshare 
Relinquishment services (which I will call Firm R). It said could help get him out of the 
timeshare agreement and potentially support and advise on a legal claim about the 
timeshare. It would provide this service for a fee.  So Mr L paid Firm R by credit card the 
initial amount of £1194. He then paid seven instalments of £240 for these services.
Mr L says he never received any real services or refund from Firm R. He says hes paid for 
services he didnt get. He says he was pressured into this timeshare relinquishment service 
and falsely misrepresented into entering the agreement. So he complained to Tesco in 2019.
Tesco tried to consider the matter but couldnt get the sufficient documents from Mr Ls 
representatives. So it couldnt say his claim was successful so it said it wouldnt refund the 
amounts hed paid. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator considered the matter and found that Tesco hadnt done anything that led to 
Mr L losing out because of what it had done. Mr L still hasnt had his money back and is still 
unhappy and accordingly this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm R or other firms like it. This is 
because these companies arent within the jurisdiction of this service. This decision is solely 
about what Tesco did or didnt do in relation to its obligations. And it should be remembered 
that Tesco are only involved in this issue as a result of its managing Mr Ls credit card 
account which he used to these transactions to Firm R. In essence the test I must consider 
is whether the transactions were made correctly, and whether Tescos position in regard to 
Chargeback and Mr Ls Section 75 claim to it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was fair.
Ive considered everything that has happened here and unfortunately for Mr L his complaint 
about Tesco fails. I shall explain why.
Mr L doesnt contest that he made the transactions originally, or that they were applied 
incorrectly to his account. Ive considered the transactions and Im satisfied Tesco didnt do 
anything wrong in processing them or allocating those amounts to his account.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr L does 
here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process 
operated by the card scheme (which isnt Tesco here). So Tesco isnt the final arbiter in 
whether the Chargeback is successful-the card scheme is. And Chargeback isnt a right, but 
this Service does consider it good practice to raise a Chargeback if within the time limits and 
there is a reasonable prospect of success.
I dont think Tesco couldve challenged the payments on the basis Mr L didnt properly 
authorise the transactions, given that Mr L freely accepts he made them for this service from 
Firm R by using his Tesco credit card. And Im not persuaded it has been wrongly applied to 
his account.
Secondly the Card Scheme used here has rules as to how and when Chargebacks can be 
raised to challenge disputed transactions. The rules are clear on the timeframes applicable 
and I can see that between when Mr L made the transactions in 2017 and when he raised 
the issue with Tesco years later there is a substantial time span. And this timespan is 
significantly outside the timeframes set out in this particular card schemes rules. As it is so 
far out of time and thus didnt have a reasonable prospect of success, I dont think Tesco 
has treated Mr L unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback once it was on notice of a dispute 
here. 
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974? 
Mr L used his credit card with Tesco for the transactions. This means Tesco has certain 
responsibilities to Mr L which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me to go into great detail about 
how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr L to hold Tesco 
liable for breaches of contract by Firm R, or material misrepresentations made by it in 
relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a breach 
of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under 
that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and 
transpires to be untrue leading to detriment. But Tesco are only liable if breach of contract or 
material misrepresentation by Firm R is made out. It is not responsible for Firm Rs conduct 
wholly, but rather only if either of these two areas are made out.
It is clear that Mr L is very much of the opinion that Firm R breached the contract made and 
particularly made misrepresentations to him which led to him losing out. But before deciding 
on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some requirements set out in 
the Act which also have to be met before these issues can be considered. One of these tests 
is around financial limits and having considered these I think on balance that Mr Ls claim 
meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the Act for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. Ive 
considered what has happened here and Im satisfied that this dispute regarding this credit 
card transaction meets the prerequisites for a claim to have the opportunity of being 
successful.
So was there breach of contract or material misrepresentation?
Mr L has provided a number of documents relating to what was agreed with Firm R including 
Terms of business, forms of authority and FAQs. These documents provide no guarantees 
of results or timelines of what will be provided. It has a section which explains what the client gets for their upfront payment, this includes Firm R will peruse your timeshare contract, 
provide advice, source legal advice if necessary and potentially commence a separate no 
win no fee claim. There is also a section in the documentation which is titled Is there any 
guarantee I will win for paying £1995 plus VAT? Immediately below this section there is only 
one sentence Nothing is ever certain but having reviewed your case we are confident we 
can help you.
So having considered all of the documentation that has been supplied there are no 
guarantees of success and no time dependent guarantees to delivering any part of the 
service. And seeing as it is Mr Ls representatives that have provided it on his behalf Im 
satisfied it is what was agreed at the time.
I can also see that Firm R has liaised with Mr L and other parties in relation to his Timeshare 
after it entered this agreement with Mr L.
 
Ive also seen that Mr Ls timeshare provider has confirmed that in November 2018 it 
repossessed his timeshare membership and points as Mr L hadnt paid his membership to it 
since 2016. So its clear that what Mr L wanted to achieve, namely getting out of the 
timeshare, was achieved. And I can see that Firm R were in contact with the Timeshare 
Provider and explained to it that Mr L was looking to get out of the timeshare. And I can see 
evidence of Firm R saying it was talking to the Timeshare provider about Mr Ls unpaid 
management fees due to the timeshare provider. 
So it appears Mr L could have got out of the timeshare without Firm Rs help. Nevertheless it 
is clear he chose to enter this contract with Firm R and paid for it over a significant period of 
time. And had regular liaison with Firm R during this time. Ive not seen any persuasive 
evidence of Firm R breaching the contract agreed. So I dont see a reason for Tesco to have 
found any breach and thus I dont see it has treated him unfairly by not refunding him.
Mr L says he was misrepresented into agreeing the contract. Hes not provided any 
persuasive detailed explanation of what these misrepresentations were, and how he was 
induced into entering a contract he otherwise wouldnt have entered. And Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence from the correspondence with Firm R about such inducements to enter 
a contract he wouldnt have entered otherwise.
Similarly Mr L says he was pressured into this contract. His description of the sales process 
and his conduct and correspondence afterwards doesnt give this position much support. 
And he doesnt give any persuasive detailed explanation of how this pressure manifested. 
And if hed been pressured into it I think it unlikely hed continue to keep paying Firm R for 
some months afterwards.
Tesco obligations here are to consider Mr Ls s75 claim to it and if breach of contract or 
material misrepresentation are made out to redress the matter as if it were the supplier (Firm 
R) here. Tesco is not responsible for the customer service of Firm R. It can only be held 
responsible for losses as a result of breach of contract or misrepresentation. Due to what 
happened here it never got an opportunity to properly consider breach or misrepresentation. 
But I dont think Mr L has lost out as a result. Ive seen no persuasive reason to conclude 
there was a breach of contract or a misrepresentation here by Firm R. And when our 
Investigator put similar views to Mr L and his representatives, his representatives didnt put 
forward any new evidence or counter arguments at all.
As a consequence of everything that happened here I dont think Tesco has treated Mr L 
unfairly. Ultimately Firm R did liaise with Mr L and the Timeshare provider. Mr Ls goal of 
extrication from the timeshare was achieved. There simply isnt persuasive evidence to show 
the contract was breached by Firm R or that it was materially misrepresented to him. So having considered everything that has happened here Im not persuaded that Tesco has 
treated Mr L unfairly. And consequently Mr Ls complaint is unsuccessful.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr L wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position and he clearly feels that Firm R hasnt treated him fairly. But this isnt Tesco 
fault. Here Tesco is only responsible for the transaction itself, its consideration of 
chargeback and its consideration of the s75 claim Mr L made to it. And within that scope and 
the obligations Tesco has Im satisfied it hasnt treated him unfairly in not refunding him what 
he paid Firm R.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint about Tesco Personal Finance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman