DRN-4237045
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to treat her appropriately 
when she was deciding how to take pension benefits due to her following the death of her 
husband.
What happened
Mrs M has been assisted in making this complaint, initially by her son and more recently by a 
financial advisor. But in this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication as 
having been with, and from, Mrs M herself.
Mrs Ms husband sadly passed away in November 2021. At the time he was older than 
75 years of age and held pension savings with Aviva. Aviva determined that Mrs M was 
entitled to be the beneficiary of those pension benefits following her husbands death.
Aviva wrote to Mrs M in February 2022. It confirmed the pension benefits that were due to 
her, and provided her with a number of options about how those benefits could be paid. 
Around a week later Mrs M signed an application form, asking for the pension benefits to be 
paid to her as a single lump sum. Aviva completed that payment to Mrs M in April 2022.
Mrs Ms husband was over 75 years of age when he passed away. So, as Aviva explained 
when it sent the benefit options information to Mrs M, the payment was taxable. So it was 
required to deduct income tax, using an emergency tax code, from the payment it made to 
Mrs M.
Mrs M complained to Aviva about the deduction of the income tax around a week later. She 
said that she was unaware that income tax would be deducted from the payment, and asked 
whether a cooling off period applied during which she could return the payment. Aviva said 
that it was unable to allow the payment to be returned, and any questions about the tax 
implications of the payment would be better answered by HMRC.
Mrs Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Aviva had 
made it sufficiently clear that the payment would attract income tax. He didnt think Aviva 
was responsible for providing Mrs M with any advice, or guidance, about how she should 
proceed. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs M didnt agree with that assessment. She said that, due to the recent bereavement, she 
was particularly vulnerable at that time, and Aviva should have taken additional care in its 
dealings with her. She said that Aviva had failed to make her sufficiently aware of the 
taxation of the payment, and that it had failed to identify the additional support she should 
have been given. As a result she said that she had needlessly paid a significant amount of 
income tax. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs M and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I would like to start by offering my condolences to Mrs M, and her family. I am sure that the 
circumstances that led up to the matters I am considering here were very difficult, and no 
doubt continue to be so.
Mrs M has said that she was particularly vulnerable at the time she was making her decision 
about the pension benefits. And she says that I should apply the same assessment of 
vulnerability to her son, who completed the application form for the lump sum payment, on 
her behalf. I think that is a reasonable conclusion to reach, and so in line with the regulators 
expectations, I would expect Aviva to show concern for the vulnerable state that Mrs M might 
have been in at that time.
But I think it is important to note that the regulators expectations on the treatment of 
vulnerable consumers are not prescriptive, in the sense that they might be for example when 
looking at the checks needed to be performed before offering a loan. Instead, and in my view 
quite rightly, the guidance expects firms to identify any particular issues faced by a 
consumer at the time, and adapt their communications and product offerings accordingly.
It appears that Mrs M initially got in touch with Aviva by phone around two months after her 
husbands death. In response to that call Aviva sent her a letter explaining the options she 
had available in relation to her late husbands pension savings. I think that was a reasonable 
approach, as it enabled Mrs M to consider her options in her own time, without the pressure 
that might be faced during an extended phone conversation. It doesnt appear that Mrs M 
gave any indications to Aviva that she would find it difficult to read, or understand, 
information that was presented in writing.
The letter that Aviva sent to Mrs M didnt suggest that there was any time pressure, or 
deadline, for making her decision. It encouraged her to carefully consider the options she 
had available, and said that Aviva would always recommend that decisions of this nature be 
discussed with a financial advisor before being finalised. Aviva also offered Mrs M access to 
its specialist claims management team either by telephone or email.
Aviva asked Mrs M to call when she had reached her decision. But it told her that if she was 
choosing the lump sum option, and preferred not to call, she could simply return an included 
form. Mrs M took that option and sought the assistance of her son to complete the form that 
she sent back to Aviva a few days later.So I am satisfied that Aviva took account of the potential vulnerability of Mrs M when it 
sought her decision on how the pension benefits should be paid. It provided information in 
writing so Mrs M had time to consider her decision when she was best able. Aviva 
recommended that Mrs M should seek advice from a financial advisor, and it offered the 
opportunity to contact its specialist team either by phone or email. And it placed no time 
constraints on the decision Mrs M needed to make, allowing her the opportunity to carefully 
consider her options when she felt up to it.
But I dont think that should be the end of my consideration of the complaint. I also need to 
look at the information that was provided to Mrs M, and make sure that I am satisfied she 
was given enough information about her choices.
Aviva wasnt providing Mrs M with any advice, or a recommendation, about which of the 
benefit options would be best for her circumstances. So the choice of how the pension 
benefits should be paid was essentially something for Mrs M to decide for herself. But Aviva 
did need to ensure that it provided sufficient information on which Mrs M could base that 
decision.
The crux of Mrs Ms complaint is that Aviva failed to make it sufficiently clear that the lump 
sum payment would suffer the deduction of income tax. She says that had she been made 
aware of how the payment would be taxed she would have most likely decided to take 
withdrawals from the pension savings over a number of years to minimise the income tax 
shed need to pay.
I think I should reiterate here that Aviva wasnt providing Mrs M with any advice. And that is 
even more important when considering how a payment might affect her tax affairs. Aviva 
would have no knowledge of Mrs Ms other sources of income and the effect any other 
income might have on her individual taxation liability. So although I would expect Aviva to 
provide some general information about the taxation of pension payments it would be very 
unlikely that it could, or should, provide information specific to Mrs Ms own circumstances.
The information that Aviva sent to Mrs M set out the amount of lump sum she would be paid. 
But that was immediately followed by some explanatory text that said, This payment amount 
is taxable. And immediately beneath that text was a further section headed Things to 
remember. That then went on to tell Mrs M that, HM Revenue & Customs rules may affect 
the amount of lump sum and how it is taxed.
So I think Aviva made it clear to Mrs M that the lump sum payment would be taxable and 
HMRC rules would affect the amount she would receive. As Ive explained earlier, it was for 
Mrs M to ascertain how the payment of the lump sum would affect her individual taxation 
situation  that wasnt information that Aviva could provide to her.
When Aviva made the payment to Mrs M it was required to deduct income tax using an 
emergency tax code. That meant that it deducted income tax amounting to £44,729 from the 
lump sum payment. I understand that Mrs M might be able to reclaim some of that deduction 
from HMRC depending on her personal tax situation. But, Aviva simply did what was 
required by the relevant legislation in making that deduction.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs M. But I am satisfied that Aviva 
treated her fairly and in line with the regulators expectations given her recent bereavement. 
I think that Aviva made it clear that taking her pension benefits as a lump sum would require 
her to pay income tax on the money she received. And I think that Aviva acted correctly in 
calculating the income tax it should deduct. So I dont think the complaint should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman