DRN-3347957
The complaint
Mrs G is complaining that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited set up an 
incorrect policy for her.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs G took out a Family Income Benefit policy. This was a type of term assurance 
policy set to pay out a monthly amount if Mrs G passed away during the term. The monthly 
payment would continue to the end of the term. Mrs Gs policy was set up for a term of 17 
years and was £20 per month. It would pay out £744.82 per month until the end of the term if 
Mrs G passed away during that term.
In 2021, Mrs G said she didnt realise she had this type of policy. She wanted a whole of life 
policy that would pay out on death. She complained as she felt she had been given the 
incorrect policy. Royal London explained that this policy was taken out over the phone 
without any advice being given. But it said Mrs G selected the Family Income Benefit option 
and it had sent her the relevant paperwork which set out what she had. Mrs G said she 
never received the paperwork and referred her complaint to this service. She would like a 
refund of premiums.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that whilst Royal 
London couldnt provide a call recording from 2016, it did provide the sales script which 
showed it was likely Mrs G was given the options of a level term policy, a decreasing term 
policy or a family income policy and it was likely she chose the latter. She also said it was 
clear what the policy was from the paperwork sent to her. She said that Royal London didnt 
recommend she takes this policy, so wasnt responsible for ensuring it was suitable. But she 
didnt think it had made an error.
Mrs G disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said she 
wanted a policy that would pay out on death and didnt accept that the policy was received 
within the cooling off period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs G took out this policy over the phone in 2016. Royal London has said it no longer has 
the call recordings and this isnt surprising given its been over five years. Royal London has 
provided a script that their agents should follow when selling these policies over the phone. 
Ive considered this, as well as the submissions from Mrs G, when determining what is most 
likely to have happened. Royal London said it didnt give advice to Mrs G in relation to this 
policy. What it means by this is that it didnt make a personal recommendation based on her 
circumstances. I cant see that Mrs G has said she felt a personal recommendation had 
been made and its clear from the script that Royal London only provided information about 
the life cover available for Mrs G to make a choice. As Royal London didnt provide advice, it 
wasnt responsible for ensuring the policy was suitable. But it did need to give enough 
information for Mrs G to make an informed choice.
Looking at the script Royal London provided, I can see that Mrs G wouldve called in and 
three options were offered. Option one was a level term policy  which wouldve provided the 
same sum assured for the term of the policy if Mrs G passed away. Option two was a 
decreasing term policy where the sum assured wouldve decreased over the term of the 
policy. Option three was a Family Income Benefit policy  which is what Mrs G took out. I 
understand Mrs G has said throughout the complaint that she wanted a policy that would pay 
out on death  the policy she has would do that, it would pay a monthly amount for the term 
of the policy had she passed away during that term.
I think its likely the Royal London agent followed the script and provided the information 
about the policies available and how they worked. In any event, I can see that on 2 May 
2016, Royal London sent Mrs G her welcome letter and policy documents. This was sent to 
the correct address and included how her policy worked, what it would pay and when it 
ended. So, Im satisfied Royal London has provided Mrs G with sufficient information about 
the policy and gave her the option to cancel the policy at no cost within 30 days.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs G was sold, or told she was being sold a whole of 
life policy  one that would pay out on death regardless of when Mrs G died. And, I cant see 
it was a type of policy that Royal London was offering when she called. The only policies it 
offered her were term assurance  they all wouldve paid out on death had Mrs G passed 
away during the term. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs G was given a policy 
different to what shed selected. So, I dont think Royal London has done anything wrong in 
this case and I wont be asking it to refund Mrs Gs premiums. I understand Mrs G has now 
cancelled her policy, but during the time it was in place, it wouldve paid out the benefit had 
she passed away (subject to the terms).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman