DRN-3902904
The complaint
Mr G complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
wont pay his claim for weather/storm damage to his house and outbuildings. Mr G is a 
vulnerable person and is represented by a support worker. 
What happened
In 2010 Mr G reported a claim for damage to the gable wall of his house. NFU sent out loss 
adjusters who concluded that the damage was likely due to ongoing frost action during the 
winter period. As frost damage and damage that occurs gradually were excluded under 
Mr Gs policy, it was explained to Mr G that NFU couldnt help on that occasion. 
In 2011 Mr G made a further claim alleging storm damage to his house and several 
outbuildings which comprised two barns, a piggery/Nissen hut and two other Nissen huts. It 
appears that the claim wasnt pursued by Mr G at the time. The policy lapsed in 2012.
Mr G renewed his claim in 2017. He had instructed private surveyors, H, to look at the 
damage to his house. They reported in May 2017 that the damage was due to weathering 
action. NFU appointed loss adjusters (C) who reported in September 2017. They agreed 
with H concerning the damage to the house. Additionally they noted that some roof tiles had 
been dislodged but this could have occurred after the policy lapsed. With regard to the 
outbuildings, they said they were in a deteriorated condition consistent with age and lack of 
maintenance. They further said a barge board had been dislodged from the barn, again 
which could have occurred after the policy lapsed. NFU, relying on the report, advised Mr G 
it couldnt help any further.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service an ombudsman advised that due to the 
lapse of time we couldnt look at NFUs decision on the claim in 2010/2011. But NFUs 
decision to decline the claim in 2018 could be looked at.
Our investigators view was that, based on all the available evidence, the damage was not 
insured under any perils. She thought that NFUs decision to decline the claim was fair. 
Mr G didnt agree and made further comments as I shall set out below.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it clear that, in light of my ombudsman colleagues decision concerning our 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint, I will only be looking at NFUs decision to decline the 
claim in 2017/2018.
Mr G made claims relating to the damage to his house, specifically the gable end wall, and 
several outbuildings. Mr Gs surveyor, H, reported in May 2017 that the damage was related 
to weathering action, possibly exacerbated by poor construction. The surveyor didnt report 
on any of the outbuildings. 
NFU appointed C who, following a site visit, reported in September 2017. I have set out the 
conclusions in that report followed by Mr Gs comments, as follows:
gable end wall 
C agreed with Mr Gs surveyors that the deterioration in the wall was caused by weathering 
action, possibly exacerbated by poor construction.
Mr G states that the report that he had commissioned from H showed that the damage was 
due to the 84 mph wind. He further says that he had the bulge in the wall checked when he 
bought the property and he was advised that it was nothing to worry about due to the time 
that it had been there.
Hs report doesnt say that there was an 84 mph wind, it merely says that the damage was 
related to weathering action. It further said that unless remedial action is taken there is a 
real risk of collapse.
roof of house
C commented that a number of tiles had been dislodged which it would not be unreasonable 
to assume was a consequence of high winds at some particular point. However when that 
happened is open to speculation and could have occurred after the policy had lapsed in 
2012.
Mr G maintains this was discussed with the loss adjuster at the first visit when it was 
discussed that this was due to the storm damage. 
piggery
This comprised a World War 2 Nissen hut. The structure was in a deteriorated condition and 
there was no direct evidence of any damage related to a single storm event.
Mr G said the face of the piggery was constructed from brick, this blew in during the storm 
and that left the piggery open which tunnelled the wind into the piggery and it blew the 
corrugated tin sheets back and distorted them.
lofted barn
The claim related to a sliding door comprising wooden slats. A number of them had fallen 
away. They said this was due to aging/lack of maintenance.
Mr G says the sliding door was made of solid oak planks, 12 inches wide and five eighths of 
an inch thick. Mr G disputes that the damage was due to aging and says that it was due to 
storm damage
adjoining barn
a barge board had been dislodged. They observed this could be due to storm conditions but 
when this occurred was open to speculation.
Mr G said the barge board was dislodged due to storm damage. This fell down and 
damaged the fence.two Nissen huts
C said the problems with both buildings were entirely consistent with the ageing process and 
in their opinion the buildings had simply reached the end of their useful life and indeed did so 
some years previously. 
Mr G says the faces of the two barns were blown in and the one suffered further damage 
due to the storm.
Based on Cs conclusions NFU declined the claim. It said there was no insured peril (like 
storm) and the damage was likely to be due to weathering and/or general deterioration.
I should explain that home insurance policies generally cover specific perils like storm, fire, 
flood etc. But they dont cover general maintenance of the buildings and it is generally the 
policyholders responsibility to keep the insured buildings in a good state of repair.
Turning to the claim, Mr G says all of the damage was storm damage. When considering 
claims for storm damage we ask three questions. It is only if the answer to all three 
questions is yes that we would ask the Insurer to consider the claim. Those questions are:
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have     
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
It would have to be a specific identifiable storm, not just general bad weather. The problem 
in this case is that Mr G didnt pursue his claim when he said the damage occurred so its not 
going to be possible to say when or if a storm might have occurred to cause the damage. 
And as Mr G wasnt specific about the damage in 2011, its entirely possible that the damage 
to the barge board and roof tiles occurred after the policy lapsed in 2012. As the answer to 
the first question is most likely no, regrettably Im unable to say the claim should be 
covered under the storm peril.
Unfortunately I cant see that any other peril is likely to have caused the other damage in this 
case. NFU in 2010 had already pointed out that the frost or any cause which happens 
gradually are excluded under the policy. And these are common exclusions that apply to 
most household policies. So I think that NFU has acted reasonably in this case.
I understand Mr Gs views that all the above damage was storm damage and that proving 
that a storm happened in 2010 some seven years later would be difficult. But I reiterate that I 
cant look at what happened in 2010/11. The evidence from the investigations in 2017 
doesnt show that any of the damage was due to storm. Mr G or his representative havent 
shown us any evidence to counter those conclusions. As two experts have reported on the 
claims, I have no reason to doubt their conclusions.
Lastly I appreciate that Mr G is vulnerable. But I think NFU has acted sensitively in that 
regard. It has to act as it would with all its policyholders in Mr Gs position. I have no 
evidence to suggest that it hasnt done so in this case.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman