DRN-4037289
The complaint
Miss B complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) who partially-
declined her claim, under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a storm, Miss B contacted Lloyds to make a claim regarding damage to her home. 
The issue of this complaint relates to damage to her front door and some roof tiles. The 
other damage to various areas of her home were accepted by Lloyds. 
Lloyds sent a surveyor to assess the damage and on inspecting the door, he concluded in 
his report that the damage that related to a handle falling off the door and some missing 
moulding, were not storm related and were due to wear and tear. So, he advised Lloyds to 
decline this part of the claim. 
The surveyor also assessed the roof and during his assessment, he found that there was no 
evidence of damage to the ridge tiles on the main roof. He said that Miss B requested that 
the tiles be replaced as a precautionary measure. And that she had accepted that there was 
no damage to the ridge tiles. The surveyor advised Lloyds to decline this part of the claim as 
well, as there was no damage to the tiles in question. 
Miss B complained to Lloyds as she disputed what the surveyor had concluded. 
During the claims process, there were poor service issues in Lloyds progressing the claim 
and poor communication to Miss B. As a result, Lloyds offered total compensation of £800, 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
Miss B still remained unhappy with the partially declined claim and referred a complaint to 
our service, after having been given her referral rights from Lloyds. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately declined it. He said that 
there was evidence of wear and tear to the door and that there was no damage to the ridge 
tiles. As a result, he agreed that Lloyds were fair to partially decline her claim. He also said 
that the level of compensation offered for the poor service was reasonable. 
Lloyds accepted the view. Miss B did not. She provided further evidence to show that her 
door was insecure and that the damage had been caused by the storm. She also said that 
the damage to the roof was storm related given the strong winds. So, she asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Miss B, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether Lloyds fairly partially declined the claim 
regarding the roof tiles (as it said they were undamaged). And the front door, under the 
policy exclusion of wear and tear.  
Our approach when assessing complaints where storms are said to be the cause of the 
damage, is that we take into consideration three questions, when determining whether an 
event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Both parties agree that there were storm conditions around the time of the event, namely 
strong winds. So, the first answer to the first question is yes.  
Turning to the second question, is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes. The storm was described as strong winds. And the damage was to some roof tiles 
as well as a front door handle and some missing moulding to that door. 
Miss B said that due to the strong winds this caused the handle to fall. She also said that 
there was no other protection such as a porch or trees that wouldve prevented the winds 
from causing the damage. She also said that there was damage to the ridge tiles on the roof 
and this was caused by the storm. 
Miss B was asked to provide any further evidence to support her comments. This evidence 
could have been expert evidence  but none was provided. She did supply further photos of 
the front door, its hinges and the handle that came off it. As well as images of the ridge tiles. 
I have reviewed all the images Miss B sent, in support of this complaint. 
Lloyds sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor wrote a report that can be 
considered to be expert evidence. In addition, Lloyds provided further evidence from a senior 
surveyor, that specifically dealt with the ridge tiles and the front door. The conclusion of the 
reports was that neither damage to the ridge tiles or the front door was attributable to the 
storm. Specifically, there was no damage to the ridge tiles (which Lloyds said Miss B agreed 
with) and the damage to the front door was due to wear and tear. Which is excluded from 
cover under the policy. 
Dealing with the front door first. Miss B sent several photos of the front door including the 
hinges as well as the handle that she said was blown off by the wind. She said that this has 
now caused her door to be insecure. 
Lloyds said that the front door was sheltered by trees and a porch. The handle was missing, 
but the central spindle was still in place. It said that the winds could not have unscrewed the 
retaining bolt and slipped the handle off. If the door had been slammed so hard that it 
caused the handle to fall off and one piece of moulding to come off, then further damage 
would be seen, but there was none. They said the damage was due to wear and tear and 
not the storm.I have reviewed the photos that Miss B had provided. And having looked at the images, I can 
see that there appears to be a porch as well as vegetation around the porch. Further, the 
photos of the handle and the bolt that it had been attached too, appear to show some 
erosion. So, Im persuaded that the damage was due to wear and tear. And Ill explain why. 
From the images before me, there are obvious signs of rust, around the hole where the bolt 
was. I can also see that there is heavy discolouration on the handle and door plate that it 
had been on. 
In addition, Miss B said that she had on the day of the storm put the latch on the door to 
prevent it from shutting on her and locking her out. I wouldve expected to see damage to the 
internal door frame or architrave, given that Miss B explained that the door would have had 
to have smashed against it multiple times, with considerable force to have resulted in the 
handle and moulding falling off it. But I didnt see any damage. 
Also, as I mentioned, there was a porch and vegetation surrounding the door. And I think is 
more likely than not, that this wouldve provided some protection from the elements. 
Consequently, Im satisfied that the damage to the door was not due to the storm, and Im 
persuaded by Lloyds expert who concluded that wear and tear was the main cause of the 
damage. 
I have next looked at the ridge tiles on the roof. I have reviewed the surveyors report and it 
states that Miss B was told that there was no damage to these specific roof tiles. Im told that 
Miss B agreed that there was no damage to those tiles. 
The purpose of insurance is to protect policyholders from insured perils, it is not for 
maintenance issues. Lloyds said that on inspection of the tiles, they had not become 
dislodged, and they suffered no damage. It also said that storm force winds would not be 
able to lift ridge tiles, damage sound mortar underneath and then replace those tiles in the 
exact same position. So, it was unable to allow for the replacement of the tiles as the 
precaution that Miss B wanted. 
Miss B hasnt provided me with any expert evidence that could refute what Lloyds has said 
regarding the ridge tiles. Having looked at the area, Im not persuaded that there was 
damage caused to the tiles at all. Consequently, I think Lloyds were fair to decline this part of 
the claim as well. 
Taking all of the evidence into consideration, I think the answer to question two is no. Which 
means that Lloyds were fair in partially declining Miss Bs claim. 
Finally, I have considered the amount of compensation that Lloyds offered. I can see that the 
compensation was offered on the basis of the poor service issues namely poor 
communication and progressing the claim in a timely manner. 
Im happy to see that Lloyds recognised its errors. And I do think that it was fair and 
reasonable for it to offer a total of £800 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. So, I 
wont be asking it to increase its offer further. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Miss B will be, there 
was evidence of wear and tear and as this was a policy exclusion, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
fairly partially declined her claim under the policy terms and conditions. I also think that the 
amount of compensation offered was fair. Accordingly, I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman