DRN-3863724
The complaint
Ms Q complains Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly registered defaults on her credit file.
What happened
Ms Q holds two credit cards with Capital One which were approved in 2016 and 2017. 
During the COVID-19 pandemic Capital One agreed to a number of payment holidays on 
Ms Qs accounts. In August 2021 Ms Q asked Capital One for some further assistance due 
to her financial situation. Ms Q says Capital One agreed to give her some breathing space 
following this request; but then defaulted her accounts in February 2022. 
Ms Q complained to Capital One in August 2022 when she became aware of the defaults. 
She said she was told she didnt need to make payments to her accounts while she was in 
the period of breathing space; and that her credit file wouldnt be adversely affect. She said 
the defaults were unfairly applied and they should be removed from her credit file.
Capital One issued two final responses in August 2022. Its latest response said there hadnt 
been an error in defaulting the accounts; or registering the defaults with credit reference 
agencies. But it said it could have provided information during a phone call in December 
2021 about the default process; and it acknowledged its initial complaint handling and final 
response hadnt covered all of Ms Qs concerns about both credit card accounts. It paid 
Ms Q £50 compensation for these failings. 
Ms Q didnt accept Capital Ones findings and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed the details and didnt uphold the complaint. He said, based on the 
evidence he had, he considered Capital One had reasonably made Ms Q aware that her 
accounts would be defaulted if she didnt maintain her repayments. So, he didnt agree that 
Capital One had made an error.
Ms Q didnt agree. In summary, she maintained her position that she had been told she 
didnt need to make payments while she was in a period of breathing space; and that her 
credit file wouldnt be adversely impacted. She also said Capital One has admitted to making 
mistakes which is why it upheld her complaint in part. 
Ms Q asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Ms Q.
Ms Q has said she told Capital One in August 2021 that she was in financial difficulties, and 
it agreed to give her a period of breathing space. She says she was led to believe she didnt 
need to maintain monthly payments during this time and that her credit file wouldnt be 
adversely affected. 
While I dont doubt Ms Qs recollections of the events, Capital One has provided our service 
with documentary evidence from the time. This includes a copy of the phone call from 
August 2021 and the correspondence it sent in the lead up to the default being registered. 
During the call Capital One told Ms Q that it could agree to give her a period of breathing 
space as shed said she wasnt working and would struggle to maintain her repayments. The 
representative explained that the breathing space would stop interest and fees being added 
to the accounts; and stop collection phone calls and correspondence. They went on to say 
that the breathing space wouldnt be reported to credit reference agencies; but any missed 
payments would be reported. The representative said if Ms Q made no payments 
consecutively across the months, then the account could be restricted or defaulted; but Ms Q 
would be given notice of this before it happened.
Ive seen the emails sent to Ms Q in August 2021 following the phone call. They confirm that 
while Ms Q was being given a period of breathing space and interest, fees and collections 
activities would be suppressed; minimum payments would still be due, and Ms Q should pay 
what is affordable to her. The emails also confirmed that important messages would still be 
sent, including the risk of the accounts being defaulted; and that if these were received 
during the period of breathing space they do still apply. And, while the period of breathing 
space wouldnt be reported to credit reference agencies, the email confirms other activities, 
like late payments, would still be reported. 
Capital One then sent Notice of Sums in Arrears letters in September and November 2021, 
and January 2022 explaining that Ms Q had missed payments and her accounts were now in 
arrears. These letters requested Ms Q contact it and look to bring her accounts back in line. 
Finally, in January 2022, Capital One sent Notice of Default letters, giving Ms Q 28 days 
notice of its intention to default the accounts, providing her with time to discuss the matter 
with it and look to bring the accounts back in line. 
Ms Q has said she didnt receive the letters Capital One has provided this service; and shes 
referenced possible postal issues due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Again, while I dont doubt 
Ms Qs testimony here, my role is to consider if Capital One reasonably made Ms Q aware of 
the arrears and that non-payment during the period of breathing space would lead to the 
accounts being defaulted. 
The letters are all correctly addressed to Ms Q at the address she currently resides at. 
Capital One has provided no information to suggest the letters were returned undeliverable. 
Ms Q has said she had some issues with her post but hasnt provided any evidence of this. 
And Im aware she received the Notice of Sums in Arrears letters sent in November 2021 as 
she contacted Capital One in December 2021 after receiving them.
So, Im satisfied, on balance, that the letters were sent and Capital One took reasonable 
steps in line with its regulatory obligations to make Ms Q aware of the arrears on her 
accounts; and that it intended to default them within 28 days of the Notice of Default letters 
sent in January 2022, unless she brought the accounts up to date.
I note that Capital One has already made a payment of £50 to Ms Q to reflect failings it has 
identified within its complaint handling process, and information it could have provided during 
a phone call in December 2021. Having reviewed Capital Ones amount of compensation, I 
consider the £50 already paid to Ms Q to be fair and reasonable in compensating her for the 
distress and inconvenience of its failings. 
I say this because I think Capital Ones initial handling and response to Ms Qs complaint 
was missing details which didnt address her concerns in full; and it didnt follow up on a 
promise of a call back. But, it did go on to issue a further final response within a relatively 
short period of time, minimising any potential impact on Ms Q. 
While I agree Capital One could have made Ms Q aware during a phone call in December 
2021 that the accounts could be defaulted if she failed to make payments, I have to 
acknowledge that it had already provided Ms Q with this information on multiple occasions; 
during the phone call in August 2021, the follow up emails in August 2021, and the Notice of 
Sums in Arrears letters sent in September and November 2021. So, I consider Ms Q was 
already reasonably on notice of this potential action if she failed to make payments to the 
accounts. And Capital One went on to issue further Notice of Sums in Arrears letters in 
January 2022 as well as the Notice of Default letters in January 2022, providing further 
confirmation of the process. 
Taking all the above into account, I dont consider Capital One made an error in defaulting 
the accounts or registering the defaults with credit reference agencies; and I consider its 
payment of £50 fairly reflects the failings in its complaint handling. It therefore follows Im not 
recommending Capital One needs to take any further action in resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
Capital One (Europe) plc has already made an offer and paid £50 to settle this complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. As such, Capital one (Europe) plc doesnt 
need to do anything further in resolution of Ms Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman