DRN-3798793
The complaint
B, a limited company, has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
turned down its business interruption insurance claim after its business was affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
Mrs B, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
B offers book-keeping services on-site and off-site to clients. It made a claim to Hiscox for its 
business interruption losses after its business was closed following three different lockdown 
restrictions. Hiscox declined the claim. It said Bs losses werent covered by the policy 
wording.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) pursued a business interruption insurance test 
case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings, including different 
types of Hiscox policies, and how they should respond to the pandemic. The Supreme Court 
handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
In February 2021 Hiscox said it had reviewed Bs claim in light of the judgment but 
maintained that cover didnt apply in its circumstances. It said Bs losses werent covered 
under the policy because government regulations hadnt prevented B from using its 
premises and the cover under the Non-Damage Denial of Access clause (NDDA) didnt 
apply in the circumstances of Bs claim.
B brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She didnt think Bs claim was covered by the policy and she also thought there had 
been no unreasonable delay on the part of Hiscox in dealing with the claim. In response to 
that Mrs B pointed out that B has a shared office and also works from client sites which were 
closed during the lockdowns.
As B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Bs business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Hiscox has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim. 
The policy covers business interruption caused by:
 your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
during the period of insurance following:

an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak of 
which must be notified to the local authority.
So, for this term to provide cover, the interruption to Bs business would need to be due 
to its inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority following an occurrence of a notifiable human disease. The insured premises 
were the premises where the business was based as opposed to its clients premises at 
which it used to work from time to time.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Covid-19 is a notifiable human infectious or 
contagious disease.
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 set out 
which businesses were required to close for the emergency period. Significantly 
businesses like accountants and bookkeepers were not on the list. So, I dont think B 
was required to close its business premises due to these regulations. 
These regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would have likely had an 
impact on businesses that were able to remain open. For example, the restrictions on 
movement that required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But it 
was a reasonable excuse for someone to travel to work where it was not reasonably 
practical for that person to work from home.
I dont think that the restrictions imposed always had to have the force of law. But I do 
consider that there must have been a mandatory instruction that was given by a public 
authority. I dont think these regulations imposed a restriction on Bs business and Im not 
aware of any other restriction.
The wording of Bs policy was considered as part of the FCA test case. The Supreme 
Court said at paragraph 129:
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 do not cover all business interruption due to 
restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of a notifiable 
disease. They apply only where the interruption is caused by the policyholders inability 
to use the business premises due to such restrictions.
The Supreme Court went on to say, at paragraph 136 of the judgment:  an inability of use 
has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in use. The court did also make it 
clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose out of an inability to 
use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. But I dont consider B has 
shown it was unable to use its business for a discrete part of its business. It remained an 
option for B to work from its premises if it wasnt reasonably practical for its staff to work from 
where they lived.
Whilst I do not doubt that B would have suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its 
business, the policy requires that there be an inability to use its business premises. Im not 
persuaded that this was the case. As such, I dont think Hiscox treated B unfairly in declining 
its claim under this clause.There is no cover under the policy for an outbreak of a notifiable human disease that 
prevented B from working at its clients premises.
B was also covered for NDDA. That was defined in the policy as follows:
an incident during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of the insured 
premises which results in a denial of or hindrance in access to the insured premises, 
imposed by any civil or other statutory authority or by order of the government or any public 
authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours.
The court of the first instance in the test case considered clauses such as this. I appreciate 
that an officer or employee of B had Covid-19 at one stage. The judgment from that court 
says at paragraphs 404 - 405 about the need for an incident:
this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event, something which 
happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular way...
an incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse of language 
both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA clause to describe the pandemic 
as an incident let alone an incident occurring within a one mile radius of the insured 
premises.
It may amount to a state of affairs but it is too geographically dispersed, variegated, 
prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incidentin any event it is a misnomer to 
describe the presence of someone in the radius with the disease as an incident for the 
purposes of the clause.
 It went on to explain why a pandemic affecting the entire UK couldnt be held to be an 
incident within a narrow radius of the insured premises, saying at paragraph 406:
We consider that this is a narrow, localised cover intended to insure events or incidents 
which occur within the one mile radius.
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin 
and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) but I dont believe it would 
be. Thats because the judge said at para 516: 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording  as the 
telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment makes clear. Its 
significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion at [404] that In our 
judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on the requirement for an 
incident.
As part of considering this complaint Im obliged to take into account relevant case law. I see 
no reason in this case to depart from the findings of these judgments. As such, I dont think 
this part of the policy provides cover for Bs claim. 
Having considered the rest of the policy I dont think there is any area of cover that means 
Hiscox should have met Bs claim.
Lastly, Ive looked at how Hiscox handled the claim. I can see that a claim was first 
registered in August 2020. Three days later Hiscox told B that it didnt think the claim was 
covered by the policy but it would await the outcome of the test case before making a final 
decision. About one month after the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case, Hiscox told B it had reassessed the claim and it wasnt changing its decision to decline the claim. 
Im not persuaded that there was any unreasonable delay on the part of Hiscox.
B has also complained about the way that Hiscox handled its complaint. As our investigator 
has explained, complaints handling isnt an activity which falls within the jurisdiction of this 
service. So Im not able to consider that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman