DRN-3552214
The complaint
Miss A complained because Monzo Bank Limited refused to refund her for a transaction 
which she said she didnt authorise.
What happened
On 21 September 2021, Miss A rang Monzo. She said shed had a notification on her phone 
that shed spent £130.96 at a clothing retailer. Miss A said she immediately checked whether 
she had her debit card, and she didnt. She rang Monzo to report the transaction as 
fraudulent.
Monzo asked Miss A some questions, including whether she had her PIN noted or saved 
anywhere, and whether anyone else knew her PIN. Miss A said no.
Monzo refused Miss As request for a refund. It said this was based on the fact that as shed 
said no-one else knew her PIN, it wasnt possible for the transaction to have been authorised 
by anyone else. Miss A complained, but Monzo didnt agree. 
Miss A wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said shed told Monzo that shed 
just lost her job, so the loss of this money was causing her anxiety and stress.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss As complaint. She said that if an unknown third party 
had made the transaction, theyd have had to obtain Miss As card and find out her PIN, and 
there was no clear way anyone could have done this. So she thought it was more likely than 
not that Miss A had authorised the disputed transaction herself.
Miss A didnt agree. She said it was unfair to say shed authorised a transaction she hadnt. 
She said she kept her PIN on the Notes app on her phone, so perhaps someone had seen 
the PIN and used her card that way. She said it was causing her emotional stress, and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss A lost her job and is under stress. But I take my decision on the 
basis of the facts of the case, and the Regulations which govern disputed transactions. For 
Miss As transaction, these are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the 
payment service provider (here, Monzo) must show the transaction was authenticated. 
Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen evidence that Miss As genuine card with its 
chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed payments were authenticated. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to go on to look at whether the card holder 
authorised the payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise 
the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say 
that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain 
circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent 
that it can be termed gross negligence.
So Ive looked at the circumstances here. Theres no clear way in which Miss As card and 
PIN could have been obtained. If her card had been lost or stolen when shed bought petrol 
the day before, any fraudster would have had to obtain Miss As PIN. After the investigators 
view, Miss A told us that her PIN was recorded on the Notes app on her phone. But shed 
previously told Monzo that she didnt have it recorded anywhere. And she also hasnt told 
Monzo or us that her phone was lost or stolen. So I cant see that this is a possible way for 
any third party to have obtained her PIN. 
Nor is it likely that a fraudster who might have obtained Miss As card could have guessed 
the PIN. There are 10,000 possible combinations of a four digit number. And the computer 
records show there were no failed attempts to enter the PIN  it was entered correctly first 
time.
Its also unlikely that anyone who might have obtained Miss As card at the petrol station the 
day before, and somehow her correct PIN, would have waited until the next morning before 
carrying out the transaction. Nor is it likely theyd have stopped after one transaction, when 
there was still money in Miss As account. This isnt the normal pattern for what a fraudster 
would do, as they generally maximise their gains as quickly as possible.
So I think its unlikely that an unknown fraudster carried out the disputed transaction. Ive 
considered whether someone might have made it with Miss As consent. But she said she 
hadnt shared her card or PIN, and anyway if she had done, this would have been against 
the terms and conditions of the account. So Monzo still wouldnt have had to refund her.
Taking these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Miss A authorised 
the transaction herself. So I dont require Monzo to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman