DRN-3952438
The complaint
Mr R complained about Zurich Insurance PLC. He isnt happy about the courtesy car he was 
offered following a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R had to make a claim under his motor insurance policy after his catalytic converter was 
stolen from his car. When the car went in for repair he was offered a manual courtesy car 
while his was being repaired. But Mr R asked for an automatic car as he was unable to drive 
a manual. By the time Zurich looked into this properly for Mr R his car was repaired and 
returned. 
When Mr R complained to Zurich about this it apologised for any inconvenience caused and 
offered £250 by way of compensation. But Mr R remained unhappy, so he complained to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. Although she sympathised with the position Mr 
R found himself she thought that Zurichs offer of £250 compensation for the period Mr R 
was without a vehicle was fair. 
As Mr R didnt agree, maintaining that the compensation level should be higher and that he 
hadnt been treated fairly, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr R faced a difficult position after his car went in for repair and he wasnt 
given an automatic vehicle as a courtesy car when he should have been. But I agree that 
Zurichs offer of compensation seems fair and it has offered to pay any additional costs Mr R 
has incurred, subject to reasonable proof, which seems fair. 
It can be very inconvenient when a car goes in for repair following a claim. And repairing 
garages often dont have courtesy cars immediately to hand and there can be a shortage. In 
this instance it was able to offer a manual vehicle relatively quickly but there was a delay 
when it became clear that Mr R needed an automatic vehicle. It would appear that the 
repairing garage wasnt aware that Mr R was a blue badge holder and needed an automatic 
car initially.
As Ive outlined sourcing courtesy cars can be difficult and often customers have to make do 
without one which isnt ideal. But the availability of automatic courtesy cars is even scarcer 
and Im sure it impacted things here.
When someone is without their vehicle we ordinarily look to pay loss of use in line with the 
courts of £10 a day by way of compensation. And Zurich has looked to pay more than this 
which seems fair in the particular circumstances of this case. And customers dont always 
use their car every day so insurers may pay less in line with the customers use of their car. 
Given this, and the general inconvenience that the insurance claim was always going to 
cause Mr R, I think Zurichs offer of more than the usual loss of use rate as compensation 
(by over £100) seems fair. And if Mr R did incur any additional costs Zurich will consider 
these as well, although I understand Mr R was able to rely on family and friends. So, 
although I accept that Zurich couldve acted quicker and tried to ensure Mr R had access to 
an automatic car, as opposed to the manual he was given, I think its steps to try and put 
things right after its error seem fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Zurich Insurance PLCs offer of £250 
compensation feels fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman