DRN-3397776
The complaint
Mr A complains about that quality of the fitting of a new kitchen and bathroom at his home. 
Because the work was funded by a loan from Shawbrook Bank Limited and arranged by the 
supplier, he says that Shawbrook is liable to put things right.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr A arranged for a supplier, which Ill call K, to fit a new bathroom and 
kitchen at a cost of just under £18,000. That included the supply of some appliances, 
cupboards, plumbing and electrical work, plastering and flooring.
The documents produced at the time included plans and a full breakdown of the price for the 
kitchen work. No separate price was provided for the bathroom.
Mr A was not entirely happy with the work that was done and, early in December 2019, he 
contacted K to explain the issues he had. They included the fitting of the cooker, the refitting 
of a window surround and a crack in the ceiling plaster. K said it would carry out remedial 
work.
Later in December 2019 Mr A contacted Shawbrook to say that K had not been able to 
complete the remedial work to his satisfaction. He said that the plastering was of a poor 
standard, holes had been drilled in the wall board and could not be filled, and that the finish 
around the kitchen window and bathroom door was not acceptable. There were also issues 
with noise from the pipes and the size of the splash-backs in the kitchen; the issue with the 
window had not been resolved.
Mr A was not happy with Shawbrooks response and referred the matter to this service. In 
the meantime, it appears that K sought to address some of the outstanding issues. In 
October 2020 K attended Mr As property to review what needed to done. That included 
(according to Ks own report) the replacement of shower boards, re-trimming the window, 
refitting the shower screen, and filling a gap between the bathroom door and trim. Mr A 
declined to sign the report and says that the work has never been completed.
In January 2021 our investigator issued a preliminary assessment of Mr As complaint. She
identified three issues which had not been resolved and on which she felt she needed to
comment. They were:
K said that Mr A had signed a form indicating that the work had been carried out to his 
satisfaction. He said that was not the case.
The kitchen window surround had not been fitted properly.
There were holes in the bathroom wall which had not been properly filled.
On the first point, the investigator did not think this was a matter for Shawbrook to address.
The investigator noted that the plans had indicated that the kitchen window reveal needed to 
be removed. She thought too that photos from Mr A showed that it had not been refitted with 
reasonable care and skill. This ought to rectified.
Mr A said that K had wrongly sized the radiator. It had drilled holes for the wrong size and, 
because the holes were in wall-board (rather than, say, plaster), it was not possible to fill 
them without the holes being visible. K said that Mr A had asked for the radiator size to be 
changed after the holes had been drilled, so it was not responsible for the holes being in the 
wrong place and, therefore, visible. On this point, the investigator accepted what Mr A had 
said and recommended that further remedial work be carried out.
Shawbrook accepted the investigators view and said that K had agreed to deal with the two 
remedial issues which the investigator had identified. It said too that it would remove missed 
payment markers on Mr As file.
Mr A questioned whether Ks agreement extended to matters which it had already agreed to 
rectify. It indicated too that Shawbrook had told him that the loan agreement had been 
cancelled because payments had not been made. He questioned too what work had been 
agreed with Shawbrook.
Mr A has more recently provided a list of the work that he says still needs to be rectified. He 
listed the following matters:
kitchen window finish;
missing kitchen splashback;
splashback coming off the wall;
shower wall not sealed;
shower enclosure not sealed;
shower wall finish around bathroom door;
shower wall trim; and
holes because of the radiator issue.
Because it had not been possible to resolve these issues, the case was passed to me
for further consideration, and I issued a provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I explained that the effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in this case is that, if Mr A has a valid claim for breach of contract against K, he has 
a like claim against Shawbrook. 
The contract with K was for the supply and installation of both the kitchen and the bathroom. 
Mr A did not allege that the goods were substandard but did say that the work had not been 
carried out with reasonable care and skill, as it should have been. 
K had accepted in October 2020 that some remedial work was needed. That was because 
work had not been done with reasonable care and skill. I concluded that Shawbrook was 
liable in the same way as K to ensure that the work was carried out. 
As far as the window was concerned, I noted that the original specification for the work did 
not say how the window surround was to be finished after fitting of the splashback. I thought 
that K had done enough to meet its obligations under the contract.
The poorly filled holes in the bathroom resulted from a different sized radiator being fitted 
from that initially specified. I was not persuaded that was necessary and so did not 
recommend any award in respect of that. I indicated that I would review the position if I 
received further evidence about the size of radiator fitted compared with that indicated on the 
plans. I noted that it appeared that work was still required to fulfil Ks contractual obligations. 
Shawbrook was not necessarily in a position to ensure the work was done, so I indicated 
that it could engage someone to complete the work or reimburse Mr A if he engaged 
someone else to do it. 
I emphasised too that I had not taken Ks claim that Mr A had signed a confirmation that the 
work had completed to his satisfaction as evidence that it had. I noted however that it was 
unlikely Shawbrook would have released funds to K without it, and that it was unlikely any 
work would have carried out without funds. 
In response to my provisional decision, Shawbrook reiterated its argument that the finishing 
of the kitchen window had not been financed by the loan and that it was not therefore 
responsible for it. 
Mr A too repeated some of the points he had already made. He indicated too that he would 
seek estimates for remedial work, although it appears he has not been able to do so.
He explained however that K had chosen the size of radiator for the bathroom, but that it had 
been too big and had to be replaced with a smaller one. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is agreed that the work was not of satisfactory quality, but some matters remain in dispute. 
They are: the extent to which remedial work has been completed (or completed to a 
satisfactory standard); responsibility for the window trim; and the holes left as a result of the 
bathroom radiator being changed. 
Ks inspection report of 13 October 2020 included a list of items which K agreed needed to 
be completed. And on page 2, above, I listed further items which Mr A said needed to be 
rectified. There is some overlap, but I will comment on the two items which are in dispute.
I agree with Shawbrook that the kitchen window finish was not included in the original 
contract. That is, K did not agree to finish the window in the way that Mr A later required. It 
may have agreed to do so as the work progressed, but I do not think I can fairly say that was 
financed by the loan. It follows that Shawbrook has no liability for the standard of the work on 
that item  and I make no comment on it. 
Mr A says, and I accept, that K initially specified the size of radiator needed, but that it did 
not fit in the space available without being an obstruction. Since specifying goods should 
have been done with reasonable care and skill, I think Shawbrook should compensate Mr A 
for the consequence of the error  the holes in Mr As wall. Putting things right
Mr As reasonable expectation here is to ensure that the work is completed to a satisfactory 
standard in line with the contract. But I think it is worth noting that Shawbrook is not really in 
a position to achieve that outcome directly. Either K must do so, or Mr A must engage 
someone else to do the work. Shawbrook can encourage Mr A and K to agree what work is 
needed and make arrangements to have it completed, but in my view it has done that  with 
only limited success. 
I have therefore considered whether I am in a position to make an award which will 
compensate Mr A for the costs of putting things right  in effect, to make an award of the 
amount which it will cost Mr A to employ builders to do the work needed. Whilst he has said 
he has been given a quote of over £7,000 for remedial work, there is no breakdown of what 
that covers, so I do not think I can fairly make an award in that amount. It is unfortunate that 
Mr A has not been able to provide a detailed estimate for the work. I do not criticise him for 
that; if he has not received a quote despite requesting one, there is little he can do. 
In my view, therefore, Shawbrook should indemnify Mr A for the reasonable costs of 
remedial work, including but not limited to that set out in Ks report of 13 October 2020  to 
the extent that work has not been completed. It can do that by reimbursing him or against at 
least two estimates. Any invoice or estimate should include an itemised breakdown of the 
work required. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, Shawbrook does not need to indemnify Mr A in respect of 
any further work needed to the kitchen window. 
If, as it appears may be the case, it is not possible to fill the holes in the bathroom wall in a 
satisfactory manner, Shawbrook should pay Mr A £200 in respect of that item.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Shawbrook Bank Limited should indemnify Mr A in the manner set 
out under the heading Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman