DRN-1933950
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) mistakenly led him to 
believe he had an additional pension plan worth around £14,300.
What happened
Mr H had several pension plans with Aviva. Aviva took some of these over from the original 
plan providers. Mr H called Aviva on 17 April 2018 to clarify the pension plans he held. He 
was told his total plan value was around £48,000.
Mr H called Aviva on 4 July 2019. He had a meeting with a pension adviser from another 
company that afternoon and wanted to clarify things in advance of that meeting. He was 
told he had a plan with 4 accounts under it, valued at around £50,700.  Aviva also told    
Mr H about another plan that was valued at £14,300. The policy numbers and plan values 
were emailed to him that day. Mr H also updated his address as there was one digit wrong 
in his postcode. Aviva then posted a retirement options pack to Mr H for the plans.
On a call on 12 July 2019, Mr H explained to Aviva he had received a retirement options 
pack in the name of a third party, whose first name was different from his. Aviva said it 
would investigate what had happened and asked Mr H to destroy the correspondence.
Mr H raised a complaint on 25 July 2019 as he hadnt heard back from Aviva on whether 
the plan was his or not. Shortly after, Aviva explained to Mr H on the phone, that the plan 
valued at £14,300 didnt belong to him. Aviva apologised for making a mistake and told him 
the plan belonged to another policy holder. 
Mr H said he relied on the information he received from Aviva on 4 July 2019 about this 
additional plan value. He said on the back of this, he purchased a guitar for £1479.99 on 
5 July 2019.
Aviva apologised and offered Mr H £250 for the inconvenience caused. Aviva asked if 
Mr H was able to return the guitar and rectify the financial imbalance he said hed 
experienced. Mr H didnt return the guitar. Aviva didnt agree to compensate him for the 
cost of the guitar.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Mr H would like Aviva 
to compensate him fairly for its error, for the stress and inconvenience caused and to pay 
for the cost of his guitar.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint. He thought that Avivas offer of settlement 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line with what we would expect the 
business to pay Mr H for the trouble and upset he had undoubtedly been caused.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Hs complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and for much the same 
reasons. I am therefore not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Its not in dispute that Aviva made a mistake when it incorrectly told Mr H he had an 
additional pension plan valued at around £14,300, when he didnt. This service looks to put 
a person back in the position they wouldve been in, but for the error or omission caused by 
the business. Here its clear that the plan didnt belong to Mr H, so I cant fairly require 
Aviva to proceed on the basis that this money is now owed to Mr H, simply because of an 
administrative error. 
Mr H said he relied on the information in the email he received from Aviva on 4 July 2019 
and purchased a guitar on the 5 July 2019 based on that. He said he wouldnt have 
purchased the guitar, had he not have been misinformed and is now left financially 
imbalanced.
Prior to being misinformed, Mr H received annual pension statements from Aviva and in 
April 2018 was told his total pension fund value was around £48,000. The email sent on 4 
July 2019 to Mr H stated only a plan value and policy number for the additional plan. I cant 
see that Mr H had been given incorrect information about this plan before. This was 
therefore new information, and Mr H said he wanted the information to discuss his 
retirement options with an adviser that same afternoon.
It seems Mr H became aware around 12 July that there was a problem with the name on 
the additional policy. By then hed ordered the guitar, but it wasnt going to be delivered 
(and was not delivered) until the end of August 2019. Further, the suppliers returns policy, 
I understand, allowed for returns. Mr H didnt cancel the purchase or return the guitar. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to cover the cost of 
the guitar in these circumstances. Mr H may have relied on the information he was given in 
the email. I dont feel I need to comment on whether that was a reasonable thing to do, 
given what Mr H had been told about his pensions before. But, in any event, as I see it 
Mr H was not financially imbalanced as a result of Avivas mistake. It was open to him to 
either cancel the order before the guitar was delivered or return the guitar. Had he done so, 
he wouldve been no worse off financially and therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to ask Aviva to put Mr H in a more favourable position than he wouldve otherwise been 
because of its administrative mistake. I dont think Mr H suffered any financial loss as a 
result of Avivas actions.
Clearly, however, Avivas actions have caused Mr H some trouble, upset and 
disappointment. For a short while, he thought he had more in his pension pot than he had. 
He also wouldve had to take steps to undo the purchase of the guitar, to not be out of 
pocket. However, like our investigator, I consider that Avivas offer of £250 compensation is 
fair and reasonable to compensate him for his non financial loss in the circumstances, and 
in line with other orders made by this service. 
Taking all of this into account, I therefore do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and make no 
further award. Ill allow him to decide whether he now wishes to accept Avivas offer of 
£250 compensation, if he has not already done so.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman