DRN-3685259
The complaint
Mr A says Phoenix Life Limited provided incorrect and contradictory information about
whether a minimum guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) applied to his pension policy and if he
had to take financial advice if he wanted to transfer. Mr A says that delayed the transfer of
the policy to another provider and caused him a financial loss.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 17 August 2022. Ive repeated here what I said about the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings. 
Mr As pension was set up in 1988 with a single contribution. The policy comprised non
protected rights (NPR) and former protected rights (PR). The NPR element had a retirement
date (NRD) in July 2020. The NRD for the PR element was in July 2030.
Phoenix Life contacted policy holders in September 2008 regarding a proposal to make
changes to with-profit pensions. Approval of the High Court was needed and this was
obtained. Mr As policy was affected. Essentially Mr A gave up the GAR in return for an
enhancement to his fund value and a change to the investment mix.
Mr As policy was invested in a with-profits fund that guarantees to pay a minimum cash
amount (guaranteed basic sum) at the NRD.
In January 2020 Mr A requested a retirement pack. Phoenix Life said it would be issued
about ten weeks prior to Mr As NRD. Mr A made further enquiries. He wasnt happy with
the responses he received which led to him making a complaint on 31 July 2010. Ive
summarised the main points.
Annual statements issued after the changes indicated that a GAR continued to apply
to the former PR element. The 2014 statement was an example.
Phoenix Lifes letter dated 29 July 2019 said the 2018 statement had incorrectly
stated that a GAR applied to the full policy value but that was incorrect and would
only apply to part of the policy.
Phoenix Lifes letter dated 30 January 2020 said the policy consisted of NPR and PR
and both had been included in the changes in 2010  the GARs had been removed.
Mr A queried that further. Phoenix Life wrote again on 5 March 2020 saying GARs no
longer applied to the policy as it was included in the changes which took effect from 1
January 2010.
A retirement pack was issued on 12 May 2020. Contrary to Phoenix Lifes letter of 5
March 2020, it referred to guaranteed annuity benefits and the requirement, if Mr A
wanted to transfer, to take independent financial advice. Mr As estimated pension
savings were £294,053.83, made up of former PR of £102,033 and NPR of
£192,020.83.
Mr A contacted Phoenix Life on 8 July 2020 to confirm again if GARs applied to the
former PR element of the policy and if he needed to take independent financial
advice. He was told that GARs didnt apply but, as there was a minimum guaranteed
sum (even though that was substantially below the current value of the policy), he did
need to take advice. He asked if he could transfer just the NPR element and was told
that transfer values for the policy as a whole and the two sections separately would
be requested.
Mr A then received Phoenix Lifes letter dated 22 June 2020 which said the
retirement pack had incorrectly indicated that GARs applied to the policy. And that as
the policy didnt contain GARs Mr A wasnt legally obliged to take advice. That
contradicted what hed been told over the telephone on 8 July 2020.
Phoenix Lifes letter of 16 July 2020 gave a transfer value for the whole policy, not
the PR and NPR separately. Those were: PR £91,543; NPR £172,069; total
£263,612.
Mr A complained that the inaccurate and conflicting information about any GAR
applying to the PR part of the policy and being told he needed to take independent
financial advice had caused a delay in initiating a transfer following receipt of the
retirement pack and a reduction of £30,441.83 in the transfer value. Mr A asked
Phoenix Life to confirm that it would honour the GAR applying to the PR element on
the SRD of 17 July 2030 and that he could transfer the NPR element (which Mr A
noted had been held on deposit since 17 July 2020) with a minimum transfer value
as quoted in the retirement pack (£192,020.83) to another provider.
Phoenix Life acknowledged Mr As complaint on 10 August 2020 and sent a further holding
letter on 3 September 2020 which said a final response would be issued within four weeks.
Phoenix Life sent its final response letter to Mr A on 1 October 2020.
In summary Phoenix Life said it was sorry it had failed to communicate with Mr A clearly and
accurately regarding his retirement options and had made errors when writing to him which
hed had to chase up.
In 2009/2010 Phoenix Life had removed the GARs and enhanced the policy (along with
many other policies with a retirement date post 2020). Former PR would always have been
written to age 65 for a male. As Mr A reaches 65 after 2020 the GAR wouldve been
removed. Phoenix Life could only settle the policy in line with what Mr A was contractually
entitled to and so it couldnt meet Mr As request for the GAR to be implemented. As to the
drop in the value caused by the delays, Phoenix Life would consider backdating the transfer
value. Mr A needed to move forward with any transfer request within the next two months.
By way of an apology for any trouble and upset Mr A had been caused, a payment of £200
was offered.
I understand that Mr A didnt receive Phoenix Lifes letter. As he hadnt heard further he sent
an email on 29 October 2020 chasing a response. He received an automatic
acknowledgement. But Phoenix Life says it didnt get Mr As email and no further action was
taken.
Mr A referred his complaint to us on 10 November 2020. He said, in addition to the
complaints hed raised, he was also complaining that Phoenix Life had failed to follow its
complaints procedure. If Phoenix Life wasnt willing to put things right for him as hed
proposed in his letter of 31 July 2020, he wanted compensation for the financial loss hed
incurred and for the time hed spent pursuing the matter.
Mr A later went ahead with a transfer. He contacted Phoenix Life in August 2021 and in
September 2021 he received the transfer documentation from Phoenix Life. But there were
delays and Mr A decided to abort that transfer and transfer to an alternative provider instead.
I think that transfer encountered some delays too before it was completed on 24 January
2022. The total transfer value paid was £296,705.26, made up of £174,319.26 for NPR and
£122,386 for the PR.One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint. He issued his view on 1 April 2022. In
summary he said:
In its final response Phoenix Life had offered to backdate the value if Mr A replied
within two months. The investigator accepted Mr A hadnt received the final response
 as shown by the email Mr A had sent, chasing a response. The investigator was
satisfied Phoenix Life had received that email  Mr A had received an automatic
acknowledgement. The investigator thought, if Mr A had received Phoenix Lifes
letter, hed have accepted the apology for the misleading information, the explanation
why the GAR no longer existed and the offer of the backdated valuations and
compensation.
But the investigator thought there some onus on Mr A to chase things up if hed
wanted to transfer. The NPR element had been disinvested at Mr As SRD and had
remained uninvested and the investigator didnt think Phoenix Life was responsible
for any further loss in value.
The investigator said it would be reasonable for the original May 2020 valuation of
£192,020.83 (for the NPR) to be honoured as per the final response letter. That
should be the transfer valuation rather than the lower sum of £174,319.26 which was
the sum finally transferred (for the NPR). He thought the transfer could reasonably
have been concluded within three months of the final response letter. Interest at 8%
pa simple should be added to the sum.
Mr A didnt agree with all the investigator had said. But to bring things to a conclusion, he
was prepared to accept the investigators proposal, provided payment was made within a
reasonable period.
But Phoenix Life didnt agree with the investigators view. Mr A had PR and NPR and the
backdated value at 12 May 2020 for both was £292,469.00 (£101,748 PR and £190,721.00
NPR). When Phoenix Life processed the claim on 24 January 2022 the total value was
higher - £296,705.26 (£174,319.26 NPR and £122,386.00 PR) so the higher value, rather
than the backdated value, was used as Mr A was getting overall a higher value. Phoenix Life
would be happy to backdate the value to 12 May 2020 but this would be the overall value for
both the PR and NPR - £292,469.00 which is less than what was transferred. Phoenix Life
didnt think Mr A wouldve taken the sums separately without the benefit of hindsight.
The investigator informed Mr A of Phoenix Lifes response. Mr A remained unhappy. He said
the total transfer value of £296,705 was made up of £174,319.26 for NPR which had been
uninvested and held on deposit since Mr As SRD in July 2020 and £122,386 for the former
PR which was the actual market value on the date of the transfer, those funds having
remained invested. The respective values in the retirement pack were £192,020.83 and
£102,033, totalling £294,053.83. Mr A didnt accept Phoenix Lifes position of only being
prepared to transfer the higher of the combined values at the actual transfer date as being
fair compensation for the errors and omissions. He said that provided no redress at all. He
asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said hed like the ombudsman to consider
compensation for the ongoing delay resulting from Phoenix Life choosing not to honour the
retirement valuation pack of the NPR on three separate occasions: when the transfer was
actually made on 25 January 2022; when Mr A invited Phoenix Life to reconsider its position
in his email of 31 January 2022; and when rejecting the investigators findings.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive read and considered everything. But Ive concentrated on what I see as the key points.
First, Im satisfied that Mr As policy didnt have a GAR. The GARs had been removed (from
both the NPR and PR elements of the policy) in 2009/2010 following the changes approved
by the High Court and an enhancement was paid to Mr As policy. The information Mr A
received at the time (which I havent seen) ought to have made the position clear to him.
But Phoenix Life subsequently provided inaccurate information about the GAR and which
suggested a GAR did still apply to the PR element of the policy. It seems that the annual
statements Mr A received continued to indicate a GAR would apply, at least to part of the
policy. For example, the annual plan update sent to Mr A on 26 September 2014 said, in the
summary section, that a GAR wasnt applicable to the NPR but was applicable to the PR.
The letter sent in July 2019 attempted to correct a mistake in the wording of the 2018
statement which had said Mr A had a GAR which applied to the full policy value. The letter
said that was incorrect and it applied only to part of the policy. But, as Ive said, the GAR had
been removed from both the NPR and PR elements of the policy.
Mr A was given further conflicting information during 2020 when he was enquiring about his
options. Phoenix Lifes letter dated 30 January 2020 said the policy consisted of NPR and
PR and both had been included in the changes in 2010  the GARs had been removed.
Phoenix Lifes letter of 5 March 2020 restated that by saying Guaranteed Pension Rates no
longer apply to this policy as the plan was included in our Scheme Changes with effect from
1 January 2010. So that appeared to clear things up.
But the retirement pack issued on 12 May 2020 referred to guaranteed annuity benefits and
the requirement, if Mr A wanted to transfer, to take independent financial advice. Again that
was corrected by Phoenix Lifes letter of 22 June 2020. But it seems that there was a delay
in Mr A receiving that letter. By then hed already spoken to Phoenix Life to query what the
retirement pack said and had been told that GARs didnt apply but there was a minimum
guaranteed sum (even though that was substantially below the current value of the policy)
and he did need to take advice. That prompted him to ask if he could transfer just the NPR
element and he was told that transfer values for the policy as a whole and the two sections
separately would be requested. I dont think separate transfer values were ever provided
(assuming that a partial transfer wouldve been possible).
But, even if incorrect information was given (more than once) and which might have led Mr A
to believe there was still a GAR attached to the PR element of his policy, if that had been
removed  and, as Ive said, it had  then that wouldnt reinstate the GAR and Mr As
entitlement to it. Mr A, in his letter of 31 July 2020, asked Phoenix Life to confirm that it
would honour the GAR applying to the PR element on the NRD in July 2030. But I dont think
theres any obligation on Phoenix Life to do that. As Ive said the GAR had been removed
from both sections of the policy that didnt change even if Phoenix Life later gave wrong
information indicating that a GAR did apply. So I dont think Mr As complaint should be
settled on the basis that there was a GAR in respect of the PR element of the policy.
That doesnt mean the errors made by Phoenix Life have no consequences. Where, as here,
a business accepts were shortcomings in how it dealt with things, well consider what the
consumers position wouldve been, had things gone as they shouldve done. Compensation
is aimed at putting the consumer in the position theyd be in, had the mistakes not occurred.
As well as looking at if the consumer suffered any financial loss, we also consider if distress
and inconvenience has been caused.
As far as the latter is concerned, I think its clear that Mr A did suffer trouble and upset. He
was, understandably, confused by the contradictory information, which he had to query andwhich caused him inconvenience. Phoenix Life has acknowledged that Mr As customer
experience was less than satisfactory and that Phoenix Life failed communicate clearly and
accurately.
Phoenix has apologised and has offered £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I bear in mind that Phoenix Life gave incorrect information over some years. Mr A has also
pointed to subsequent failures by Phoenix Life in handling his complaint. Phoenix Lifes final
response letter of 1 October 2020 was correctly addressed. I dont have any reason to think
that it wasnt dispatched by Phoenix Life in the usual way. So I dont think its Phoenix Lifes
fault if the letter unfortunately never reached Mr A. But Im satisfied that Phoenix Life did get
Mr As email of 29 October 2020 but then failed to reply. All in all I think a higher sum is
justified. I think £350 would be fair and reasonable.
Ive considered if Mr A has suffered any financial loss as a result of Phoenix Life not
providing clear and correct information about his pension policy. I note here what Mr A says
about not getting any redress. But sometimes, even though mistakes have been made, no
financial loss will have resulted. In that scenario, no redress (aside from any payment for
distress and inconvenience) will be due. Our role isnt to punish or fine businesses where
something has gone wrong.
Mr A says the incorrect information led to delays during which time the transfer value of his
policy fell. The (overall) transfer value quoted in the May 2020 retirement pack was
£192,020. By mid July 2020 that had dropped to £172,069. Phoenix Life was prepared to
honour the higher valuation. I think what Phoenix Life offered in its letter of 1 October 2020
wouldve put Mr A back in the position he wouldve been in, but for the confusion and delay
caused by Phoenix Life failing to provide correct information. But, unfortunately, Mr A didnt
get the letter. So the transfer (based on backdated values) didnt go ahead at that stage.
Mr A did transfer sometime later. When the transfer was actually made, the value of the NPR
was less (£174,319.26 as opposed to £192,020.83) but the value of the PR element had
increased (from £101,748 to £122,386). That meant that overall the transfer value was
higher. So Phoenix Life paid the current and higher transfer value in January 2022. On that
basis, Mr A didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of the delay in transferring as, in the
interim, the overall value of his policy increased  from £292,469 to £296,705.26. I dont
think it would be fair for Mr A to get the benefit of the increase to the PR as well as the
original and higher value for the NPR element.
Like Phoenix Life, I dont think (and assuming the policy terms and conditions and any other
considerations permitted it) that Mr A wouldve made two separate transfers. I note hed
asked for separate transfer values for the PR and the NPR elements of his policy and if hed
be able to make separate transfers. But that was on the basis he thought a GAR might
attach to the PR element of his policy and so hed want to preserve that by leaving that
element of the policy in place until his NRD in July 2030. But, as Ive said, the GARs had
been removed from both the NPR and PR elements of the policy. On his complaint form,
which he signed on 10 November 2020, Mr A said he wanted to transfer his pension to
another provider at the earliest possible opportunity. Theres nothing to suggest he was only
contemplating a transfer in respect of the NPR. And in January 2022 he transferred the
whole policy.
I dont see that Phoenix Life was responsible for ongoing delay by refusing to honour the
retirement pack NPR valuation on the three occasions Mr A has pointed to. Phoenix Lifes
position remained as it set out in response to the investigators view  that although the
value of the NPR element had fallen, the value of the PR had increased and overall Mr A
was better off when the transfer was actually made.Wed generally expect a consumer to take any reasonable steps to mitigate their position
and avoid further losses. Unlike the PR element of the policy, the NPR was no longer
invested after the NRD in July 2020 but held on deposit. Its clear that Mr A knew that 
thats recorded in his letter of complaint dated 31 July 2020. Further, I tend to agree with the
investigator that Mr A couldve chased up Phoenix Life when he didnt receive a substantive
response to his email. I can understand why Mr A says hed done as he was asked and that
shouldve been enough. But if his transfer was being held up, it wouldve been relatively
easy for Mr A to make sure that he got a response to his email. And it would then have
come to light that Phoenix Life had considered his complaints and made an offer aimed at
resolving things.
Im sorry that Mr A is likely to remain dissatisfied. But in the circumstances and for the
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Phoenix Life needs to do any more  aside from
paying Mr A £350 for distress and inconvenience. Thats a total amount so if Phoenix Life
has already paid £200 to Mr A it only needs to pay a further £150.
Phoenix Life didnt comment in response to my provisional decision. Mr A did. He referred to 
what Id said about compensation being aimed at putting the consumer in the position theyd 
be in had the mistake not occurred. And that he hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result 
of the delay in transferring in as in the interim the overall value of his policy had increased. 
Mr A said, although that was the case, hed lost out on investment returns during the delay 
as a result of the NPR element not being invested from his NRD in July 2020 to when the 
transfer was made in January 2022. He said that was demonstrated by the PR element 
increasing in value from £91,543 to £122,386 over that period (over 33%). He said it 
included periods of delay that were directly attributable to Phoenix Life:
The period between the date of issue of the retirement pack (12 May 2020) and 
Phoenix Lifes final response letter dated 1 October 2020 (which he didnt receive);
At least part of the period following Phoenix Lifes failure to respond to his email of 29 
October 2020 and when he first saw Phoenix Lifes letter final response letter. 
Although he didnt accept he was at fault for not chasing Phoenix Life beyond his 
email, a period of delay would inevitably have resulted even if hed done so;
The period between Phoenix Life having al the transfer documentation on 29 
November 2021 and the transfer having actually been made on 25 January 2022.
Mr A said my provisional decision didnt appear to take that into account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree with Mr A that I didnt consider if hed suffered any loss because the NPR 
element of his fund had remained uninvested. Towards the end of my provisional decision I 
said the following:
Wed generally expect a consumer to take any reasonable steps to mitigate their position
and avoid further losses. Unlike the PR element of the policy, the NPR was no longer
invested after the NRD in July 2020 but held on deposit. Its clear that Mr A knew that 
thats recorded in his letter of complaint dated 31 July 2020. Further, I tend to agree with the
investigator that Mr A couldve chased up Phoenix Life when he didnt receive a substantive
response to his email. I can understand why Mr A says hed done as he was asked and that
shouldve been enough. But if his transfer was being held up, it wouldve been relatively
easy for Mr A to make sure that he got a response to his email. And it would then havecome to light that Phoenix Life had considered his complaints and made an offer aimed at
resolving things. 
So what I said was that any financial loss Mr A had suffered because the NPR element was 
uninvested wasnt Phoenix Lifes responsibility. 
Although, with hindsight, it seems Mr A has lost out because his NPR element wasnt 
invested, that wasnt a foregone conclusion. Investment conditions during 2020 and 
subsequently have been volatile. Some investors have chosen to move to cash or deposit 
funds rather than remaining invested. Any gain (or loss) will depend on the precise timing of 
the transaction(s). 
As I said, Mr A knew that the NPR element was held on deposit from July 2020 going 
forwards. So he knew he wouldnt benefit from any investment return on that money. If that 
wasnt what he wanted it was presumably open to him to take steps to mitigate that  he 
could have given instructions for the money to be invested. Even if that wasnt an option he 
knew that any delay on Phoenix Lifes part  for whatever reason  meant his NPR fund was 
still held on held on deposit and hed be losing out on any investment return in respect of 
that element of his fund. On that basis I maintain he couldve chased things up with Phoenix 
Life. I dont think any loss hes suffered as a result of his NPR element remaining uninvested 
is down to Phoenix Life. 
Ive set out in full above my provisional findings and these form part of this decision. For the 
reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and my final decision I dont think Phoenix 
Life needs to do any more aside from paying Mr A, in total, £350 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr As complaint but only in part. Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr A £350 
as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by Phoenix Life Limiteds errors.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman