DRN-2918676
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen Financial Services
(VWFS).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint VWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Z acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr Z. The car here was a
little less than two years old and had already completed about 47,000 miles. So, I think its
fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car might have already
suffered wear and tear. But I dont think a reasonable person would consider the issues Mr Z
has reported to be satisfactory on a car of this age and mileage. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when VWFS were responsible for its quality,
unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
Ive seen messages from Mr Z to the dealership complaining about the satellite navigation
not working in November 2019 and complaining about the dent in the quarter panel from as
early as September 2019. He complained about the paintwork and trim panels in January
2020. As all of those faults were reported within the first six months the onus was therefore
on VWFS to demonstrate the faults Mr Z complained of were not there from the beginning.
I dont think VWFS have been able to do that. The independent inspector confirmed:
the front door, both rear doors and the front bumper had been repainted to a poor
standard;
there were a lot of fault codes that needed further investigation;
the lane assist didnt work;
the cameras on the wing mirrors didnt work;
the door trim panels all had yellow markings on them that would suggest they werent
original equipment.
I dont think its fair to suggest all these issues should have been identified by Mr Z when he
inspected the car before supply. I can see the independent inspector used a paint thickness
gauge to identify some of the paintwork issues and I dont think they were particularly
obvious to the untrained eye.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at
the point of supply. So, I think VWFS should now be given this opportunity.
Putting things right
VWFS should arrange to have the paintwork issues put right. The independent inspector
said that paint readings on the offside were not consistent with the rest of the vehicle. So,
the repairs completed by VWFS will need to resolve that issue and to remedy the poor
paintwork on all of the body panels the inspector identified. The dealership and Mr Z have
both referred to a problem with a dent on the near side quarter panel so, for avoidance of
doubt, the business should ensure that is resolved to Mr Zs satisfaction.
Theyll also need to fix the lane assist and to ensure the cameras are working on the wing
mirrors as Mr Z reported these issues within six months, and Ive not seen evidence that
contradicts the assumption the legislation asks us to make that the faults were present when
the car was supplied to Mr Z.
The inspector identified many fault codes present in the system. These will need to be
reviewed by the business and rectified unless there is evidence that any were not present or
developing when the car was supplied.
Mr Z has complained about the satellite navigation system not working. The independent
inspector wasnt able to replicate that fault. Ive seen that he turned the system on and off
several times without a fault occurring and that he was able to successfully program the unit
to navigate to a destination. As a fault hasnt been identified it wouldnt be fair to ask VWFS
to fix it. They should however, investigate the fault Mr Z has reported and if they can
replicate the issue they should resolve it.
I note that the independent inspector identified that the door trims were not original
equipment. He didnt suggest there was anything wrong with the panels, but I can see Mr Z 
has complained there are holes in the panels that have been coated in yellow paint. I think
the yellow marks should be removed but Im not persuaded to tell VWFS to replace these
panels as I think this sort of issue would have been clearly noticeable when Mr Z inspected
the car before he took receipt of it.Mr Z has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to escalate his complaint to
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and hes had to make himself
available for the independent inspection. I understand this issue must have been frustrating
for him and I think in the circumstances VWFS should pay him £250 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial
Services (UK) Limited to:
arrange to have the paintwork issues put right in line with my comments above;
fix the lane assist and wing mirror cameras;
review the fault codes present at no cost to Mr Z and fix any issues that are identified
in this review and are likely to have been present or developing when the car was
supplied;
review the fault Mr Z has reported with the satellite navigation system and if any fault
can be found, repair it;
pay Mr Z £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove any yellow marks on the door trims;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Zs credit file in relation to
these issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or
reject my decision before 6 July 2021. 
Mr Z didnt accept my provisional decision. He said as the investigator had suggested VWFS 
should repair the car they had used that opportunity up and the car should now be rejected. 
He didnt think it was fair to expect him to accept a vehicle in which every panel had been 
repainted to a shoddy standard and there had been so many problems with it. He said the 
car wasnt safe and there had been extensive delays and a lack of action by VWFS. He said 
theyd provided a poor service to him and had caused unimaginable stress. He said his 
credit score had been ruined and hed struggled to get credit. Mr Z explained that hed now 
financed another vehicle and hadnt missed any repayments on that agreement or on 
previous agreements with VWFS. He said he would like the car rejected.
VWFS accepted my provisional decision but they explained that they may not be able to 
arrange all repairs themselves as their diagnostic equipment was limited. They suggested 
that Mr Z should arrange repairs at a specialist dealership and that they would reimburse the 
costs when provided with receipts. They explained that arrears on the account were now in 
excess of £9,000 and that a payment plan would need to be set up with Mr Z. They said they 
would be obligated to report missed payments if the arrears werent paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it would be fair to suggest VWFS have already had an opportunity to repair      
Mr Zs car because our investigator suggested that action. VWFS had the right to ask for a 
final decision by an ombudsman and they didnt accept or attempt any repairs. So, whilst I 
understand Mr Zs frustration that there have been quite extensive problems with the vehicle, 
the law allows VWFS an opportunity to repair them and Im asking them to review the fault 
codes that Mr Z says are a safety hazard.VWFS have an obligation to accurately report missed payments to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) so I cant say they have been wrong to do so if Mr Z hasnt completed 
payments on time. But I can understand that Mr Z would have been unhappy making 
payments against his agreement whilst the car still had problems. I think the fairest 
resolution here would be to remove any adverse reports VWFS have made to the CRAs up 
to the date of settlement but if arrears remain on the account after that VWFS should report 
them as they are obligated to do.
It was Mr Zs decision to finance another vehicle and I dont think thats a reason to allow him 
to reject this one. When the vehicle is repaired he will be able to discuss with VWFS if the 
car can be returned and sold at auction to offset the balance due on the agreement.
VWFS have suggested they dont have the necessary diagnostic kit to complete the repairs 
required but neither does Mr Z. I dont think its fair to put the onus on him to organise and 
pay for repairs and to subsequently ask VWFS to refund them. If VWFS dont have the 
facility to repair the car they should organise for the car to be repaired elsewhere. But I think 
its important VWFS do this to minimise the inconvenience to Mr Z, keep control of the costs 
and ensure Mr Z is not financially inconvenienced. 
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any further information that leads me to change my provisional 
decision and that now becomes my final decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
arrange to have the paintwork issues put right in line with my comments above;
fix the lane assist and wing mirror cameras;
review the fault codes present at no cost to Mr Z and fix any issues that are identified
in this review and are likely to have been present or developing when the car was
supplied;
review the fault Mr Z has reported with the satellite navigation system and if any fault
can be found, repair it;
pay Mr Z £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove any yellow marks on the door trims;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Zs credit file in relation to
these issues up to the date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman