DRN-3880519
The complaint
Mrs S complains that West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance (Zenith) have 
incorrectly  charged her an excess twice on her claim for her dog M, and that they sent an 
insensitive letter after M had been put to sleep. 
 
What happened
Mrs S had a time limited pet insurance policy with Zenith for her dog M.
In June 2022 she took M to the vets as she was unwell. M had lost weight and had a high 
temperature and the vets advised M needed an exploratory operation which took place the 
next day. 
Mrs S was advised that M would be available for collection around 6pm, but when she 
contacted the vets, they advised M was too unwell to return home, and that she needed 
intravenous pain relief. As the practice didnt provide overnight care, they said they would be 
transferring M to overnight hospital care at another practice. 
The next morning, Mrs S was advised that M was still unwell and a second operation would 
be needed. However, they said M may not survive a second operation, and after further 
discussion, the decision was made to put M to sleep later that day. 
Mrs S made a claim under her insurance policy for the treatment by both practices. 
When Zenith settled the claim, they deducted two excesses of £199, one from each  
practices bill. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this as she thought that the second excess shouldnt have been 
deducted because it was a continuation claim for the same condition. She complained to 
Zenith, but they didnt uphold her complaint, and so she brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint and he thought that the second 
excess shouldnt have been charged as it should have been treated as a continuation claim. 
He asked Zenith to refund the excess.  He also thought that they should pay £50 for distress 
and inconvenience caused by a letter they sent after M had passed away in which they 
referred to her recovery.   
Zenith disagreed with this and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
I can see from the second practices claim that they have clearly indicated that they provide 
out of hours hospitalisation for the first practice, and that this was a continuation claim. M 
was only moved to the second practice because she needed overnight care which the first 
practice didnt have facilities for. 
In their response to us Zenith have said that although the two claims were for the same 
condition, and they accept the second claim was a continuation claim, they were still entitled 
to deduct a second excess under the terms of the policy because it says: 
The fixed excess is payable by you on a per incident, per period of insurance basis. 
If your pet is seen and/or treated by another veterinary practice (or specialist) for the 
same condition in the same period of insurance, another fixed excess becomes due 
for any further costs incurred from that second treating vet.
However, I dont agree with this. The policy term says that the excess is payable on a per 
incident, per period of insurance basis.
Incident is further defined in the policy as any clinical sign of illness or injury in your pet. 
The clinical signs of illness that M was suffering from when Mrs S took her to the first 
practice didnt subside and they werent cured. She in fact deteriorated despite surgery, and 
so I consider that this was all the same incident, and just because she was transferred to 
another practice because the first practice didnt provide overnight hospital care, this doesnt 
constitute another incident within the terms of the policy. 
I consider that both of these claims arise from one illness arising from the same incident and 
so it doesnt require a separate excess.  
 
I understand that Zenith are relying on the second part of this policy term in that M has been 
seen by another practice in the same period of insurance, but I consider that part of the term 
is subject to there being a separate incident, which isnt the case here. And so, I dont think 
the second excess should have been charged
The letter
I can see that Zenith sent Mrs S a letter after they received her claim which said 
Thank you for submitting your claim for M's veterinary treatment and we trust 
that she is recovering well.
This was sent despite the claim including M being put down, and so it was apparent to 
Zenith that M had died. I appreciate that this would have been a mistake, but it was a 
careless one, and distressing for Mrs S to receive this letter. And so, I agree with the 
investigator that a small award for distress and inconvenience is appropriate. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think Zenith should: 
Refund the £199 excess charge, adding 8% simple interest from the date Mrs S 
made payment to the vet until settlement. 
Pay Mrs S £50 for the distress caused by Zeniths email about Ms recovery, when 
shed already passed away.My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint against West Bay Insurance Plc 
trading as Zenith Insurance and directing them to put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman