DRN-2513631
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains about the way HSBC Bank UK Plc handled 
its application for a Bounce Back Loan. 
Mr H is Bs director and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
B was looking to apply for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme from HSBC in May 
2020.
Mr H initially applied for the loan using the account details for the basic bank account that he 
held with HSBC. But HSBC wouldnt accept that  and said that B would need to open its 
own account with the bank in order to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. 
Mr H then applied to open a business current account for B. After that application was 
declined, he applied for a Bounce Back Loan feeder account  an account used solely to 
draw the loan funds down. But HSBC declined that too.
Mr H says HSBC misinformed him at the outset. He says he was led to believe that he could 
apply using his own account details and that HSBC didnt tell him hed need to open an 
account for B. While hes since managed to obtain a Bounce Back Loan for B from another 
lender, he says that HSBC kept him waiting for weeks  wasting his time, causing him a lot 
of stress and putting his business at risk. 
Mr H also says its unfair for HSBC to have credit scored Bs application for a feeder 
account, when its only a temporary facility used to obtain a loan under the Scheme  and as 
applications for the Bounce Back Loan itself arent subject to credit checks. 
HSBC has accepted that it incorrectly advised Mr H about how to apply initially and its paid 
him £50 compensation for the inconvenience this caused. But the bank says it didnt make 
an error in requiring B to open an account or in declining its applications, which didnt meet 
its criteria.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint but didnt think HSBC needed to do 
anything more to put things right. In summary, he said:
HSBC had the discretion to decide how it would offer Bounce Back Loans to new 
customers. And it was reasonable to require an account to be opened first, so that 
the bank could complete anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks in 
line with its legal and regulatory obligations and as required under the Scheme. 
HSBC was entitled to assess applications for a new account against its own criteria, 
and had explained the checks it would make within the account application form. 
HSBC had fairly assessed Bs application. Its internal records showed that the 
application hadnt met the banks criteria. And those criteria hadnt been adjusted in 
light of the pandemic. 
While HSBC had misadvised Mr H initially, this had been cleared up within a few 
days. He thought the compensation that had already been paid was a fair way to 
make up for any inconvenience this had caused B. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. He maintained that HSBC hadnt followed the 
rules set by the government about loans under the Scheme and that the compensation was 
insufficient. So he asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, and it was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr H held a personal account with HSBC, his business  B  didnt. As its B who was 
applying for the Bounce Back Loan, I think HSBC was right to treat B as a new customer. 
Its regrettable that there was some confusion over this initially. HSBC has already accepted 
that it incorrectly told Mr H that he could apply through his personal account, when in fact B 
would be required to open its own account. So the first application had to be cancelled, and 
a new one started. HSBCs records show that all happened within a few days. So I dont 
think it caused any significant delay. I can see that it did put B to some inconvenience  in 
having to reapply  but I think the £50 that HSBC has already paid is fair compensation for 
this.
As B was a new customer, HSBC required it to open a new account  either a business 
current account or a feeder account  before it could apply for a Bounce Back Loan. Thats 
in line with its standard process. And I think it was reasonable, for two main reasons. First, 
there was no obligation on HSBC to offer loans under the Scheme to new customers at all, 
and it had the discretion to decide the basis on which it would do so. And second, HSBC has 
explained that the account-opening process enables it to complete the various checks 
expected of it  under its legal and regulatory obligations, and as required by the Scheme 
rules.
Ive checked that HSBC hasnt increased its criteria when considering applications for an 
account from new customers seeking a Bounce Back Loan Scheme compared with its 
practice previously. And Ive confirmed that it assessed Bs application against those criteria. 
So I think it treated B fairly. And, as Ive seen from HSBCs internal records that Bs 
application didnt meet those criteria, I dont think the bank did anything wrong in declining to 
offer B an account.
HSBCs criteria include certain credit score requirements. Mr H doesnt think its fair for 
HSBC to have factored credit information into its decision, and I understand his view. He is 
right to say that lenders arent expected to decline applications for the Bounce Back Loan 
itself on the basis of credit-related concerns  and the purpose of the feeder account was to 
draw down the loan funds. But the feeder account is a separate product to the loan and 
therefore it is legitimately subject to different rules and requirements. As Ive set out above, 
HSBC had the discretion to decide the basis on which it would accept applications from new 
customers  so it could decide the eligibility criteria for the accounts it offered them, including 
its credit-scoring requirements.Mr H also says that HSBC didnt make him aware that the account application would be 
subject to a credit check and that he wouldnt have proceeded if hed known. But looking at 
the banks online application process, which Mr H completed, I can see that it asks 
applicants to read its privacy notice, highlighting that this sets out how and why it uses credit 
reference checks. The privacy notice itself explains that HSBC may use such checks when 
customers apply for new products or services, and goes into some detail about what that 
entails. I think this was sufficient to make Mr H aware that the bank might use credit checks 
when considering Bs application.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in how it handled Bs 
application  save for the incorrect information it provided at the outset, for which fair 
compensation has already been paid. So Im not requiring it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman