DRN-2406543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt 
renew Mrs Ns motor insurance policy and provided general poor service to them. 
What happened
LV accepted that it didnt automatically renew the policy in 2019, as it should have done. As 
it didnt contact them, Mr and Mrs N were unknowingly without cover for five days. They said 
the new policy they then had to take out was at a high premium, due to LV wrongly having 
recorded a non-fault incident earlier in the year as a fault claim. In addition, Mr N said he 
made a complaint in May 2019 that wasnt dealt with until he raised it again with LVs Chief 
Executive. LV said the premium it charged was correct. It offered Mr and Mrs N £50 for not 
renewing the policy, indemnified them for the non-insured period and offered a further £50 
for not recording the complaint on time and for errors in its closure letter. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept the proposed settlement, so one of our investigators reviewed 
their complaint. He thought LV had acted reasonably in the way it had tried to put matters 
right. Mr and Mrs N then asked for a review of their complaint by an ombudsman. They 
thought the appropriate remedy would be for LV to refund the full premium.    
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs N would have been shocked to find that theyd been without 
cover for five days, as the consequences for them could have been severe. Fortunately, 
nothing happened during that period. We arent able to award compensation for what might 
have occurred, just for the actual consequences of the error that was made. LV thought it 
had contacted them, but I think it acted reasonably in offering £50 compensation for the 
shock of the non-renewal, plus the inconvenience it caused, in addition to the indemnity.
I dont think Mr and Mrs N have been able to show that the premium LV charged for the new 
policy in 2019 was excessive, or that it was inflated due to the incident in February 2019 
being recorded incorrectly. Mr and Mrs Ns new policy in 2019 cost around £79 more than 
the previous one. Thats likely to be the result of general factors. LVs underwriters have said 
that the premium charged was correct, as the incident in February 2019 was rated as a non-
fault incident. I dont think  theres any evidence that LV got the premium wrong. 
Mr N told us an advisor informed him initially that the new premium would be around £400 
more than was actually charged after he got a quote online. He said the advisor queried his 
actions and suggested that he may have acted fraudulently if the details hed put online had 
produced a lower quote. I cant see that the advisors comment was raised with LV, so it 
hasnt commented, but if Mr Ns recollection is correct, I understand why he would have 
been upset. LV says the advisors quote was based on the open, partial-fault claim that was 
recorded on its system. It says it was recorded that way  in line with standard industry 
practice - because the other insurer hadnt accepted liability. 
I think it was fair enough for Mr N to enter the February 2019 incident online as a non-fault 
incident (which led to the lower quote). But I dont think LV was wrong to record the incident 
as it did either, given that open claims are usually recorded as fault claims. It often takes  
time for another insurer to accept liability, and it isnt clear whether LV could reasonably 
have amended its records earlier than it did. I think the major point is that LV only charged 
Mr and Mrs N the lower quote, so they didnt pay more than was correctly due. 
LV accepts that the advisor should have raised a complaint for Mr and Mrs N in May 2019 
but failed to do so. I think the £50 it offered for this error (plus minor errors in a letter) is 
sufficient. The fact that Mr and Mrs N had to complain again must have been frustrating for 
them, and they were inconvenienced by it, but I dont think there was any other detriment to 
them during the period they had to wait for the complaint to be dealt with.
Mr N says the advisors he dealt with didnt show any empathy and that they were sometimes 
dismissive or rude. When asked, Mr N didnt give the investigator any specific examples of 
the rudeness he faced  and I cant see that he complained to LV about it. I think a 
consumer can feel their concerns are being dismissed if an advisor isnt swayed by the 
consumers viewpoint. And it seems Mr N asked for a different case handler to be appointed, 
which didnt happen. As this it wasnt raised as part of Mr and Mrs Ns complaint to LV either, 
we have scant details. But I think its fair to say that in most circumstances, its better for a 
consumer if one person deals with their claim or complaint.
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for LV to be required to refund the premium for 
the 2019 policy, as Mr and Mrs N benefitted from it for the whole year. Mr N said as the 2018  
policy didnt auto-renew as it should have, they didnt get what they paid for. But the cover 
was provided for that whole year, too - and I think the failure to renew is a separate issue. 
In my opinion, Mr and Mrs N were inconvenienced by LVs service failures. I understand why 
they were upset, but I think LV made a reasonable attempt to put matters right. I know Mr 
and Mrs N will be disappointed, as they think LV acted in a cavalier fashion. Although it 
made errors, I dont think theres evidence of that. As I dont think LV should have to pay any 
further compensation for distress and inconvenience, Im not upholding this complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr N and Mrs N to accept or reject it before 2 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman