DRN-3077997
The complaint
 This complaint is about two applications Mr N made for a mortgage through a broker firm 
that is a representative of Sesame Limited. Hes unhappy with how his applications were 
handled and with how he was treated by the broker firms staff.
   
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions on the three core elements of the 
complaint.
The first application foundered when it was confirmed that Mr Ns deposit for the house 
purchase was coming from his partners parents rather than his own. Having looked at 
everything that was said at the time, it looks to me like a genuine mix-up between Mr N and 
the advisor, with neither party being more to blame than the other. Its the kind of confusion 
that, whilst unfortunate, sometimes happens in life. I dont find it to have a material bearing 
on the overall outcome of the complaint.
I take a different view about the second application. Mr N may have been less than precise 
in his responses to Sesame about the historic debt that he was paying at £5 a month. But 
Sesame was the expert here, and even if it didnt have precise knowledge of the lenders 
policy, it should have understood the importance of establishing the exact amount of the 
debt before referring to the lender. In other words, instead of accepting Mr Ns approximation 
of the outstanding amount, Sesame should have told him to find out the exact amount before 
relaying the information to the lender. 
Had Sesame done that, it wouldnt have changed the lenders eventual decision; the 
application would still have been rejected. The difference is that this would have happened 
without Mr N settling the debt in the reasonable hope (I think expectation would be an 
overstatement) that the application would be approved. Sesame doesnt have to reimburse 
Mr N the amount he paid to clear the historic debt; it was, after all, his debt. But Sesame 
does have to compensate Mr N for his time, trouble and upset, and if that was all that had 
happened, Id have considered its offer of £200 to be enough.
That brings me to the third element of the complaint; the comments Sesame made about 
Mr N in a phone conversation with the second lender. Mr N found out about this after 
receiving a recording of the call following a data subject access request to the lender. I wont 
reveal the exact nature of the comments here; theres no need to. Looking at them from a 
neutral and objective point of view, I dont think they were defamatory, but they were 
disrespectful. Also, as the Sesame staff member actually admits in the call, they shouldnt 
have been made. 
Sesame has expressed its unhappiness with how Mr N has spoken to its staff at times. Its 
quite possible that both sides in this dispute have said things they possibly could have said 
in a better manner. But I can only judge what is before me, and in any event, in its calls to 
and about Mr N, Sesame was required to act professionally. Having listened to the call 
content, I can well imagine Mr N finding it quite upsetting. Thats why I agree with our 
investigator that Sesame should pay Mr N an extra £200 compensation, making £400 in all.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part by ordering Sesame Limited to pay 
Mr N £400. I make no other order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman