DRN-3701612
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (trading as GE Money 
Home Lending) (GE Money) unfairly turned down claims under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M bought a timeshare (in the form of holiday club membership points) from a 
business (that Ill call C) in August 2006. The cost of the timeshare was over £26,400. Mr M 
and Mrs M paid a deposit of about £5,500 (by trading in points theyd purchased previously 
for a trial membership) and they took out a fixed sum loan in joint names with GE Money for 
around £25,000, repayable over 15 years. Both the deposit and the proceeds of the loan 
werent paid to C but to a different business that Ill call L. Mrs M and Mr M said they were 
subjected to high pressure sales practices when they took out the timeshare and they were 
told (in summary) that:-
the timeshare was a valuable investment that they could give back whenever they 
wanted, at no further charge;
they would own property which would be placed in trust;
to ensure that holidays were delivered every year, their property (and others like it) 
would be loaned to a select club that theyd become members of automatically;
theyd pay membership fees and acquire points each year which could be 
exchanged to access the clubs inventory of property;
cheap flights were available to members and points purchased with the loan would 
be sufficient to enable them to take holidays when they wanted in their preferred 
resorts and at other prime locations; and 
furnishings in the property would be replaced every three years. 
Mr M and Mrs M state that the points purchased proved insufficient and they had to accept 
accommodation of a lower specification and/or give two to three years notice to secure 
accommodation at their preferred resorts - despite being members and paying for points 
every year. Mr M and Mrs M say C made misrepresentations to them at the time of sale and, 
if they had known what C said wasnt right, they wouldnt have purchased the timeshare in 
the first place.
In October 2017 Mrs M and Mr M complained to GE Money (using a representative). GE 
Money responded saying the misrepresentations hadnt been sufficiently particularised and, 
in any event, the claim had been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in 
the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). GE Money also noted that the loan proceeds had been paid 
to L and not C so it didnt think there were the right types of arrangements in place for the 
CCA to apply to this complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and he didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. He agreed that the claim under section 75 CCA had been brought too late, 
so he didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. He also looked 
at section 140A CCA but he didnt think that provision applied - as the loan pre-dated the 
enactment of this provision.
Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives responded to explain why they thought the complaint had 
been brought in time (among other things) and the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint but my reasons were a bit different to the 
investigator. I issued a provisional decision - which forms part of my final decision - to let the 
parties consider my findings and make further submissions, if they wanted to, before I made 
my final decision. Ive set out the substance of my provisional findings below. 
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I said, having considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I 
wasnt minded to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter. I explained that 
I have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And if I didnt 
address every point thats been raised, its not because I hadnt thought about it. Id 
considered everything thats been said and sent to us but Id concentrated on what I think is 
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome overall. 
Were the right arrangements in place for Mrs M and Mr M to make a claim under the CCA?
Under section 75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim 
under that provision. GE Money said that there was no such agreement in this case, as the 
supplier of the timeshare was C, but the loan proceeds went to a different business, L, so no 
claim could be brought. I didnt think I needed to make a finding on this point as I considered 
GE Money would have a total defence under the LA for the reasons set out below. 
Was the claim under section 75 CCA brought in time?
I considered what Mrs M and Mr M said about misrepresentations they thought C made 
about the nature and benefits of the timeshare agreement and GE Moneys liability under 
section 75 CCA. I was satisfied if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of 
the time limits set out in the LA it would be entitled to rely on that as a defence but I wasnt 
deciding if any right that Mrs M and Mr M may have to bring these claims has expired under 
the LA - thats a matter for the courts. I was considering if GE Money has acted fairly and 
reasonably in turning down the claims.
I thought a sections 2 and 9 of the LA applied and under both of those provisions, a claimant 
has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued 
so Mrs M and Mr M had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to 
being a claim. I found the date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that 
everything needed to make a legal claim occurred which was when they could have brought 
a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE Money. I 
considered this was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare  on 2 
August 2006. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations made by C  and had the misrepresentations not been made, they 
wouldnt have bought the product. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they 
took out the loan agreement with GE Money. I was satisfied they didnt try to contact GE 
Money about their claim until 2017, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. 
And I didnt think GE Money acted unfairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I thought this is relevant law and took it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mrs M and Mr M could have made a claim under 
section 140A CCA and concluded that they couldnt - as that provision didnt apply to their 
credit agreement because section 140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 
2006. Schedule 3 of that Act sets out what credit agreements section 140A CCA applies to. 
In short, if a credit agreement had completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under section 
140A CCA could be brought in respect of that credit agreement.
In response to the investigators view, GE Money objected to us looking at section 140A 
because (it said) this was not raised by Mr M and Mrs M previously. I was satisfied that Mr M 
and Mrs Ms representatives refer to section 140A CCA specifically in a document which 
appears to have been sent to GE Money with the letter of complaint in 2017. So I was 
minded to find the claim under section 140A was raised and I went on to consider it. 
GE money say Mr M and Mrs M settled the loan the same year they took it out  in 2006. Id 
seen nothing to show that any sums remain payable under the finance, I considered it more 
likely than not this ended in 2006 and its not possible therefore for Mr M and Mrs M to bring 
a claim under section 140A CCA in respect of this loan. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives suggested that the limitation period in relation to the claim 
made under s140A CCA is not six years but twelve under section 8 of the LA. I said (for the 
reasons given above) I didnt think section 140A applies. And I was satisfied, in any event, 
that the claims raised are for the repayment of money and would therefore be subject to a 
six year limitation period under s.9 LA. 
I thought GE Money should have considered the section 140A CCA claim so I couldnt say it 
acted fairly in not responding to that. However, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think 
GE Money would have upheld this claim if it had properly considered it and I wasnt 
persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything further. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms arguments on limitation 
I noted that Mrs M and Mr M may say they didnt know about the time limits in the LA I 
referred to but thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives made several arguments as to why they dont think the 
investigator was correct about limitation and I dealt with each in turn.
The representatives argued that, under section 11A LA, time didnt start to run for limitation 
purposes for Mrs M and Mr M until they first had knowledge that they could start proceedings 
against GE Money. This provision is titled Actions in respect of defective products and it 
applies to an action for damages by virtue of Part 1 of the Consumer Protection Act 1987. I 
was satisfied this relates to actions that arise out of defective products - not the provision of 
services such as timeshares  and it didnt help Mr M and Mrs M here. 
I wasnt persuaded that section 14A LA applies either. This provision provides for a second 
period in which a claim for negligence can be made. And, looking at what happened when 
Mrs M and Mr M purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I thought there was an 
obligation to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make 
an informed choice about whether to take out the loan but no duty of care arose or advice 
was provided that could give rise to a claim to which s.14A LA could apply.
I was asked to consider section 32 LA, which states that, in cases of fraud, concealment or 
mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, 
concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives didnt explain how exactly they think this applies to the claim that C 
misrepresented the nature and benefits of this timeshare. Based on the evidence Id seen, I 
couldnt see that there was any fraud, concealment or mistake. But, even if I had accepted 
that section 32 applied, I thought Mrs M and Mr M probably had enough information to start 
the clock running not long after they purchased the timeshare  given they state (in a 
witness statement from Mrs M) they had problems booking accommodation as early as 
2007.
Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives said, under our own rules, a consumer can make a 
complaint to a business within six years of the event happening - or three years from when a 
consumer realised they had a reason to complain. I explained that these rules set out the 
time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business about a regulated 
financial activity. They apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) governed complaint 
handling - which in the current context, is a complaint that GE Money unfairly turned down 
the claim. And GE Money turned down the claim because it didnt think it was legally liable 
due to the operation of the LA - which is why I considered that legislation.
I also thought about what Mrs M and Mr M said about the amount of commission that might 
have been paid by GE Money to C for arranging the loan  they think GE Money should 
have told them about that. GE Money says it doesnt have details of what, if anything, was 
paid in the case of Mr M and Mrs M, due to the passage of time. From what Id seen across 
the industry, if commission was paid it tended to be low and less than 10%. I was satisfied 
that GE Money didnt breach any duty in making such a payment  nor was it under any 
regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances.
I wasnt persuaded that Mrs M and Mr M are able to rely on section 32 LA here. Id seen 
nothing to show that C was acting as their agent and I couldnt see that its role was to make 
an impartial or dis- interested recommendation about taking out the loan. I didnt think C 
needed to disclose the fact that it might have received a commission to Mr M and Mrs M and 
I thought any commission paid was unlikely to be more than 10%. So, even if I was satisfied 
that Mrs M and Mr M could rely on section 32 LA to assist with this part of their complaint, I 
wasnt persuaded its likely a court would conclude that any commission paid created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
I said its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mrs M and Mr M 
may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I could 
see from the information available, any claim they might have against the supplier and/or GE 
Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I considered it reasonable 
to take this into account in these circumstances and I wasnt persuaded that GE Money 
acted unfairly in declining the claims. 
Responses received from the parties 
Ge Money hasnt objected to my provisional findings and Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives 
made further detailed submissions which Ive summarised below. These submissions were 
adopted by new representatives appointed by Mr M and Mrs M after I issued my provisional 
decision. On behalf of Mr M and Mrs M its said that:
I suggested they knew that things were misrepresented at the point of sale which is 
inconceivable, or they wouldnt have made the purchase and its more likely than not the 
date of knowledge was after 2017, given Mr M and Mrs M went on to purchase 
substantially similar products  which they wouldnt have done, if theyd known that 
things said at the outset were untrue;
Im obliged (under the DISP rules) to consider similar fact evidence and I should take 
account of other decisions made by this service involving the same supplier;I should reconsider the date of knowledge  and extend the time Mr M and Mrs M had to 
bring a claim by applying DISP 2.8.2(2)  as they had three years from the date they 
knew (or should reasonably have been aware that) they had cause for complaint;
the application of section 32 LA should also be reconsidered to extend limitation - on the 
basis of failure to disclose/concealment of commission paid, the corporate relationships 
involved in the sale which were such that the supplier effectively received 100% 
commission and secret commission is alleged so the lender has a duty to disclose 
commission paid - and, in the absence of a response, I should assume commission was 
paid, its irrelevant whether this was lowly or a marketable average as commission paid 
and not disclosed is deemed a bribe and this was concealed; 
theres been a breach of contract due to the suppliers insolvency - the covert supplier 
has the same directors as the club and, due to the insolvency of the PLC, the club is 
incapable of delivering any benefit for the consideration paid - and, in any event, 
benefits paid for no longer exist, the product purchased was never capable of being 
delivered because the supplier was worthless since incorporation and remained 
dormant and incapable of delivering any of the benefits paid for, which should have 
been disclosed;  
in light of fraudulent misrepresentations made and material facts concealed, time should 
be extended under the LA and an unfair relationship found under section 140A.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about this 
complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In addition to the submissions summarised above, Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives have 
referred me to around 1,600 pages of similar fact evidence supplied as well as decisions 
made by this service in other complaints - that they also consider to be on similar facts to 
this one. Our investigator had difficulty accessing some of that additional evidence but I have 
been able to do so now and I want to confirm that I have considered everything provided by 
the parties. 
As Ive explained already, if I dont address every single point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. However Im going to concentrate here on the key issues that I think are relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. This service has an inquisitorial role but 
Im not required to seek out evidence (in support of any particular partys case) in other 
complaints raised with us. We consider each complaint on its own unique circumstances. 
Our decisions dont create a precedent. And, I make my decision about Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint, having considered the individual circumstances, based on what I think is fair and 
reasonable overall.  
Im sorry to disappointment Mr M and Mrs M but, having reconsidered the facts and 
circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions. I 
note that the representatives do not seek to challenge my findings under what they refer to 
as Unfair Relationship paragraphs 18-23 (set out under the heading the claim under 
section 140A CCA above and in the preceding paragraph) however they go on to ask me to 
reconsider both limitation and s140A, among other things. For the reasons Ive given already 
and set out in a bit more detail below, I remain of the view section 140A does not apply and I 
see no fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint.  Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives have raised a breach of contract claim in their most 
recent submissions arising out of an insolvency in Cs corporate group. As far as I can see 
this hasnt been raised before with GE Money so GE Money hasnt had the chance to 
consider it and respond and it would not be appropriate for me to consider this in my final 
decision. 
I cant say why Mr M and Mrs M may have decided to acquire additional points and/or 
purchase other timeshare products after this one. Im not persuaded that any such decision 
means my reasoning about what they should reasonably have known about this product 
(and when) isnt right. For the avoidance of any doubt, I havent said I think they had this 
knowledge at the point of sale - if thats whats suggested. I remain of the view, given the 
nature of the misrepresentations alleged, that Mr M and Mrs M should reasonably have 
realised if things they relied upon when they decided to purchase the product (and take out 
the finance) turned out to be untrue. And I think they should reasonably have been aware of 
this fairly soon after making the purchase. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives ask me to consider extending the time limits referred to in 
my provisional findings by applying DISP 2.8.2(2). For the reasons Ive given already Im not 
persuaded this assists. The DISP rules (which can be found in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) handbook) set out (amongst other things) how complaints are to be dealt 
with by this service. And the rules Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives refer to set out the time 
limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a financial business about a regulated 
financial activity but thats not in issue here - Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint is that GE Money 
unfairly turned down their claims. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that section 32 
doesnt assist Mr M and Mrs M, based on the particular facts here. I dont find the arguments 
made about commission persuasive. And, in order for me to find there was fraudulent 
misrepresentation, Id have to be satisfied they were told something untrue - that was known 
(by the representor) to be false at the time (or they were reckless as to whether it was true or 
not) which was intended to induce Mr M and Mrs M to take out these agreements and they 
suffered a loss as a result. I dont think theres enough evidence to reasonably conclude 
thats what happened and Im not persuaded that relevant facts were concealed from Mr M 
and Mrs M deliberately in the manner suggested. 
It has also been argued that the suppliers corporate structure amounts to a fraud (broadly 
speaking) but it is unclear what fraud is alleged exactly. As far as I can see, Mr M and Mrs M 
purchased a timeshare and they were able to use it for holidays. I cant fairly find they were 
defrauded just because some parts of the suppliers corporate structure took payment and 
others supplied the services paid for. And, taking everything into account, I remain of the 
view that section 32 LA doesnt extend the limitation period. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied if GE Money could show that claims raised 
were brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA it would be entitled to rely on this. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think section 140A applies and I find Mr M and Mrs Ms 
claims were likely brought outside of time limits set under the LA. The DISP rules dont 
extend time under the LA and I remain of the view it wasnt unfair or unreasonable of GE 
Money to decline these claims in the circumstances. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr M and Mrs M hoped for and Im sorry if they feel let down. 
Theyre not obliged to accept what Ive said however - in which case it remains open to them 
to pursue this matter by any alternative means available. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman