DRN-1593595
 Complaint
Mr and Mrs S say they were mis-sold a joint mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy in August 2008. The policy was originally sold by Halifax. However, St Andrews 
Insurance plc has taken over responsibility for all these policies and so Ill be referring to 
St Andrews in this decision.
Background
The policy covered Mr and Mrs S in the event of one or both of them being unable to work or 
if they were to lose their jobs. It cost them a total of £15.84 per month.  The MPPI was part 
of a wider insurance package that included life and critical illness but Im only looking at the 
MPPI element in this decision. 
The central theme of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs S say they werent given a choice 
about taking out the MPPI and they didnt need it because they each a good job and some 
savings.
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But Mr and 
Mrs S disagreed and asked for it to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
These events took place some time ago and theres only limited paperwork left from the 
sale. Given the passage of time, this isnt particularly unusual. So Im going to use both what 
Ive been told by those involved and also what I know about how these types of policy were 
typically sold. My decision is based on whats more likely to have happened.
I can see from the way the MPPI sale happened that it was an advised sale. This means 
St Andrews made a recommendation that they should take the cover. So in addition to its 
being suitable for them, St Andrews also had to provide information about the policy that 
was clear, fair and not mis-leading.
Whilst I certainly dont doubt that Mr and Mrs Ss recollections about what happened at the 
time of the sale are genuinely held, Ive seen that Mr and Mrs S took the policy out having 
arranged it over the phone. Ive also been able to review copies of computerised records 
from the time that St Andrews sent me. These show that Mr and Mrs S arranged their 
mortgage borrowing to start in April 2008. However, they didnt take out their MPPI until 
August 2008. So it looks as if they made their decision about taking out MPPI several 
months later and independently of arranging their mortgage. As it was their choice, they 
would have been aware they didnt need to buy the MPPI if they didnt want to. It is of course possible that St Andrews could or should have done more but I dont think that 
changes what I think about this case. Thats because Mr and Mrs S was eligible for the cover 
and I dont think they would have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in these types of policy. So it should have been possible for them to make a successful 
claim had they needed to. Although I dont have the actual sale paperwork I can also see 
from the screenshot evidence that Mr and Mrs S were both asked some questions to ensure 
that the policy was suitable for them. 
Mr and Mrs S told us they both had good sick pay benefit from their work so they didnt need 
the cover. It looks like this would have been up to 6 months at full pay followed by up to 6 
months at half pay for each of them. They also told us they had some savings that could 
have covered their mortgage payments for up to 3 months. 
I understand the point Mr and Mrs S are making but these things dont necessarily mean the 
policy wasnt of use to them. The mortgage was secured against their home and policies like 
this are there to help in financially difficult times. This particular policy could have paid out in 
addition to any work-related benefits they had, for up to 12 months.
Ive seen that St Andrews wrote to Mr and Mrs S with details of the cost of the MPPI and the 
amount of benefit theyd get if they ever needed to claim. I dont think the cost of the cover 
was unaffordable
Taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs S wanted this cover. I think Mr and 
Mrs Ss mortgage was a significant and long-term financial commitment and so I can see 
how they could have had a use for cover like this. The information still available suggests its 
more likely that Mr and Mrs S bought this policy because it was something they wanted and 
that they had a use for. Its possible there were some shortcomings in the information they 
were given but I think on balance they had enough on which to make an informed decision.
I would like to reassure Mr and Mrs S that I have thought carefully about all the evidence and 
information they have provided but unfortunately it doesnt lead me to conclude that this 
policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct St Andrews 
Insurance plc to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman