DRN-2733033
The complaint
A a business partnership complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc debited its account with a 
cash withdrawal that it didnt receive.
What happened
A partner of A says that he tried to withdraw cash from a cash machine on 28 September 
2018. He originally asked for £300, was told the maximum was £250 and then that he 
could have £240. He requested that latter amount of money, but nothing came out of the 
machine. This was reported to HSBC and although it refunded the money initially to A it 
was taken back from its account. A says that it asked HSBC to obtain CCTV to show that 
the partner hadnt received the money. But it didnt do so.
HSBC said that it contacted the third-party operator of the cash machine. It received 
confirmation that the machine balanced and that there were no errors. So, it held A 
responsible for the withdrawal. It wouldnt be refunding the money.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the money refunded to A 
with eight percent simple interest. A had pursued the complaint in May 2019. HSBC no 
longer had any of the information it received from the third party about this withdrawal. He 
would have expected to see the journal roll showing the transaction and information that 
the machine balanced including details of any cash in the purge bin. He wasnt able to be 
clear what HSBC had requested and received and what this showed. He had contacted the 
third party and not had a response then. It was fairly up to HSBC to retain this information.
A agreed with the recommendation of our investigator and said that there was definitely a 
fault with the machine. The CCTV had been discussed with HSBC.
HSBC didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. It thought it 
was being unfairly penalised for its retention policy. And it said that A didnt have 
evidence to show that it hadnt received the money either. It would have told A to 
contact the police about the CCTV. HSBC didnt need to see this as the machine had 
balanced.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 15 March 2021. I set out what I said 
below.
I explained that I was looking at this complaint afresh and I reviewed all the information 
weve received. Since our investigator issued his view the third-party machine operator has 
provided this service with the information hed originally requested. That changes things 
considerably and was the reason why I was issuing a provisional decision.
The information from that third party includes a journal roll showing activity at the machine 
that day, information about the money rejected and retained by the machine, evidence 
about when the machine was next balanced and comments about CCTV.
The journal roll shows that successful transactions were made both before and after the 
one that is disputed here. I could see from this that the card for As account was inserted. 
And that as the partner says initial requests for withdrawals of both £300 and £250 werent 
processed. But that a request for £240 was agreed. The entries show that 12 £20 notes 
were dispensed. I have seen the figures for the total notes in the machine both before and 
after the transaction and these are recorded as reducing by 12 £20 notes. There was no 
increased in rejected notes then. The third party has also given a reconciliation of the notes 
in the machine when it was next balanced and restocked showing that there was no 
surplus.
The third party has explained that this is the information that would have been provided 
to HSBC. It went on to say that it owns the machine and not the CCTV at sites and 
wouldnt have access to that.
The issue until now clearly has been that HSBC having reviewed this information hadnt 
retained it and so couldnt provide this as wed asked. I would have expected it to be able 
to do so. However, following our investigation the information HSBC relied upon is now 
available.
I appreciated that A wanted HSBC to obtain CCTV from the third party to show if the 
partner walked away from the machine with the money. The contact notes from HSBC 
indicate the partner was told on 8 November 2018 that HSBC wouldnt be requesting 
CCTV. And Id listened to a recording of the call he had with HSBC on 11 November 2018. 
Its position is that having seen the evidence then about the transaction it didnt need to do 
so. Thats really a matter for it to decide upon - even if thats what the partner said hed 
been told to request by the third party. I thought it was open for A to refer this to the 
authorities especially when based on the contact notes Id seen from HSBC it became 
clear that nothing further had been done by December 2018. A later raised a complaint 
and HSBC issued a final response.
I couldnt resolve what the partner was told when he spoke to the third party about CCTV. 
But it does seem likely either that he may have been given incorrect information or that he 
was referred to HSBC because the third party couldnt obtain the CCTV anyway. I couldnt 
know what CCTV would have shown even if it had been still available a number of weeks 
after the transaction. It is often not definitive in resolving disputes of this nature.
I said I wont be able to say exactly what happened, but I thought based on what Id seen 
that its most likely the notes were correctly dispensed. That doesnt rule out the possibility 
that the partner had been distracted or say simply didnt wait until the money had come out 
of the machine. Typically, money not collected is purged back but there is no evidence 
that this happened here. It is possible that another person took the money, but that 
wouldnt be HSBCs responsibility. But a key point is that the partner says he received a 
message saying to contact his bank about the withdrawal. That is at direct odds with any of 
these explanations because it would mean that the notes were simply not dispensed. As I 
said Id found it most likely that they were. And there was no such error message or code 
on the journal roll or information Id seen.
Given this finding I said I didnt have a reasonable basis to require HSBC to refund the 
money. I knew that hearing this now given the time that has passed would be a great 
disappointment for A. And because this is a change in the outcome of the complaint A 
has the opportunity to disagree and provide any further evidence to explain why.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said that it accepted my provisional decision and had no more information to add 
now.
A didnt agree. The partner involved said he didnt receive any money and he believes that 
the machine must have been faulty. That was because it didnt provide the initial amounts of 
£300 and then £250 either. When he requested £240 the machine didnt give him any money 
and he received a message to contact HSBC which he did straightaway.
I fully understand As position on this complaint, and I took this into account in my provisional 
assessment. I remain satisfied from the evidence provided by the third-party operator and 
which HSBC had at the time it looked into the complaint, that the notes were correctly 
dispensed. And I can see a record as A says that earlier attempts to withdraw higher 
amounts werent. But there is no record of any error with the £240 transaction, that this 
money was retained by the machine or that any error message was provided. Im afraid my 
conclusion and which I know will be unwelcome for A is that I wont be asking HSBC to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman