Page 1 of 4The complaint
Miss G complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from losing over 
£78,000 to an investment scam.
What happened
Miss G has explained that in 2021 she made the following payments to EverFX from her 
HSBC account, using her debit card, for what she thought was a legitimate investment.  
Transaction number Date Amount (£)
1 30 March 2021 250
2 06 April 2021 5,000
3 19 April 2021 6,000
4 20 April 2021 2,000
5 21 April 2021 5,000
6 22 April 2021 10,000
7 22 April 2021 10,000
8 23 April 2021 10,000
9 23 April 2021 10,000
10 29 April 2021 10,000
11 29 April 2021 10,000
Total 78,250
When Miss G subsequently got in touch with HSBC to explain shed been scammed, HSBC 
didnt reimburse Miss Gs lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Miss G referred her complaint 
about HSBC to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Miss G and HSBC my second provisional decision on 24 January 2023 explaining why 
I was minded to not uphold this complaint. Now that both parties have replied to my second 
provisional decision, and Ive had the opportunity to review the case again, Im ready to 
explain my final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-3976730Page 2 of 4Miss G has made detailed submissions in relation to her complaint. Ive read and considered 
everything shes sent in. But I wont be responding in similar detail. So if I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy. It reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Ive reached the same conclusions as explained in my second provisional decision dated 
24 January 2023, and for materially the same reasons. Ive explained my reasons again, 
with some further comment where appropriate to address the responses to my second 
provisional decision. 
I have seen information from December 2022 that a Eurojust (European Union Agency for 
Criminal Justice Cooperation) probe led to an arrest of someone claimed to be the head of a 
fake platform called EverFX. Given this information, the complex group and structure of 
businesses linked to EverFX, and Miss Gs submissions, Im satisfied it is now reasonable to 
assume Miss G most likely was scammed in this case. However, this doesnt automatically 
entitle Miss G to a refund from HSBC: it would only be fair for me to direct HSBC to 
reimburse Miss G if I thought it reasonably ought to have prevented her payments to the 
scam or it unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds.
Recovery
After the payments were made, as the payments were made on Miss Gs debit card, the only 
potential avenue for recovery of the payments would have been through the chargeback 
scheme. HSBC is bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this case 
is Visa. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good practice 
that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a 
chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules. And under the applicable 
chargeback rules Miss G would have needed to have provided dated evidence of withdrawal 
requests from EverFX alongside evidence of an available balance greater than or equal to 
the withdrawal requested (on the same day). 
And should HSBC process a chargeback without the required evidence, Visa would deem it 
invalid and it would not succeed at Visas final stage of arbitration. The evidence provided 
by Miss G showed there were no funds in her trading account to withdraw. So Im not 
persuaded she has been able to provide the required evidence  so Im satisfied such a 
chargeback claim would have failed. So, declining to pursue a chargeback claim on Miss Gs 
behalf where there were no reasonable prospects of success was neither an unfair nor 
unreasonable exercise of HSBCs discretion in my view. 
Prevention
Having explained that I think its reasonable to assume Miss G most likely was scammed, 
and having addressed recovery above, I can only uphold this complaint if I think HSBC 
reasonably ought to have prevented some or all of Miss Gs payments to EverFX in the first 
place, therefore preventing her loss or part of it.
It isnt in dispute that Miss G authorised the disputed payments made from her account. So 
although she didnt intend to lose the money to a scam, Miss G is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. However, banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams, and Id reasonably expect HSBC to intervene in a customers payment instruction 
before processing it in circumstances where its sufficiently unusual and/or uncharacteristic 
to warrant this, whilst bearing in mind a balance needs to be struck, to protect its customer 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud and scams.Page 3 of 4But if HSBC failed to intervene in the payments instructions when it should have, thats not 
enough by itself to uphold this complaint  Id need to be satisfied that appropriate 
intervention from HSBC would most likely have prevented the payments from being made. 
And in this particular case, Im not satisfied appropriate intervention from HSBC most likely 
would have prevented the payments from being made. So even if I concluded that HSBC 
failed to intervene with the payment instructions when it should have, Im not persuaded that 
any such omission could reasonably be regarded as the proximate cause of the loss in this 
instance. 
I say this because at the time of the payments in March and April 2021, EverFX was 
regulated outside of the UK, and it has been part of a complicated group and structure of 
businesses, that has included ICC Intercertus Capital Ltd which was permitted to operate in 
the UK under the FCAs Temporary Permission Regime (I appreciate that those permissions 
have since been withdrawn by the FCA in its supervisory notice of 14 May 2021 but this was 
after the payments had been made from Miss Gs account); and Aerarium Limited which was 
regulated by Seychelles Financial Services Authority. 
So, even if HSBC should have paused the payments pending further enquiry, Im not 
persuaded that any questioning or discussion about the purpose of the payments with 
Miss G would have likely resulted in her not making them. HSBC has no obligation to protect 
its customers from bad bargains or provide investment advice. And whilst I understand why 
Miss G has referred to the FCAs supervisory notice of 14 May 2021 stating complaints had 
been made to the regulator about EverFX since as early as January 2020, Im not persuaded 
there would have been any information available to Miss G or HSBC at the time of her 
payments to suggest she was paying a scammer, rather than making an investment with a 
legitimate offshore broker dealing in high-risk trades.
Miss G has said her argument is not so much that HSBC should have known EverFX was a 
scam, but more that it should have recognised the tell-tale patterns, and at least intervened 
and given her the chance to reconsider (in which case, she says, she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the payments). But unfortunately for Miss G, whilst there may be cases where 
intervention from HSBC would most likely have made a difference, I dont think this is one of 
them. Miss G had already been convinced by EverFX to invest. And I dont think reasonable 
intervention from HSBC is likely to have changed her mind; EverFX was regulated; and the 
available information suggested it was a legitimate enterprise (and the parties will note it was 
only since the very recent December 2022 information in the public domain that I think the 
balance of evidence shifted from EverFX most likely not being a scam to, in fact, Miss G 
most likely being scammed). 
Its important not to apply the benefit of hindsight here. I dont think I can fairly say any 
intervention from HSBC would most likely have caused Miss G to have acted differently with 
regards to her March and April 2021 payments. So even if I concluded that HSBC failed to 
intervene with the payment instructions when it should have, Im not persuaded that any 
such omission could reasonably be regarded as the proximate cause of the loss in this 
instance.
I realise Miss G will be disappointed by this. And Im sorry shes lost this money. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair to hold HSBC responsible for this or 
ask for it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Page 4 of 4Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman