DRN-2659852
The complaint
Mrs S complains she was locked out of her digital banking for months and TSB Bank plc 
didnt assist her in a timely manner. 
What happened
Mrs S says that she was unable to access her digital banking as she had forgotten her 
security details. She tried to reset the security details but was unsuccessful in doing so. Mrs 
S sent TSB an email complaining that she couldnt receive a one time passcode from them 
as she had a blocking facility on her landline phone which automatically screened out 
incoming calls if the incoming callers number doesnt start with a 0. Mrs S said that TSBs 
number which issued the one time passcode started with 44 so she couldnt receive these 
calls from TSB. Mrs S said she didnt want to temporarily remove the blocking facility on the 
phone as this would delete all of the numbers she wanted to block from her block list.
Mrs S says TSB rang her to discuss her complaint but she didnt want to answer the security 
questions as she was concerned about the call being fraudulent so TSB said they would 
send her a letter instead. Mrs S waited for the letter but as she didnt receive the letter she 
emailed TSB again a few months later informing them that this issue wasnt resolved and 
she hadnt received a letter from them which she was promised.
Mrs S says she visited the branch but the branch staff couldnt resolve her issue. She says 
she was given a telephone number to call but when she rang the number the call handler 
said he couldnt help her. The call handler transferred Mrs S so she could log a complaint. 
Mrs S says the call handler told her the original complaint she made had been closed on the 
system but they would reopen the complaint for her. TSB said they wrote to her explaining 
that the blocking facility on Mrs Ss home phone wasnt their error but Mrs S could register a 
mobile phone with them if she had one as they could send a text message with a one time 
passcode.
Mrs S asked if she could register her daughters mobile so this would enable her to get the 
one time passcode by text message and Mrs S says the call handler agreed to this but said 
she would need to go into a branch to do this. Mrs S said she was told she would receive a 
letter in five to seven working days but she says she didnt receive a response to her 
complaint.
Mrs S went into the branch the following week to see if a member of staff could help her 
register the mobile number and help her access her digital banking but after nearly 30 
minutes the member of staff was unable to do this and Mrs S said there were internet error 
messages on the screen.
Mrs S contacted TSB by phone again. She says the call handler suggested registering her 
as a new customer and this resolved her issue. Mrs S rang TSB the following month as she 
says she still hadnt received two of the letters TSB said they would send. She later received 
these two letters.
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service. She complained about the customer service she 
received as she said that TSB had taken several months to resolve the issue and she should 
be compensated for her branch visits and phone calls to resolve the issue.
Our investigator asked TSB why Mrs S needed to register as a new customer or open a new 
account for her issue to be resolved. TSB said that this didnt happen but instead her 
account was deregistered and re-registered for digital banking after a mobile phone had 
been registered. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. The investigator said when something 
goes wrong with an account, and someone has to spend time and effort to fix the problem, 
this is expected and is not something that would automatically warrant compensation. The 
investigator concluded that TSB hadnt acted unreasonably in how they handled the matter.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigator and wanted an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
In summary she said she was greatly inconvenienced, the problem took months to resolve, 
she hadnt received letters that TSB said they would send and TSB did not accept similar 
security settings as she had already used and no one had told her that until the last call 
handler who resolved the issue for Mrs S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has made a number of points to both TSB and this service and Ive considered, 
listened to and read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as 
a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here.
As Mrs S now has access to her digital banking then all thats left for me to do is to decide 
whether TSB have acted reasonably towards Mrs S in how theyve handled the situation.  
Mrs S has said that she was locked out of her digital banking for a number of months so Ive 
looked at what happened from when she first reported the issue. Ive seen that TSB tried to 
contact Mrs S in relation to the first email that she sent but Mrs S didnt want to complete the 
security questions with TSB. As Mrs S was concerned the call could be fraudulent I can 
understand why she may have been hesitant to complete the security questions, but TSB did 
try and resolve her issue in a timely manner by ringing her initially to discuss her complaint. 
Ive thought about what Mrs S has said regarding TSB telling her they would send a letter to 
her but she says she never received the letter. So I asked TSB if they could send me proof 
on their system that this letter and the other letters were sent. They provided a screenshot 
which shows the date of when the letters were sent out. As the letters were addressed to 
Mrs Ss registered address Im satisfied that TSB sent the letters to Mrs S. So it would be 
unfair for me to hold TSB responsible if there were any postal errors. 
Im persuaded by the information Ive seen that the only way for Mrs Ss issue to be resolved 
was by either adding TSBs number to her accepted list of incoming numbers or for a mobile 
number to be registered so a passcode could be sent out. I say this as this is what the 
majority of correspondence Mrs S was sent explains. Then she would be able to reset her 
security details. But I am aware she says she didnt receive letters they sent her. So Ive 
listened to one of the calls she had with TSB. The call handler does explain that she would 
either need a mobile number to receive a text message or to remove the call blocking facility on her phone so I do think TSB explained what needed to be done to resolve the issue even 
if Mrs S didnt receive the letters.
Ive thought about what Mrs S said about her going into the branch with a mobile number so 
she could be registered for digital banking. She said the branch staff were unable to help as 
there were error messages on the computer screen. She also said she wasnt told that she 
couldnt change the security details to something which were similar to what she had 
previously. Although this will have been frustrating for Mrs S to go into the branch and not 
have her issue resolved, Im not persuaded that this should result in compensation being 
paid.
I say this as the staff have tried to help her for a considerable amount of time so they have 
been trying to resolve the matter for Mrs S. TSBs systems worked as they should have 
originally as they locked Mrs Ss account when she forgot her security details. This willve 
been frustrating for Mrs S to spend her time visiting the branch to no avail but I cant say that 
TSB had treated her unfairly in the process.
Mrs S has said that nobody from TSB had told her that they did not accept similar security 
settings as she had used previously. Im not persuaded that TSB were unreasonable in not 
mentioning this. I say this as the staff would not have access to her previous or attempted 
security details and they wouldnt be aware of what she was trying to enter as her new 
security details.
Ive noted the strength of feelings Mrs S has regarding the time its taken to resolve her 
issue. But as TSB hadnt had any contact from Mrs S until months after theyd sent the 
original response to her, I cant say there was unnecessary errors that TSB made which 
resulted in more time being taken to resolve the situation. I say this as when Mrs S visited 
the branch in January 2020, the problem was resolved in a week. TSB explained in a phone 
call they had with Mrs S that there were two ways to send a one time passcode to her. 
So as Mrs S was only able to register a mobile number months after she reported the issue 
this is why it took a long time to de-register and re-register her from digital banking. So while 
Mrs S may not agree, I cant say it took TSB an unreasonable amount of time to resolve her 
issue and I am satisfied they did send letters to her for the reasons Ive already given above. 
So it follows I wont be asking TSB to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman