DRN-4063218
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) and the service 
they provided after she made a claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B held a home insurance policy, underwritten by LV. This policy included optional Home 
Emergency (HE) cover. Unfortunately, on 22 September 2022, Mrs B discovered a leak 
coming from a tap at her property. So, she sought to claim on her HE cover to rectify the 
issue.
Mrs B says she wasnt aware LV had taken over her home insurance policy from another 
insurer. So, initially she called the previous provider of HE cover on that policy, who Ill refer 
to as A. Mrs B says she spent over an hour speaking to A, before she became aware she 
needed to contact LV instead.
Mrs B then contacted LV, who instructed an engineer to attend her property on the same 
day. The engineer isolated the leaking tap, and restored water to the rest of the property. But 
Mrs B says the engineer didnt check the other taps in the property to ensure the water had 
been restored correctly. And when she did this herself, Mrs B says she was sprayed with hot 
water which caused her to drop her phone and damage it. Mrs B was unhappy about this, so 
she raised a complaint.
Mrs B didnt think LV had arranged for an engineer to attend in a quick enough amount of 
time, considering she was a single parent with a young child. And she was unhappy with the 
conduct of the attending engineer and their failure to ensure the water was safe around the 
rest of the house. So, she wanted to be compensated for the upset shed been caused, as 
well as the damage caused to her phone.
LV responded to the complaint and upheld it, initially offering £30 to resolve the complaint. 
But Mrs B was unhappy about this, and the fact the complaint had been closed without her 
agreement. LV reinvestigated Mrs Bs concerns and increased the offer of compensation to 
£200. Mrs B remained unhappy and so, she asked our service to continue with our 
investigation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised LV had 
accepted their service couldve been improved, so didnt dispute this. But they didnt think 
they could say LV should be responsible for the damage to Mrs Bs phone, or the 
inconvenience Mrs B was caused speaking to the provider of her previous HE cover. So, 
considering the above, our investigator thought the £200 LV had offered was a fair one and 
they didnt think LV needed to do anything more.
Mrs B didnt agree, providing extensive comments explaining why. This included, and is not 
limited to, her insistence that an engineer shouldve attended within two hours. And that the 
engineers failure to check the other taps before leaving had been dangerous, leading to the 
damage of her phone. Mrs B also raised concerns about the way LV handled her complaint 
and the email address they used to contact her.
Our investigator considered these comments, but their view remained unchanged. Mrs B 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs B. I appreciate it wouldve 
been distressing for Mrs B when she discovered a leak in her property. And I recognise Mrs 
B wouldve felt an urgency to ensure this leak was rectified, to prevent any further damage. 
So, as Mrs B doesnt feel as though LV attended her property as quick as she wouldve 
liked, I can understand why she would feel unfairly treated because of this. And I appreciate 
why Mrs B would assume the attending engineer would ensure her property and its water 
was safe. So, when the attending engineer left Mrs B to test this herself and this led to 
another issue, I can understand why Mrs B would hold LV responsible for the impact this 
had.
But for me to say LV should do something more than the £200 theyve already paid Mrs B; 
Id need to be satisfied that this offer failed to fairly compensate Mrs B for the errors they are 
responsible for. Or, that LV have failed to address additional issues that I feel they shouldve 
done. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise that, following our investigators view, 
Mrs B had raised concerns about the way LV handled her complaint and the email address 
they used to contact her during this time. But this isnt something Im able to comment on, as 
complaints handling is an unregulated activity and so, outside of our services jurisdiction.
Im aware Mrs B is also unhappy with how long she spent on the phone with A before calling 
LV. But LV hold no responsibility over the length of time A took to answer Mrs Bs call or 
provide her with the information she needed. So, this isnt something Ive thought about any 
further.
I also recognise that LV received Mrs Bs contact details when they took over the insurance 
policy from Mrs Bs previous insurer. It wouldve been Mrs Bs previous insurers 
responsibility to ensure the details sent to LV were correct. And Ive seen no evidence to 
show Mrs B made LV aware of the need for her email address to be changed before she 
raised a complaint with LV. So again, I havent considered this any further.
Instead, Ive focused on the main area of dispute that does fall under our services remit to 
decide upon. And this centres around LVs handling of Mrs Bs HE claim.
I can see its not disputed by Mrs B that LV arranged for an engineer to attend her property 
on the same day she made the claim. And its not disputed that the attending engineer 
rectified the initial leak claimed for, by isolating the leaking tap. 
But Mrs B has explained her belief that LV failed to arrange a repair in a reasonable amount 
of time, believing an engineer shouldve arrived within two hours. But I disagree here. Ive 
seen nothing in the policy documents that set an expectation of a two-hour attendance. And its standard industry practice for HE policies to aim for an attendance within 24 hours of a 
claim being reported, which LV have met on this occasion.
While I do appreciate Mrs Bs individual circumstance as a single parent with a young child, I 
do think LV have acted both fairly and reasonably by ensuring the leak reported was 
repaired within five hours. And, that this repair left Mrs B with access to running water. So, I 
dont think I can say LV did anything wrong regarding the time it took for a repair to be 
completed.
But I think its accepted by LV that the service their engineer provided on the attendance 
couldve been improved. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs Bs testimony regarding the 
attendance is in dispute and so, I think its reasonable to assume Mrs Bs version of events 
is an accurate one. And I wouldve expected the attending engineer to ensure the water had 
been reinstated, rather than leaving Mrs B to test this herself.
As the engineer didnt do this, Mrs B was left alone to test the taps and I dont dispute Mrs 
Bs testimony that when she initially turned the other taps on, she was sprayed with hot 
water which Ive no doubt wouldve been frightening and shocking. And I do think LV should 
compensate Mrs B for this.
LV have offered, and from what I can ascertain paid, Mrs B £200 to recognise this shock and 
upset. And I think this offer is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what 
I wouldve directed had it not already been made. I think it fairly compensates Mrs B for the 
upset shes been caused by LVs engineers service failings. But I also think it fairly takes 
into account the efficient time in which LV arranged a repair to Mrs Bs leak. So, I dont think 
LV need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs B was hoping for. And I appreciate the £200 LV have 
paid doesnt directly address the damage she feels was caused to her phone when she 
dropped it after being sprayed with hot water. But Ive seen no evidence to show the damage 
to Mrs Bs phone. Nor can I see this evidence has been provided to LV. And even if 
evidence of the damage had been provided, I dont think there would be any reasonable way 
of LV knowing for sure that the damage was caused directly due to spray of water. So, I 
dont think I can say B should compensate Mrs B for this damage on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman