DRN-2926365
The complaint
Mr L complains about problems he had when trying to withdraw cash from his Lloyds Bank 
PLC account. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr L tried to make some withdrawals from a cash machine. One of these 
was a requested withdrawal for £90. When Mr L made the request, his card was returned to 
him and it looked like the transaction had been unsuccessful. He waited to see if the money 
would be dispensed, but when it wasnt, he went inside a branch of Lloyds to ask about this.
Lloyds told Mr L that its records showed the relevant amount had been dispensed, so it 
didnt refund this to him. Mr L complained to Lloyds about this but it didnt change its position 
and maintained it hadnt made an error. Mr L remained unhappy so he brought his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator looked into this and they asked Lloyds for more information about the 
machine that Mr L used that day. Lloyds explained that there were two attempts to withdraw 
£90 on the day in question. There was a problem with the first transaction which resulted in 
Mr L not receiving the cash. But Lloyds records showed this was corrected. 
The second transaction showed the £90 being dispensed in the usual way. But in light of the 
problems with the machine that day, Lloyds explained that it already agreed to refund Mr L 
the £90 in question.
Our investigator put this to Mr L, who hadnt noticed, but also felt that Lloyds should 
compensate him for the impact this had. He said he was late paying a council tax bill and 
was charged £25 for this. He felt that an amount of £150 would be reasonable. Our 
investigator felt that instead - £50 would be fair. He asked Lloyds if itd be willing to pay this, 
along with 8% interest on the disputed £90 and it agreed.
Mr L didnt think this went far enough though. He explained more about his situation and 
stressed how important this money is to him. He also told our investigator that he had to go 
into branch unnecessarily to try and sort the matter out. So the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, the starting point here is that Lloyds has now refunded Mr L the value of the 
transaction in question. I think that was a helpful and fair thing to do as. I say this as Lloyds 
has investigated the situation with the machine in question. Having done so, it says there are 
no records to show that the second transaction didnt actually dispense the money correctly. 
But it has accepted there were other problems with the machine that day and in light of this, 
refunded Mr L.
So all that is left for me to decide is whether the compensation Lloyds has offered is fair in 
the circumstances. Mr L feels very strongly that £50 isnt enough and he has explained why 
that is. Ive considered everything hes told us, but I do think that £50 is fair here.
In saying this, Ive considered that it must have been confusing and frustrating if Mr L didnt 
receive the money as he expected. He then had to go into the branch, which would have 
been inconvenient. Ive also seen that there were a lot of discussions between Mr L and 
Lloyds about what happened that day. After this point  there were then a fair number of 
conversations and exchanges between Mr L and Lloyds about the situation.
All of this is set against the context of the health conditions and personal circumstances that 
Mr L has told this service about. So its clear this would have had an impact and that the 
issue will have caused Mr L some worry and frustration. But in my view £50 is a fair and 
proportionate amount to reflect this impact, alongside Lloyds taking the pragmatic step of 
refunding the £90 here.
Our investigator also recommended that Lloyds pays Mr L 8% interest on the £90, to reflect 
that he has been without this. Lloyds agreed with this and I think this is fair too  as it reflects 
the fact that Mr L has been without that money for a period of time.
Mr L has said that being without this money meant that he couldnt pay a council tax bill. He 
hasnt provided any evidence to show that he has incurred any charges as a result of 
missing the council tax bill here and so it wouldnt be fair, impartially, for me to say that 
Lloyds should be held liable for a cost where theres no evidence of it. 
Mr L has also said that he was without food for a period of time. His statements, just for this 
account, show that the £90 in question here was temporarily refunded back to him while 
Lloyds looked into this. This amount was then debited from his account again in October 
2020. 
But either side of this, Mr L had made some fairly large withdrawals from his account, in line 
with his usual pattern of activity on the account. While the account was then put into 
overdraft for a short period of time as a result of the £90 being debited  it doesnt clearly 
look like Mr L was without money during this time. And as our investigator noted, if this 
money was earmarked for a council tax bill in the way Mr L says, then its not clear that this 
money was also intended to pay for food, based on what Mr L has told us.
None of what Ive said here is meant to underestimate the impact that Mr L says this had on 
him. But I hope hell understand that, as an impartial service, we have to look at both sides 
of every dispute that is referred to us. And that means that we have to consider the evidence 
thats provided and reach our own independent view of whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of a complaint.
So while Mr L strongly feels that Lloyds should pay him more compensation, Im satisfied 
that what our investigator has suggested and what Lloyds has agreed to pay is fair. So its 
this Ill be telling Lloyds it needs to do. 
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr L:
£50 for the distress and inconvenience caused8% on the £90 in question to reflect the time hes been without this money
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman