DRN-2219926
The complaint
This complaint is about HSBC UK Bank Plc not actioning Mrs Ms standing order 
instruction on her mothers account (Mrs W). Mrs M has power of attorney (along with 
her sister) for Mrs W. As the standing order instruction wasnt actioned Mrs Ws care 
home account went into arrears. Mrs M says that HSBC should be liable for the arrears.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs M has explained that the standing order on her mothers account needed to be 
amended and she called HSBC to make the change in May 2018. She says she 
often uses telephone banking and noted a recent change she has made through this 
process. Unfortunately, HSBC hasnt been able to provide any call recordings or 
notes from this time. So, while I understand the points Mrs M has made, without 
further evidence of what was discussed on the call in 2018, I do not find I can 
comment further on this.
Mrs M said that because of previous issues she had experienced she also completed 
a form to make the required change and took this to the branch in 2018. I have 
looked at the form Mrs M completed. This isnt a standard HSBC form and doesnt 
contain any account details. So, while I can see it has Mrs Ms name and signature 
and that of her sister, it doesnt have Mrs Ws account details on which the standing 
order would be set up. Given this I do not find that this form would have been enough 
for HSBC to act.
Mrs M says that given the information contained in the form she completed HSBC 
should have contacted her for any further details it needed. I understand the point 
she has made but in this case I do not find I have enough to say that HSBC should 
have taken further action. I have nothing to show that Mrs M discussed the form in 
the branch, and I note that a copy hadnt been retained. Without further evidence I do 
not find I can say HSBC did anything wrong by not taking further action based on the 
form.
Mrs M has explained her health situation and I can understand why this meant she 
may not have noticed the standing order wasnt set up as she had expected. I 
understand that this has been very upsetting for Mrs M however, as the fees were 
due from Mrs Ws account and these werent paid, I do not find that HSBC is now 
liable for any arrears.
I appreciate Mrs M doesnt feel that she has been provided the service she should 
have been. But based on the evidence I have seen, I do not find that I have enough 
to say that HSBC has done anything wrong regarding its actions on Mrs Ws account.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M, on behalf 
of Mrs W, to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman