DRN-1689130
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
personal loan in 2007. Mr E says Black Horse Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Black Horse had to make it clear to Mr E that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr E has said the PPI was added without his knowledge.
Black Horse has sent us a copy of the loan agreement for Mr Es loan. This described the 
PPI as optional several times as well as setting out how much the PPI would cost and how 
much interest would be charged on it. There was also a section for Mr E to sign to say he 
understood he was purchasing the PPI, separate from where Mr E signed for the loan itself. 
And Mr E signed for the PPI.
Based on this, I think Black Horse did make it clear to Mr E that he had a choice about the 
PPI, and that Mr E chose to take it knowing he didnt have to.
Black Horse also had to give Mr E clear information about the PPI, so he could decide if it 
was right for him. And its possible some of the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of Mr Es circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So the policy 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. I also havent seen any clear 
evidence that the policy was unaffordable for Mr E at the time it was sold. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put Mr E off taking it out.
Mr E has said he was a boxer so often had to take time off work as a result of this and he 
doesnt think the PPI wouldve covered him for this. But the PPI was to cover more long-term 
absences from work due to accident or sickness and involuntary unemployment. So I dont 
think the policy not covering any time off work as a result of Mr Es boxing meant the policy 
couldnt be useful to him.
Mr E has also said he had indefinite sick pay from his employer and had enough savings to 
pay off the loan, so he didnt need the PPI. But he hasnt been able to send us any proof he 
was entitled to this sick pay and, as this would be a very unusual amount, I dont think it 
would be reasonable for us to rely on Mr E having this amount of sick pay. And Black 
Horses records show Mr E missed a number of payments towards the loan and the 
outstanding balance was ultimately written off more than 18 months after it should have 
been paid. And I dont think Mr E wouldve missed these payments or allowed the debt to carry on for so long if he had enough savings to pay the loan off. So I dont think theres 
enough evidence to say Mr E didnt need the PPI.
Which means Black Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
Black Horse got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because Black Horse didnt 
tell Mr E, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black Horse Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Black Horse Limited does have to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman