DRN-3760501
The complaint
R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly altered the terms of a loan agreement it 
had with them.
R is represented in bringing this complaint by its director, Mrs F.
What happened
R took out a commercial mortgage with Barclays in 2016. At the time, there were 
discussions between Mrs F and Rs business manager at Barclays about the agreement 
starting with a five-year facility, despite the facility being calculated on the basis of a 15-year 
amortisation profile for the purpose of reducing the cost of the credit. 
Mrs F entered into a five-year agreement with Barclays on behalf of R. The facility letter was 
signed and accepted by Mrs F on 31 October 2016.
After the five-year period ended, Barclays told Mrs F that a review of Rs finances and a 
further application were needed. Mrs F provided the information requested and following the 
review, Barclays agreed to renew the facility with different terms being offered to R including 
a higher interest rate, early repayment charges and a further arrangement fee.
In early 2022, Mrs F complained to Barclays about the changes to the terms of the 
agreement. Barclays agreed there had been some confusion caused by the way the 
relationship manager had explained the arrangement to Mrs F, but they disagreed that the 
loan had been mis sold. 
Barclays said the facility letter didnt say the facility would be renewed on the same terms 
and that it was ultimately Rs responsibility to make arrangements for the balance to be 
repaid, or to apply for a new deal with Barclays at the end of the five-year term.
Barclays explained they were willing to offer a new five-year facility on a variable interest 
rate which would include an arrangement fee of £223.35. However, they said they were 
willing to waive this fee if R proceeded with the new facility with Barclays.
In closing, Barclays said the complaint wasn't being upheld on how the facility had operated, 
or how the renewal had been handled, but they wanted to offer £100 to R in 
acknowledgement of any confusion the email sent by the relationship manager in the early 
stage of the negotiations had caused.
Mrs F was unhappy with this response, so she brought Rs complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think the loan had been mis sold but he 
agreed that the information given to R by Barclays had been misleading. He thought 
Barclays should increase the compensation to £300 as R had declined to enter into a new 
agreement with Barclays and as such hadnt benefitted from the waived fees.
Barclays accepted our investigators view, but Mrs F asked for a decision, so the case was 
passed to me. 
I contacted both parties in an attempt to resolve the matter informally. I said:
At present I am minded to uphold the complaint and ask Barclays to increase the total 
amount of compensation to £500. I appreciate this may not be the resolution you were 
hoping for, but Ive explained my reasons below.
I agree that the emails sent to you by the relationship manager when you were initially 
applying for the loan were misleading. However, I dont agree that the loan was mis-sold. 
Those emails were sent during the negotiation stage of the process, but the legally binding 
document involved is the facility letter which you signed and accepted on behalf of R on 31 
October 2016.
We would normally expect that legal advice wouldve been taken by the limited company 
before signing the contract with the bank, so although you raised issues about the five-year 
term during the negotiation stage, I cant see that there was any further concerns raised 
about the five year term at the time of signing the facility letter and entering into a contract 
with Barclays.
The special conditions of this loan, detailed in the facility letter, explain that it is a five-year 
facility that had been calculated on the basis of a 15-year amortisation profile. It explains that 
there will be 59 fixed instalments followed by a final instalment sufficient to repay the loan in 
full.
This doesnt mean that the facility was for 15 years but rather than the cost of lending had 
been calculated in this way to keep the costs down for both R and the bank.
Although financial institutions offer loans over different terms, there is usually a review built 
into the process to protect both themselves and their customer from changing 
circumstances. I understand your frustration that Barclays undertook a review at the end of 
the five-year period, but this wouldnt be unusual, and the facility letter was quite clearly for 
five years.
I can see that Barclays did offer a new facility to R but on less favourable terms and you 
have pointed out that the company remained in profit despite the pandemic and had made 
all the repayments on time and in full. I appreciate this was not the offer R were expecting, 
but many different factors affect the decision of the lender and not just the current 
performance of a company. It is likely that the unprecedented impact of the pandemic will 
also have affected the risk appetite of many lenders.
Ultimately, Barclays are entitled to make a commercial decision about who they lend to and 
what the terms of the agreement are, and I dont have the power to dictate to them what 
those terms should be. So, I cant say that they have done anything wrong by changing the 
terms of the lending at the review stage.
However, I can see there was some poor communication from Barclays during the 
negotiation stage of the lending process and there is no doubt that this caused 
inconvenience to R after the initial five years.
As the complaint is being brought on behalf of a limited company, I am unable to consider an 
award for distress as the company itself cannot be distressed, so I can only award 
compensation for inconvenience that has occurred. And in this case, I think £500 is a fair 
reflection of the inconvenience caused to R.
Barclays accepted my recommendation to increase the compensation to £500. However, 
Mrs F asked for a final response. Although no further evidence was provided by either party, Mrs F commented that she wouldnt have signed the documents had she not been led to 
believe that the mortgage would continue for a further ten years on the same terms.
She also said that the cost of lending was totally mis-represented, as it was communicated 
to her that the reason Barclays were doing it over the five years was because it would be 
cheaper to do it that way. However, she then found that additional fees would have been 
payable every five years which were not part of her understanding of the original agreement.
Mrs F would like Barclays to refund two thirds of the fees paid by R over the five-year term 
and pay compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already given my provisional thoughts on the matter and Ive not seen anything from 
either party that has made me change my mind. However, I would like to address the points 
that Mrs F made in response to my provisional decision in more detail.
Mrs F said she would not have signed the facility letter had she not been led to believe that 
the mortgage wouldve continued after the five-year period on the same terms.
I can see Mrs Fs point here. There is no dispute that the emails were misleading. However, 
in the email of 15 September 2016, Barclays say a letter of variation would be issued 
providing you are happy and we are with performanceto extend the term to match the 
amortisation profile. This indicates that a review of some description would be conducted at 
the end of the five-year period, but Barclays shouldve been more specific about the 
implications this might have for R - particularly in their follow up emails.
The facility letter that Mrs F signed on behalf of R clearly indicated the term of the lending. 
There is nothing in this document to suggest the lending was guaranteed to continue at the 
end of the five-year term. As Ive said above, the earlier emails allude to the fact that a 
review would take place towards the end of the five-year period to ensure all parties were 
happy with the performance of the loan. When this review did take place, for various 
reasons, Barclays decided not to issue a letter of variation This was a commercial decision 
and I can see in an email dated 31 December 2021, Barclays have raised some concerns 
and asked for additional information about Rs performance. 
As I mentioned, I would usually expect to see a review in circumstances similar to the 
lending that was agreed with R. A responsible lender should be taking the time to review the 
terms of an agreement at timely intervals for the protection of all involved parties. Both 
personal and economic factors can change quickly and unexpectedly, as we saw in the case 
of the recent pandemic, so I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when they reviewed the 
lending after five years.
Following the review, Barclays agreed to extend the loan on new terms which, based on the 
circumstances at that time, seem fair and reasonable to me - apart from the arrangement 
fee. However, Barclays had agreed to waive this before R wouldve signed the new facility 
letter, so this is not a cost R wouldve incurred had it decided to stay with Barclays.
Mrs F also said that the cost of lending was totally mis-represented, as it was communicated 
to her that the reason Barclays were doing it over the five years was because it would be 
cheaper  to do it that way. However, she then found, that additional fees would have been 
payable every five years.Having reviewed the agreement, I can see that the main fee associated with the lending was 
the arrangement fee. This was 1.5% of the cost of the total lending, so I agree with Mrs F 
that R should not have had to pay a further arrangement fee after the five-year review. 
During the negotiations with Barclays in 2021, they did agree to waive this fee so had R 
remained with Barclays, this wouldnt have impacted R. 
I know that Mrs F would like Barclays to refund two thirds of the fees R paid as R only had 
the benefit of the loan for five of the fifteen years. I can understand why Mrs F feels that way 
however its not that straight forward. The cost of lending had been calculated over a 15-year 
period to keep the costs down for both R and the bank. R had the benefit of a reduced cost 
of lending during the initial five-year period and this was reflected in a lower interest rate. 
Had R not paid the fees at the outset, the knock-on effect of a lower interest rate for that 
period would not have been possible. So, I therefore wont be asking Barclays to refund 
these fees.
Putting things right
Although I agree that the communications sent by Barclays to Mrs F in the negotiation stage 
did not clearly explain how the process would work, I havent found that the lending was mis-
sold or that the terms of the loan agreement were unfairly altered. 
However, I think Barclays should make a payment of £500 to R to apologise for their 
misleading communications and the inconvenience they caused for R.
To be clear, the award Im asking Barclays to make is to reflect the inconvenience this 
unexpected additional administration and negotiation had on R at the five-year point. It is not 
to reflect the fact that R went elsewhere for finance, as I think the offer Barclays made to R 
following these negotiations was fair and it was Rs choice to go elsewhere.
My final decision
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to make a payment of £500 to R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman