DRN-3976929
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aldermore Bank Plc has recorded adverse information on his credit file 
when he moved his mortgage payment date  despite telling him it would not affect his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr B has a mortgage with Aldermore.
On 28 December 2021, Mr B emailed Aldermore:
My next mortgage payment is due at the beginning of next month (January 2nd, 2022) and I 
wanted to enquire if I could possibly move the next payment date to the end of the month in 
January around the 26-28th please.
On 30 December 2021, Aldermore replied:
I called you today but you were driving and could not hear what I was saying so I thought it 
would be better to contact you by email.
We are not able to change the date for January but we can place the Direct Debit on hold so 
it does not collect, this means you will need to make a manual payment over the phone or 
bank transfer please see details below if you are happy with this
On 26 January 2022, Mr B phoned Aldermore. He said hed received a statement showing 
that his mortgage was in arrears. Aldermore explained that Mr B had not made the payment 
that was due in December 2021. Mr B said he thought hed agreed to move the payment 
date for December. Mr B made the January payment.
On 18 February 2021, Aldermore issued its final response. It said that as a gesture of 
goodwill it would not record any adverse information for the missed payment in December 
2021. But Mr B still needed to bring the account up to date.
In August 2022, when the arrears had not bene repaid and no agreement to repay them had 
been reached, Aldermore recorded the missed payment on Mr Bs credit file. Mr B considers 
that it was unfair for Aldermore to do so.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. She noted Aldermore had 
offered Mr B £100 for not replying to an email from him.
Mr B did not accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
Aldermore had admitted in writing that it had told him he could change his payment date 
to the end of January.
Aldermore said in writing that it would not record the missed payment with credit 
reference agencies.
He made a number of attempts to set up a payment arrangement  but Aldermore did 
not contact him as requested.
Hed requested that Aldermore should not contact him by phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the evidence we have, I cant see that Aldermore ever agreed to move the 
December 2021 payment date for Mr B. He asked to move his January payment to the end 
of the month and Aldermore agreed he could do that. 
Aldermore accepted that at that time it should have done more to tell Mr B that he had not 
made the December 2021 payment that was due. So it agreed not to record the missed 
payment for December 2021 on his credit file. But, in the same letter it also made clear that 
the December 2021 payment was outstanding, the account was in arrears and that Mr B 
needed to make a payment to bring it up to date. 
Aldermore has provided evidence that it wrote to Mr B about the arrears asking him to 
contact it to make an arrangement to clear the arrears. It has also shown that it attempted 
unsuccessfully to contact Mr B by phone several times during the period in question to 
discuss the arrears. I can see that Mr B spoke to Aldermore during that time about a 
potential repayment arrangement  but nothing was finalised and it was clear further action 
was required from Mr B. Im satisfied that Aldermore took reasonable steps to contact Mr B 
so that the arrears could be cleared or an arrangement made.
I accept that Aldermore told Mr B that it would not record the missed payment on Mr Bs 
credit file. In my experience that was a generous offer, bearing in mind that Aldermore had 
an obligation to record true and accurate information on Mr Bs credit file  and the true 
position was that the account was in arrears from December 2021. 
Aldermore acted in line with its offer, but I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable for it 
to continue not to record the arrears indefinitely when they remained unpaid and/or without a 
plan to repay them. So I think it was reasonable for it to record the arrears from August 
2022, bearing in mind that it had given Mr B a reasonable amount of time to contact it and 
arrange repayment of the arrears. The account was in arrears, so it was true reflection of 
how the account was conducted to record the arrears on Mr Bs credit file.
I note what Mr B has said about his communication preferences  and Aldermore accepts 
that it did not respond to his June 2022 request for a meeting. It has offered £100 for any 
upset caused to Mr B by that. But there is no evidence of any other requests. Ultimately, the 
onus was on Mr B to contact Aldermore and arrange to repay the arrears. Aldermore gave 
him plenty of time to do that. But when the arrears remained outstanding after more than six 
months, I dont see how I could reasonably find that Aldermore acted unfairly by recording 
the arrears on Mr Bs credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Mr B should contact Aldermore if he 
wishes to accept its offer of £100, if he has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman