DRN-2629108
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC withdrew the overdraft facilities on his three business 
accounts, contrary to a written agreement that it would not do so.
What happened
Mr D, a sole trader, has three business accounts with Lloyds. Each account had an overdraft 
facility, and each facility letter stated that it was to last for a year, with an annual review 
when it could be renewed, or not renewed. Mr D also had a business loan with Lloyds. All of 
this lending was secured on two properties (holiday homes) which Mr D owned and was 
letting. The rental income from the properties was used to make the loan repayments, which 
were kept up to date, but no credits were made to the business accounts, and in time Lloyds 
began to regard the overdrafts as persistent debt.
In or around January 2019, Lloyds withdrew the overdraft facilities and subsequently issued 
formal demands for the overdraft balances. Mr D complained that this contravened a written 
agreement, dated 19 May 2014, that Lloyds would not call in the overdrafts until the two 
properties they were secured on had first been sold. He asked for the overdrafts to be 
reinstated, and for any charges he had incurred to be refunded or cancelled.
Lloyds said that it was only following its lending criteria, and that it could not make 
exceptions in individual cases. It said it was acting fairly, and that it had terminated the 
overdrafts because no credits had been made to the accounts for a long time.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr D brought this complaint to our Service. Lloyds did 
not accept that the 2014 agreement meant that it had to renew the overdraft facilities every 
year.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He agreed with Mr D that the 2014 agreement 
said that the overdrafts did not have to be repaid until the properties had been resold. But he 
thought that Lloyds duty to lend responsibly was paramount. One of the accounts had been 
overdrawn at close to the overdraft limit for several years, and no payments had been made 
to any of the accounts to reduce their overdraft balances. He concluded that Lloyds had 
acted reasonably, given its concerns about the level and affordability of Mr Ds debts.
Mr D did not accept that opinion. He said that Lloyds should be held to the 2014 agreement, 
and he wanted to know if there was a legal reason why it should not. He recognised that the 
terms and conditions of the overdraft facilities said that they would be reviewed annually and 
that the overdrafts could be called in at any time, but he said that these general clauses 
were subject to the specific terms of the 2014 agreement, which overrode them. He asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The two properties were managed on Mr Ds behalf by a third party. Mr D had an agreement 
with that person (independently of the bank) that he would sell the properties within the next 
ten years, and that the property manager would have the first option to buy them. Mr D 
intended to use the proceeds of the sales to pay off the overdrafts and whatever was left of 
the business loan (which had a term of ten years). Since the properties would not 
necessarily be sold at the same time, and it was not known which would be sold first, and 
since the manager would wish to acquire them with clear title, Mr D wanted to ensure that 
his borrowing would not continue to be secured on whichever property was sold first.
To that end, Mr D raised this concern with Lloyds, and that discussion resulted in the May 
2014 agreement. This agreement is in the form of a letter from Lloyds to Mr D, which sets 
out three amendments to the business loan agreement; the third one is the relevant clause. 
It is very poorly drafted, but Lloyds does not dispute that it says that when the first property is 
sold, it must release it from the security for Mr Ds borrowing, without Mr D having to reduce 
his indebtedness to the bank. The only dispute is whether this clause also prevents Lloyds 
from terminating the overdraft facilities before the properties have both been sold.
The clause reads as follows. (To preserve Mr Ds anonymity, I have redacted the name of 
his property manager and the addresses of the properties.) Lloyds undertook:
to release all of the banks' security, without any then prepayment of the loan or your 
business overdrafts, without and notwithstanding other provisions hereof any 
shortening of their terms, only on the earlier of the completion of the September 17, 
2013 agreed option or put with the manager, [managers name], on [address] and 
[address] but to retain such security only on, and until the completion of, the other of 
them and to so release it on the completion of the other of them.
That is not a model of clarity, but I am satisfied that it does say that on the sale of the first 
property, Lloyds is obliged to release its security on the sold property, without any condition 
precedent that Mr D must pay back any part of the loan or the overdrafts. It goes on to say 
that when the second property is sold, the security on that property must be released also, 
again unconditionally. The question is whether it also says (either expressly or by necessary 
implication) that Mr D did not have to make any payments towards the loan and overdrafts 
until after the properties had been sold. And I do not agree that it really does go as far as 
that.
The loan had to be repaid over 120 monthly instalments, and none of these have been 
missed so far. So I think its clear that the parties did not think that the clause I have quoted 
above meant that no loan repayments would fall due until both properties were sold. But in 
case Mr D did think that, and thinks that he was only making those payments voluntarily, 
I will not rely on that point as the only reason for finding against him on the interpretation of 
that clause.
On examining the text, I can find nothing which says that Lloyds was prohibited from 
terminating the overdraft facilities, and nothing which says that Lloyds was required to renew 
them each year. This clause is only about releasing the securities. I think that the words 
without any then prepayment of the loan or your business overdrafts, without  any 
shortening of their terms just means that Lloyds has to release its security over a property 
when it is sold, without requiring Mr D to repay anything as a condition of doing so. The text 
does not go so far as to say that Lloyds has to keep renewing the overdraft facilities each year until the properties are sold, nor does that follow by implication or as a necessary 
consequence of this clause.
I am reinforced in that finding by the fact if Lloyds had guaranteed that no payments into the 
overdrawn accounts were necessary, that the overdraft facilities would always be renewed, 
and that they could never be terminated, until the properties were sold at some as yet 
unknown date years in the future, then this would have been entirely contrary to how 
overdrafts are supposed to work. That does not mean that Lloyds could never give such a 
guarantee in a contract if it wanted to, but it would be very surprising if it did, and if it had 
really meant to agree that Mr D did not need to make any payments until the properties were 
sold, then it would not have chosen three overdrafts as the way to lend to him, but some 
other kind of credit instead.
It follows that Lloyds was entitled to review the overdrafts and to decide not to renew them, 
in accordance with its usual lending criteria.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman