DRN-2170773
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with her 
chargeback.
What happened
Mrs H asked Halifax to raise a chargeback for just over £100 for a number of visa 
applications that were made via a company I will call V. She says the applications were 
made prior to a holiday to Egypt but she had numerous problems with the application 
process. Mrs H in summary says V rejected the applications but didnt provide any support 
or help in re-submitting them. She says she was forced to buy the Visas on arrival in Egypt 
and has paid twice for them. Mrs H says she asked Halifax to raise a chargeback, but it re-
debited the money which she says is unfair.
Halifax says it raised a chargeback and refunded the money whilst it investigated the claim. 
It says it told Mrs H that there was the possibility of the money being re-debited. Halifax says 
the merchant defended the chargeback and provided evidence which it says meant it 
couldnt continue with the chargeback. In summary it says the terms and conditions said the 
money was not refundable and it had no right to challenge the response under the 
chargeback rules.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained the chargeback rules and didnt think Halifax acted unfairly by concluding it 
couldnt proceed with it. The investigator also thought Halifax had explained that there was a 
possibility of the money being re-debited and thought Mrs H had bought the new visas 
before the expiry for V to provide them.
Mrs H doesnt accept that view and says V is a scam company and doesnt provide 
information about how to submit acceptable information or photos and says she cant go 
back and find the information she submitted as V has deleted it. She would like her money 
back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Halifax has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate that Mrs H will be disappointed by my 
decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about what has taken place. I make clear 
that I cant comment on the actions of V but only about how Halifax has dealt with her 
chargeback request.
A chargeback is not a legal right, but a voluntary scheme run by the card providers and not 
as in this case by Halifax. That means that Halifax isnt responsible for the chargeback rules 
and there isnt any guarantee that a chargeback will be successful. Im satisfied that 
following the dispute between Mrs H and V that Halifax raised a chargeback and paid the 
disputed amount into her account but also told her that there was the possibility that money 
would be re-debited.
I can see that V defended the chargeback and provided evidence that the contract between 
it and Mrs H meant that any payments were non-refundable and that it had asked for clearer 
copies of passport photographs which she hadnt provided. I appreciate what Mrs H says 
about that process and the lack of help from V. But that isnt the issue I need to consider 
here. I must consider if Halifax acted fairly and reasonably by concluding that it couldnt do 
anything further to help Mrs H under the chargeback rules.
I have looked carefully at the evidence Halifax was given and Im satisfied that it acted fairly 
and reasonably by concluding there was little else it could do to help Mrs H. I think V 
provided evidence and defended the chargeback and that Halifax reasonably concluded that 
under the scheme rules it could no longer peruse the chargeback. I dont think it matters that 
Mrs H disputed that information or that in her view V had acted unfairly. That isnt the test I 
have to consider.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax tried to help Mrs H. Im also satisfied that Mrs Hs dispute here 
is with V and how it treated her. I dont think for the reasons I have explained that Halifax 
could have done any more to help Mrs H and acted reasonably by re-debiting the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman