DRN-1592675
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps representative, a claims management company (CMC), have complained 
about the investment advice they were given by Santander UK Plc (SUK).  They had 
invested in numerous SUK financial products over a period of many years.
The CMC claims that: the risks were too high and inappropriate for Mr and Mrs Ps financial 
circumstances; the sales were made without taking into consideration the clients risk 
appetite, and; they were sold inappropriate products, which were outside of the protection of 
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
 What happened
Over a period of nearly 18 years from the first investment to the final pay out date, Mr and 
Mrs P had invested in a number of SUK products, including Individual Savings Accounts 
(ISA), Personal Equity Plans (PEP), Direct Share Funds, Open Ended Investment 
Companies (OEIC) and a Managed Bond Fund.  
None of the investments were loss making, and Mr and Mrs P had reinvested their money 
into new SUK products at maturity on a number of occasions.
Around three years after the maturity of their last investment, Mr and Mrs Ps representative 
complained to the bank that the risk level had been inappropriate for their circumstances, 
that SUK hadnt found out about their attitude to risk, and that they were sold inappropriate 
products that were not covered by the FSCS.
SUK responded to the complaint, saying that they would have been provided with various 
documents at the time for each investment, including a fact find, suitability letter, key 
features documents, and term sheets for structured investment PEPs and ISAs.
SUK also provided the names of advisers they met in their branch meetings, who would 
have completed a fact find which included information on their employment status, financial 
circumstances, assets, liabilities, future needs, and their future aims and objectives.
Responding to the complaint that 12 years after the first investment and when Mr and Mrs P 
were nearing retirement, SUK had been wrong to advise them to increase their exposure to 
equities, they said that the product was considered very low risk - protecting capital and a 
minimum return guaranteed - and therefore appropriate for customers approaching 
retirement age.
The bank also said that whilst they had invested in structured products which do not benefit 
from the FSCS, these products were designed to be capital protected, and that Mr and Mrs 
P, who had investment experience, were not overexposed to structured products in their 
view.The CMC was not happy with the response, and so brought the complaint to our service, 
where one of our investigators looked into it.  They were off the opinion that SUK had done 
nothing wrong. Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with this, and so it passed to me.
In rejecting the investigators opinion, the CMC highlighted the issue of structured products 
and the lack of FSCS protection, saying that Mr and Mrs P were not aware that they were 
not protected by the scheme, and that it was irrelevant that SUK had not become insolvent - 
they should have been made aware of the risk in order for them to make an informed 
decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, and I will explain why.
Ill start by saying that I understand that this complaint is not about the performance of the 
investments that Mr and Mrs P had made following advice from SUK, but rather that they 
had not taken enough care in recommending the various funds over the years.
I have seen that unfortunately, SUK was unable to provide all of the point of sale documents 
(such as fact finds, suitability reports and risk tolerance questionnaires), but this is perhaps 
understandable, given that many of them were made a long time ago and they are only 
required to maintain records such as these for six years.
SUK did provide documents from around two years after the first investment, however, 
recording their circumstances and attitude to risk at that time.  I also agree with the 
investigators view that, over the years, their portfolio looked reasonably balanced, with the 
investments consistently and gradually moving lower in terms of risk over time.
Near the end of the period, and nearing retirement, Mr and Mrs P invested in a Guaranteed 
Return and Guaranteed Growth Plan.  These structured products are designed to protect 
capital in the instance of the value of the underlying securities falling over the period of the 
plan, and also guaranteeing a minimum return.  This seems like a sensible decision for them 
to have made at the time, however, the CMC has complained that these products do not 
benefit from the FSCS.
Looking at the Key Features of Portfolio Investments and the Investments ISA available at 
the time provided by SUK, it is not clear to me whether or not the investments would have 
been covered by the FSCS, however, it is clear to me that this was a potential risk. Page 11 
of the document has the following disclaimer:
Compensation
FSCS cover depends on the nature of the claim being made. In general terms, FSCS 
cover is not available on claims for loss of value resulting just from the poor 
performance of investments. However, cover may be available for claims against 
authorised firms for loss arising from bad investment advice, poor investment 
management or misrepresentation.
In the unlikely event that Santander ISA Managers Limited and/or Santander UK plc 
becomes insolvent and unable to meet their liabilities, claims arising against them in 
respect of the sale or management of your investment may be eligible for compensation from FSCS up to a maximum compensation limit of £50,000 per person 
depending on the type of investment and the circumstances of the claim.
For any claim made to the FSCS, whatever the product type, it will ultimately be the 
FSCSs decision whether to cover that claim depending on the particular 
circumstances of the case.
It may have been unknown as to whether the investment was covered at the time, as in 
order to find out, SUK would have had to have been insolvent, and the FSCS would then 
decide.  Whilst it is considered safe to assume that cash in personal bank accounts would 
have been covered by the scheme, there may be reasons why it was unclear in this case, or 
in any non-cash investment fund.  There is no need for me to speculate on this, however, 
because it is clear to me that the potential risk, however small, was noted in the key 
documents, which Mr and Mrs P would have seen, and Ive not seen any evidence of, and 
no complaint has been made about Mr and Mrs P being misled on this point by SUK.
Whilst this is not the outcome Mr and Mrs P would have liked, it is my opinion that SUK has 
acted in a reasonable and fair manner in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Christian Holder
Ombudsman