DRN-4270209
The complaint
Mrs M complains that ReAssure Limited failed to transfer her pension savings into a new 
Retirement Account in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what ReAssure needed to do in order to 
put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mrs M holds pension savings with ReAssure. She says that, in late 2021, she started 
to become concerned about falls in the value of her pension savings. So in early 
2022 Mrs M says that she decided she wished to transfer her pension savings into a 
lower risk retirement account.
Mrs M says that she called ReAssure during the week commencing 24 January 2022 
in order to start that transfer. She says that she was told during the call that 
ReAssure would need to send her its Options pack, as she hadnt received it in the 
previous six months. ReAssure says that it has no records of this call being made, or 
any discussions with Mrs M around that time.
Mrs M didnt receive the information that she says ReAssure had agreed to send. So, 
increasingly concerned about the fall in value of her pension savings, Mrs M decided 
to make the transfer application regardless. ReAssure says that it received that 
application from Mrs M on 1 February.
On 8 February Mrs M called ReAssure to check that her application had been safely 
received. On that call, ReAssure confirmed receipt of the application, and told Mrs M 
that it could take up to 25 days for the processing to be completed. But it reassured 
Mrs M that the transferred value would be backdated to the day her application was 
received.
On 14 February ReAssure called Mrs M. It told her that it had started to process her 
transfer application but had noticed that she hadnt received a copy of the Options 
information in the past six months. It said without that document having been read by 
Mrs M it couldnt proceed with her application. Mrs M said she was aware of the 
document and that ReAssure had said it would send it to her on a call around three 
weeks before.
ReAssure agreed to email a copy of the Options document to Mrs M. She received 
and read it the same day, and called ReAssure to confirm she still wanted to proceed 
with her transfer application. ReAssure told Mrs M that date would now be used as 
the effective date of her application, and confirmed the value of her pension savings 
to her.
On 22 March Mrs M received details from ReAssure of the transfer that had been 
completed. The value of the transfer was lower than both the value quoted for 
1 February, and the value Mrs M had been given on 14 February. She complained to 
ReAssure about what had happened. ReAssure explained that it couldnt accept 
Mrs Ms application until she confirmed she had received and read the Options 
information. And it told her that the value of the transfer would be set at the close of 
business on the day her application was received. So the value shed been given on 
the call was only indicative, and the final transfer value couldnt have been known 
until the following day.
I think that the key aspect that underpins all of Mrs Ms complaint is the phone call 
that she says she made to ReAssure around 25 January 2022. She says that if 
ReAssure had done what it offered on that call, her application received on 
1 February would have been accepted, and the value of her transfer would have 
been higher. So I think the key matter for me to consider here is what happened, or 
what I think is most likely to have happened, around that time.
Mrs M has given us what appears to be her complete and honest testimony about 
her dealings with ReAssure. Her testimony has been consistent throughout, and 
I have been given no reason to doubt what she says. So on balance my conclusion is 
that it is most likely she did call ReAssure around 25 January to discuss the transfer 
of her pension savings to the Retirement Account product.
 
Ive listened carefully to the call that took place on 14 February. It was on that call 
that ReAssure told Mrs M it couldnt proceed without her having received the 
Options document in the previous six months. Mrs Ms instant reaction to that 
information was to say that she had made a call around three weeks before, and that 
ReAssure had failed to send the information at that time. She seemed very aware of 
the importance of the Options document  something I think shed only have been 
aware of if a previous discussion had taken place. And she repeated her assertions 
about the earlier call a number of times during that conversation. I think that strongly 
supports the testimony she has provided.
I accept that ReAssure says it has no record of the call from Mrs M. But I dont think 
that should lead me to a conclusion that the call didnt happen. There could be a 
number of reasons why the conversation, and Mrs Ms request for the transfer 
information, might not have been correctly logged against her pension policy. And, if 
that had happened, I think that would reasonably explain why no information was 
sent to Mrs M.
When Mrs M spoke with ReAssure on 14 February she was told that the Options 
information could be sent to her by email or by post. Mrs M asked for it to be sent by 
email as that would be quicker. I think it reasonable to conclude that the same offer 
could, and should, have been made to Mrs M when she called around 25 January. 
So I think it reasonable to conclude that she should have received the Options 
information on the same day as her initial call.
There was a short delay between the call that Mrs M says she originally made, and 
her completing the application form for the transfer. Potentially that delay might have 
been as a result of her waiting for the information ReAssure had said it would send to 
her. But it wouldnt seem unreasonable that the delay might have been for other 
reasons such as Mrs M finding and completing the necessary application form. So 
I dont think I should reasonably conclude Mrs Ms initial application was delayed by 
any failures on the part of ReAssure.So on balance, I currently think that ReAssure failed to provide the information it had 
agreed to send to Mrs M around 25 January. Had that information been sent then 
I think ReAssure would have considered Mrs Ms application form of 1 February to be 
valid, and her transfer would have been processed as at that date. So I think that 
ReAssures failures have delayed Mrs M's transfer by a period of two weeks, and 
ReAssure needs to establish whether that has caused Mrs M to lose out.
There is no doubt that these problems will have caused some disruption to Mrs Ms 
retirement plans, and caused her disappointment. I think the compensation of £150 
that our investigator recommended is reasonable in that regard.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mrs M and ReAssure have provided further comments. Although 
I am only summarising here what each have said, I want to reassure both parties that I have 
read, and carefully considered, their entire responses.
Mrs M says that she is happy with my provisional decision. She confirms that following her 
initial phone call with ReAssure she waited a few days for the Options pack to arrive. 
Following that she completed and sent the application form that ReAssure had told her could 
be found on its website as she didnt want any further delays to the transfer. Mrs M says 
that, given what has happened, she has some concerns whether ReAssure will correctly 
calculate the compensation that is due to her. 
ReAssure doesnt agree with my provisional findings. It says the provisional decision relies 
heavily on a phone call that there is no evidence of it receiving, let alone any details of what 
was discussed on the call. It suggests that its records should be better relied on as evidence 
than Mrs Ms recollections. It says that a middle road should be used whereby the call is not 
used as the basis for the outcome or redress calculation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also 
carefully considered the submissions that have been made by Mrs M and by ReAssure. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
And I repeat my reflections on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ive thought carefully about the comments made by ReAssure in response to my provisional 
decision. But having done so I am not persuaded that I should alter those provisional 
findings. I do however think it would be useful to provide some further reasoning about the 
matters it has raised in its response.It is clear that the phone call Mrs M says she made around 25 January is fundamental to my 
consideration of this complaint. I entirely accept that ReAssure has no record of that call 
being made, or what was discussed. But as I explained in my provisional decision that 
doesnt necessarily lead to a reasonable conclusion that the call didnt take place. And 
I dont think, as ReAssure suggests, that there is any middle ground here. I simply need to 
decide whether, on the balance of probability, I think that call was made by Mrs M.
Mrs Ms testimony is an important factor in my consideration of that point. As I have said, 
and ReAssure appears to accept, I have no reason whatsoever to doubt what she says 
about her making the call. And her understanding on the later call of the importance of the 
Options pack would suggest the discussion had taken place as she recalls. And Mrs Ms 
further testimony, in response to my provisional decision, explains the short period of time 
between her initial call and the submission of her transfer request. She says that she was 
simply waiting for the information ReAssure had said it would send  but ultimately she 
decided she could wait no longer and submitted her application that she had downloaded 
from ReAssures website as she had been instructed to do on the earlier call.
In matters such as these I can never be entirely sure what happened. That is why I am 
required to decide complaints on the balance of probability. Here I am persuaded that it is 
more likely that the call took place and failed to be correctly logged by ReAssure, than a 
conclusion that the call wasnt made. And if the call took place I think it most likely that 
Mrs M would have been told she would be sent a copy of the Options document for her 
consideration before her transfer could proceed.
So on balance, I think that ReAssure failed to provide the information it had agreed to send 
to Mrs M around 25 January. Had that information been sent then I think ReAssure would 
have considered Mrs Ms application form of 1 February to be valid, and her transfer would 
have been processed as at that date. So I think that ReAssures failures have delayed 
Mrs M's transfer by a period of two weeks, and ReAssure needs to establish whether that 
has caused Mrs M to lose out.
Putting things right
I think that, had nothing gone wrong, ReAssure would have accepted the transfer application 
it received from Mrs M on 1 February 2022. So ReAssure needs to calculate what the value 
of Mrs Ms pension transfer would have been if the application had been processed as at 
that date, rather than the 14 February date that was actually used.
If the value Mrs M actually received is lower than she would have received at the earlier 
date, Mrs M has lost out. ReAssure should pay her compensation equal to the difference 
between the values on the two relevant dates. ReAssure should add (or subtract) investment 
returns from that compensation in line with the performance of Mrs Ms remaining pension 
savings in her retirement account, from the day the transfer should have happened (14 days 
earlier than it did) to the date of this final decision. ReAssure should provide Mrs M with a 
clear and easily understandable calculation showing how it has derived the compensation 
amount
The compensation should be paid into Mrs Ms retirement account. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ReAssure is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs Ms retirement account, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Ms actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. I think that its reasonable to assume that Mrs M is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would 
equal 20%. However, as Mrs M would have been able to take an additional tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
As part of the transfer Mrs M took a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  often 
called tax free cash). It seems that the payment of that would also have been delayed by two 
weeks. So ReAssure should pay Mrs M 14 days simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum 
on the net PCLS amount. HM Revenue & Customs requires ReAssure to take off tax from 
this interest. ReAssure must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
he asks for one.
ReAssure should additionally pay Mrs M £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience she 
has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman