DRN-3347630
The complaint
Mr M is complaining that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) treated him unfairly when he 
wanted to end his hire purchase agreement with them.  
What happened
Both parties are aware of all the details here, so I wont go over them blow for blow again. 
Instead, Ill summarise whats happened. 
Mr M acquired a motorhome through a hire purchase agreement from Black Horse in June 
2018. The agreement was for 120 months, with payments of around £640 per month. 
In February 2021, Mr M contacted Black Horse and said hed been impacted financially by 
the Coronavirus pandemic and couldnt continue with the agreement. He said hed been 
offered £37,250 for the vehicle by a local dealer, but Black Horse said they wouldnt accept 
this in full settlement of the finance agreement and told him the required settlement figure at 
the time (which was close to £45,000). 
Mr M complained about this, and the service he received when trying to discuss this with 
Black Horse. They responded in April 2021. They didnt uphold his complaint about declining 
his offer of settlement, saying that they didnt accept what they call short settlements. 
They partially upheld his complaint about the service they provided to him. They apologised 
for unresponsive service at times when he was trying to speak to them about the early 
settlement and raise a complaint about how they were dealing with him. They offered a 
payment of £75 for this. 
They also explained in their final response letter how settlement figures were generated, and 
how Mr M could obtain up to date settlement figures. 
During this period, and in the following weeks into May 2021, Mr M contacted the business 
several times both on the phone and in writing, to discuss this further, and to make further 
offers of settlement when he was offered more money for the vehicle. I can see that the 
account was settled in mid-May 2021.  Mr M has told us that this came through a sale of the 
vehicle for £44,500, and that he had to come up with an additional £1309.92 to fully settle 
the account. 
Mr M was unhappy with the response from Black Horse to his complaint, so he brought the 
complaint to us in April 2021. He said that Black Horse hadnt dealt with him fairly in light of 
the Coronavirus pandemic and their responsibilities to treat customers fairly. He is 
particularly upset at the way they have declined his offers for settlement, feeling that hes 
been told repeatedly by staff that they arent allowed to accept shortfall settlements, rather 
than any explanation why. 
An investigator here investigated the case and did not uphold the complaint. They felt that 
there was nothing unfair that Black Horse had done in dealing with his requests to settle the 
agreement, and that Black Horses offer of £75 for their service failings was fair. 
Mr M didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an Ombudsman to review the case and 
make a final decision. He provided us with detailed testimony explaining where he felt Black 
Horse hadnt explained things properly or made fair decisions, and he also felt it was unfair 
that in the 3-4 months between his first request to settle the agreement and the settlement in 
May 2021, the figure Black Horse required for settlement had gone up, so he felt they were 
deliberately stalling in order to make further profit on the agreement. 
He also felt that specifically Black Horse had failed to adhere to the requirements of the FCA 
handbook CONC section 7.14, particularly the sections requiring a firm to give due 
consideration to a reasonable offer of settlement from a customer.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision 
is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. I also focus on what I think is 
material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. So, although I have read 
everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every point that has been raised.
I know the timeline Ive given above is set out in far less detail than given by Mr M in his 
submissions. Ive read the full detail of Mr Ms complaint and considered the timeline 
provided as well as the information each side has sent us. I want to assure Mr M Ive read 
and considered everything hes sent and said. If I havent responded to a specific point it 
isnt because I havent considered it, because I have. Im going to focus on what I think are 
the key issues in Mr Ms case. My approach is in line with our rules and role as a free 
alternative to the courts. I want to assure all parties that no discourtesy is intended.
There are two key parts to this complaint. Firstly, and most importantly is whether Black 
Horse were fair to require full settlement of the agreement when Mr M told them he wasnt 
able to continue servicing the agreement. And secondly is whether the service Black Horse 
provided when dealing with Mr M fell below what should be expected, and whether this was 
detrimental in any way to him. 
Ill deal with the settlement of the agreement first. Mr M feels that because of the 
Coronavirus pandemic and its impact on his finances, Black Horse should have considered 
his offers for settlement of the agreement more favourably and explained their responses to 
him. 
The FCA guidance regarding the impact of the pandemic and how firms should treat 
customers is focused on temporary measures to ease the pressures of monthly payments, 
such as payment holidays. There is nothing specific in these guidelines regarding settlement 
of agreements, so Ive considered the general guidance already in place for this. 
Mr M has quoted CONC 7.14 and believes that this means Black Horse should have given 
fair consideration to his offer of settlement and explained why they wouldnt accept it. This is 
specifically sections 7.14.8 and 7.14.9 of the FCA CONC guidance, which say:
A firm must give due consideration to a reasonable offer of repayment made by the 
customer
And Where a firm rejects a proposal for repayment from a customer in default or in arrears 
difficulties or from the customer's representative, the firm's response must include a clear 
explanation of the reason for the rejection.Mr M doesnt feel they have given his offer due consideration or explained their reason for 
rejecting it. In a situation where a consumer wishes to make a single payment to settle and 
end the agreement, then my interpretation of the guidance is that its reasonable for a 
business to give a simple yes or no answer. In this context, whilst I appreciate that the way 
in which Black Horse said No has confused Mr M at times, they did consistently tell him 
they would only accept full settlement. And the fact that they said that they wanted full 
settlement is fair. This is all l I would expect to see them do to meet their obligations under 
the FCA guidance.
Alongside this, this guidance does state that the requirement to include a clear explanation 
of the reasons for rejecting a customers offer for repayment is for a customer in default or 
arrears, which in February 2021, I dont believe was the case for Mr M.  
There is no requirement in the FCA guidance for a business to accept a reduced settlement 
offer. Mr M thinks that in his circumstances, they should have done this, but I dont agree. I 
think its fair for the business to still require full settlement, and thats what has happened. 
Mr M feels that the guidance required Black Horse to explain why they wouldnt accept his 
offer to settle. Whilst I appreciate that comments from individuals at Black Horse like we 
arent allowed to accept short settlement arent clear, Im unsure what further explanation 
Mr M wanted in order for him to be satisfied. He is made aware that they wont accept a 
short settlement, and I dont think thats something that requires any further explanation. The 
business decision is whether to consider short settlements or to only accept full settlement. 
Theyve made it clear they wont consider short settlement. Alongside this, I can see they 
offered him the opportunity to discuss with their collections department any alternative ways 
to move forward with ending the agreement. 
Mr M also feels that the confusion and delays led to them making profits as the settlement 
figure was higher by May 2021 when he settled the account. However, this isnt an accurate 
reflection of the circumstances. Mr M appears to have had a payment holiday arranged for 
December 2020  February 2021 inclusive and then also didnt make a payment in March 
2021, April 2021 or May 2021, before settling the agreement. As they explained in their final 
response letter, Black Horse have followed the requirements for calculating settlement 
figures as set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
It appears that it took Mr M from February 2021 to May 2021 to achieve a suitable sale figure 
for his vehicle that allowed him to settle the agreement. I cant agree that any of this is Black 
Horses fault or is an attempt by them to make more profit. Theyve treated Mr M fairly here 
and followed the required legislation in calculating the settlement figure.  
Mr M has told Black Horse in February 2021 that he cant service the agreement going 
forward and wants to settle it, so it also wouldnt have been appropriate for the business to 
then offer further payment holidays which might have ended up causing Mr M further 
financial difficulty. I am satisfied they have treated him fairly here.  
Moving on to the service Mr M received, I agree that some of the communication with Black 
Horse wasnt timely or clear. They apologised for responding slowly to his request to raise a 
complaint, and they offered £75 in light of this. I think this is an unfortunate situation whereby 
communication has broken down because Mr M wanted an explanation as to why Black 
Horse wouldnt accept a reduced settlement figure, and I dont believe that the individuals he 
was communicating with really understood what he was asking. 
Mr M got variations on the answer because we dont/cant accept short settlements several 
times when he queried this with Black Horse, which caused him frustration. Ive considered 
whether this had any significant impact on his situation however, and I dont think it did. It took until May 2021 for Mr M to get a high enough offer for the vehicle to allow him to settle 
the agreement, albeit still needing to add a further £1300 from his own funds to complete 
this. Ive seen no evidence that persuades me that this was delayed due to service errors by 
the business. I think the offer of £75 for the slow and sometimes confusing service is fair in 
the circumstances, and I wont be asking Black Horse to do anything different here. 
Mr M felt that Black Horse should have considered his offer for settlement differently, and 
that the service he received was deliberately poor, which was allowing Black Horse to profit 
further from his circumstances. I empathise with the situation Mr M found himself in, where 
he needed to end the agreement due to financial pressures created by the Coronavirus 
pandemic. But having examined the evidence in this case and listened to the testimony from 
both sides, I am satisfied that there have been no fundamental failings here by Black Horse 
which have caused Mr M any financial detriment. Theyve treated him fairly with regards to 
settling his agreement and apologised and offered him £75 when the service they have 
provided has dipped below acceptable levels. 
I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr M hoped for, but I cant agree that Black 
Horse should have done any more here. Im not clear whether Black Horse have already 
paid Mr M the £75 offered for poor service. If not, he may wish to contact them to arrange 
this. But Im not asking Black Horse to do anything more.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman