DRN-3937447
The complaint
Ms P complains about the level of service received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
following a claim against her homecare insurance policy. 
Mr V has brought the complaint to our Service on Ms Ps behalf. For ease of reading Ill refer 
to both Ms P and Mr V as Ms P. 
What happened
In 2017, Ms P replaced her boiler following advice from British Gas to do so. In 2021, she 
says British Gas failed to diagnose a pressure issue and advised her to replace the boiler, 
which she did, but that didnt resolve matters. A wider issue was later found on Ms Ps street 
a gas company repaired, which resolved the issues Ms P faced. Ms P says British Gas 
should cover the full boiler replacement costs as there was nothing wrong with her boiler. 
British Gas say the gas company incorrectly advised no pipework issues were found, so they 
recommended Ms P replaced the boiler based on this. And the gas company are partly 
responsible for the misdiagnosis. They offered to cover the boiler replacement but not the 
installation costs. They say theyve been advising Ms P replaces the boiler since 2017 so 
covering the full costs would be betterment. They also paid Ms P £100 compensation for the 
way things were handled. 
Ms P says she informed British Gas she replaced the boiler in 2017 so it was only 5 years 
old when they recommended a new one. And thinks they were ultimately responsible for 
what happened under the policy. She also wasnt happy she was told to contact the gas 
company to raise her concerns, and received threatening letters demanding payment. As 
she remained unhappy, she approached our Service for an impartial review. 
Our investigator recommended British Gas covers the full boiler replacement costs  
including installation. She said British Gas were responsible for misdiagnosing the fault and 
Ms P shouldnt be out of pocket as a result for replacing a boiler that wasnt faulty. 
British Gas maintained they acted on advice from experts and arent wholly responsible for 
what happened. As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied British Gas are responsible for the failure to correctly diagnose 
the fault and recommending Ms P replaces a functional 5-year-old boiler in error. Ill explain 
why. 
British Gas say covering the full costs (including installation) would be betterment given 
theyve advised Ms P since 2017 to replace it anyway. Ms P, however, has provided 
supporting evidence that shows she did follow this 2017 advice and replaced it. British Gas 
engineer job notes also state Ms P had advised she was having a new boiler installed. I find 
this is a key point in the complaint that has been overlooked. 
So, given Ms P replaced her boiler in 2017, and theres no evidence to suggest the boiler 
recommended to be replaced in 2021 wasnt functional  or the cause of the 2021 fault  I 
dont find British Gas comments regarding betterment reasonable. 
The claim notes suggest British Gas thought a part was needed, and after this failed to 
resolve the issue, a gas company inspected pipework and found no fault, but this was an 
error. So, a new boiler was recommended based on this advice. As such, British Gas say 
they relied on advice from experts and therefore arent wholly to blame for Ms P replacing a 
5-year-old functional boiler unnecessarily. I dont agree. 
It's unclear why British Gas engineer failed to identify the boiler wasnt the issue here or the 
age of it  given it was installed roughly 5 years prior to this visit. I find it very unlikely Ms Ps 
boiler would have required replacing given its age, and ultimately British Gas were also the 
experts in diagnosing faults and assessing whether a reasonable solution to the 2021 
pressure problem was to have the boiler replaced. So, even though British Gas say they 
relied on being given incorrect information by a third-party that led to the incorrect diagnosis 
and advice, they were ultimately responsible under the contract of insurance to assist Ms P 
with the claim correctly which they failed to do. 
In concluding, Im not satisfied its fair or reasonable for Ms P to be left out of pocket as the 
result of British Gas failing to correctly diagnose the fault  even if a third-party was involved 
and their actions in part led to Ms P being given incorrect advice. And I dont think it was fair 
for British Gas to suggest Ms P contacts the third-party directly to raise her concerns. I say 
this because her contract of insurance was with British Gas who were ultimately responsible 
for handling and resolving the claim. So, Ill be directing British Gas to cover the full boiler 
replacement and installation costs. 
There were some service issues British Gas acknowledged by apologising and paying Ms P 
£100 compensation. I find that was fair. Even if things could have been handled better here, 
I think British Gas have already done enough to put things right in respect of the service 
issues Ms P faced. 
Putting things right
For the reasons mentioned above, British Gas Insurance Limited must now cover the full 
boiler replacement and installation costs, so Ms P isnt out of pocket as the result of their 
failings here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman