DRN-2312419
The complaint
Mr E complains Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (HBOS) wont cover the cost of the 
calls he needed to make from abroad in order to unblock his credit card account. Hes also 
unhappy with the amount of time it took for him to be put through to a call handler who could 
help him. Hes said the experience caused him to feel stressed and tired at work.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr E attempted to buy something online while he was outside of the UK. He 
made the payment on a website hes used several times before but he says payments to 
that particular merchant have been blocked by HBOS around five times before. 
Mr Es given us a screenshot of a message from HBOS that appeared when the transaction 
was blocked telling him someone would be in touch with him in the next five minutes to 
confirm the transaction. And if that didnt happen, it directed Mr E to call. 
Mr E says he didnt receive a call so he called the number provided around ten minutes later. 
He says he waited for around 40 minutes on hold and, as it was very late where he was, he 
ended the call. The following day, Mr Es explained he tried calling again. This time he got 
through to a call handler who he says blind transferred him to another department. Before 
transferring him, theyd told him the wait time would be five minutes but he was on hold for 
around 30 minutes. Hes told us over both days, he was on the phone for nearly two hours. 
Mr Es told us the cost of his calls was approximately £150 as he was calling a UK number 
from abroad. Hes said he wants HBOS to reimburse him for this because its done so in the 
past and it directed him to call. HBOS didnt agree. It says its explained to him previously 
why it completes security checks on his account and our service has previously decided it 
shouldnt be expected to cover the cost of Mr Es calls indefinitely. Its pointed out its phone 
lines are open all day every day so Mr E couldve called at a quieter time. And because it 
followed its process correctly, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. In an attempt to stop 
transactions being blocked going forward for this particular website, HBOS updated Mr Es 
internet protocol (IP) address and device. But it said it couldnt guarantee anything.
Unhappy with HBOSs response, Mr E asked us to look into things. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She didnt think HBOS had made an error in blocking Mr Es account 
and prompting him to call in  as it followed its own process correctly. So she didnt think 
HBOS should cover the cost of the calls regardless of how long they were. Mr E didnt agree 
with our investigators opinion so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Es complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
hell be disappointed, Ill explain why. 
HBOS has said it doesnt think it should reimburse Mr E for his call costs as they were as a 
result of a genuine block on his account. And I think thats reasonable in this case. I say this 
because in order to protect Mr E and itself, HBOS has fraud prevention processes which 
include blocking transactions if it thinks theres a potential risk. Whilst it wouldve been ideal 
if HBOS had been able to call him as the screenshot indicated, I dont think its unreasonable 
for it to direct customers to call in  so their account is unblocked as quickly as possible. 
Under normal circumstances, if this happens to a customer in the UK, the phone number 
provided would usually be free to call from a landline or included in a customers free mobile 
minutes. Otherwise, it would be charged at a local rate. So whilst I accept it might be 
inconvenient to wait, it wouldnt be costly. Its unfortunate that the number wasnt free for 
Mr E to call from abroad  but I dont think HBOS should be held responsible for this.
I know Mr E has said he was on the phone for nearly two hours over two days before his 
account was unblocked. And because of the time difference, this affected his sleep and 
caused him to be tired at work. But HBOS has highlighted he couldve called at a different 
time more convenient to him  and when he wouldnt have to wait for so long. And from what 
hes told us, Im satisfied he called at the time that he did because he was worried the item 
he was trying to purchase would sell out. So I think it was his choice to wait.
Mr E says he made two calls to HBOS but its only been able to find a recording of one call. 
Mr Es explained due to the time difference between the UK and where he was, he thinks 
there has been some confusion over when the calls happened  and HBOS has looked at 
the wrong dates on its system. And I accept thats likely. But as I dont think HBOS should 
reimburse the cost of the calls, I dont think this makes a difference in this case. 
During the second call Mr E made, he says he was told by a call handler hed be transferred 
to another team who could help him  and the wait time would be five minutes but it actually 
took half an hour. Hes said he was blind transferred and he couldnt go back to the first call 
handler  so hes unhappy with the level of service provided. I understand waiting for this 
amount of time mustve been frustrating for Mr E especially when he was told it would be 
significantly less time before his call was picked up. And I think the member of staff couldve 
handled things a bit better here. But that doesnt mean it automatically follows I think HBOS 
should compensate Mr E. Overall I dont think HBOS has treated Mr E unfairly or 
unreasonably in this case. So I wont be asking it to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is I am not upholding Mr Es complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 January 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman