DRN-3554964
The complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold a policy by British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) because it
says his hot water cylinder isnt included in the annual service offered under his home
emergency policy.
What happened
Mr M noticed that the section entitled, hot water cylinder was crossed-off in the latest report
provided by a British Gas engineer. He queried this and was told this type of cylinder (a
pressurised cylinder) wasnt covered under his policy. Mr M says this meant his hot water
cylinder hadnt been serviced, which invalidated his warranty and home insurance policy. He
says he isnt happy paying for a service that wasnt provided and for the potential knock-on
effects.
In its response to Mr Ms complaint British Gas says the policy doesnt include servicing of
pressurised cylinders.
Mr M says this isnt stated in his policy terms. He says the diagrams, policy definitions and
policy terms all indicate the cylinder should be serviced. He referred his complaint to our
service for an independent review. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Although he
noted Mr Ms reference to the diagram in the policy booklet, he didnt think the policy terms
provided for an annual service of the hot water cylinder.
Mr M disputed his findings, but our investigator didnt change his mind. Mr M asked for an
ombudsman to review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My remit here is to consider whether Mr M was mis-sold his policy given his view that he was
provided with mis-leading information about whether hot water cylinders were included in an
annual service.
To understand what is expected, I have read the information Mr M was provided with when
he arranged his policy online. The policy terms give the following definitions:
annual service
- a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your boiler, gas appliance or central
heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with relevant laws and regulations..
Also:
central heating
- the heat and hot water system on your property  including your expansion tank, radiators,
bypass and radiator valves, system filters, warm-air vents, cylinders, any immersion heater
and its wired in timer switch, and the pipes that connect them.
The policy booklet includes a diagram showing the components of a heating system. A hot
water cylinder is shaded green and purple. Purple denotes plumbing, and green denotes
central heating. The next page describes the different types of cover British Gas offers. From
his renewal document Mr M has, HomeCare Two - Boiler, controls and central heating
cover including an annual service in place. This corresponds with the green shading.
The policy booklet shows that Mr M doesnt have the plumbing option, but does have the
central heating cover, which says, These products are designed to meet the demands and
needs of customers who want to protect their: Boiler, controls and central heating on a
service and repair basis.
The next page of the policy terms includes the following information:
Central Heating
Whats covered
All repairs to the heat and hot water system on your property, for example:
 expansion tank, radiators, bypass and radiator valves;
 warm-air vents;
 cylinders and any immersion heater and its wired in timer switch; and
 the pipes that connect the central
heating system
- A replacement of parts of your central heating if we cant repair them
- Accidental damage
- A first service or annual service
(see page 28).
Page 28 of the policy booklet says:
Annual service
For boilers and central heating your first service counts as an annual service.
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will include
testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces.
If the visit shows that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean
it, well do so.
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows you exactly what weve looked
at. If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you about it.
We asked British Gas what Mr M will have seen when he followed the process of selecting
his cover online. It supplied a screenshot of the servicing information for the type of cover MrM chose. This says:
Whats included?
- Repairs to your gas central heating system, including boiler, controls, radiators and
hot water cylinder.
- Annual service of your boiler to make sure its running safely and efficiently.
British Gas provided a copy of the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) it sent to 
Mr M. It pointed to the following excerpt:
What is insured?
- Unlimited repairs to your gas central heating system,
- including boiler and controls and gas supply pipe
- All parts and labour
- Non-emergencies and emergencies
- Annual service of your boiler**
**Your annual service may be more than 12 months apart.
In addition to this information it says the hot water cylinder wasnt broken, so no repair was
necessary. It says the policy doesnt stipulate that it will carry out a service to anything other
than an appliance or boiler.
I have thought about whether the policy terms require a specific service of Mr Ms hot water
cylinder.
The policy definitions say an annual service is a check in each period of agreement to
ensure the boiler, gas appliance or central heating is working safely. The definition of central
heating includes hot water cylinders amongst a number of other components.
Boiler/appliance servicing is specified in the terms. This requires the exhaust gases to be
tested and, if indicated, cleaning or adjusting of the boiler/appliance to be carried out.
British Gas says it will carry out a visual check of the hot water cylinder. But it also says the
cylinder wasnt broken and didnt need repairing.
I acknowledge what British Gas says in respect of a visual check of the hot water cylinder.
But I think the policy terms say that an annual service will be provided for the hot water
cylinder, as its part of the central heating system. Based on this I think its reasonable for Mr
M to expect a service to have been carried out.
Mr M has sent a copy of the check sheet British Gass engineer filled in at his last visit. One
section is entitled Safety Summary: For all visits and sets out the checks required for the
boiler. The other section is entitled, Annual Service: Additional checks carried out, there
are five fields for the engineer to complete here. One of the fields says, Hot water storage
cylinder checked (where applicable). The engineer crossed this section out.
This indicates a specific check of the hot water cylinder is something British Gass engineers
can carry out as part of an annual service. In this case a check wasnt carried out. But I think
the policy terms do say an annual service of the hot water cylinder is required.
Mr M has sent a copy of the warranty provided with his hot water cylinder. This says a
guarantee is in place for 25 years against faulty materials or manufacture, provided that the
unit has been serviced annually, and a service record has been filled in after each annualservice. Hes concerned that the lack of servicing has impacted his warranty.
I acknowledge British Gas says theres no problem with the hot water cylinder, which was
visually inspected by its engineer. I understand Mr Ms concern that the warranty could
potentially be affected should he need to make a claim against the manufacturer in the
future. But as it stands there is no loss to consider. Im not able to consider remedial action
where this is the case.
That said Mr M was provided with information by British Gas that says the policy it sold him
will include an annual service for his hot water cylinder. When Mr M first raised this issue he
was told pressurised cylinders arent serviced. Ive read the policy terms but cant see that
this is mentioned.
Having considered all of this I dont think British Gas has treated Mr M fairly in providing a
policy that says it will service his hot water cylinder when this isnt the case. I dont think its
been shown that pressurised cylinders are excluded from this either. I think its fair that
British Gas arranges for a service to be carried out or pays for the reasonable cost of Mr M
arranging this. Mr M has been caused frustration and worry because his hot water cylinder
hasnt been serviced and for the impact this could have on his warranty and home
insurance. To acknowledge this, I think its fair for British Gas to pay him £100
compensation.
Mr M may wish to consider whether his policy meets his needs going forward.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and British Gas Services Limited should:
- arrange for Mr Ms hot water cylinder to be serviced or pay his reasonable costs in
arranging this himself; and
- pay Mr M £100 compensation for the frustration and worry it caused him.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
British Gas responded to say its position hasnt changed. It says the cylinder is covered in 
the case of breakdown but doesnt get serviced. It says radiators and overflow tanks are 
shown on the cover diagram for central heating systems and they arent serviced either. 
British Gas highlights the screenshots from the online customer journey Mr M followed and 
the IPID clearly show what is covered. It says its clear only the boiler receives a service. It 
also says Mr M has no active policy in place and it doesnt think it should pay the cost of a 
third-party service.
Mr M responded to say he broadly welcomes the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
But he maintains this is a case of a mis-sold product not simply a case of being treated 
unfairly. He doesnt think the compensation payment adequately recognises what he 
considers to be reprehensible behaviour from British Gas in these circumstances.
Mr M says he can recall at least two faults arising with the hot water cylinder that 
necessitated call outs and engineer visits. An excess payment of £60 was payable for each 
of these visits. Mr M thinks these call outs could have been avoided had servicing been 
carried out. 
Mr M says he has spent at least 12 hours corresponding with British Gas and our service in 
pursuing his complaint. He says he charges his time at £36 per hour and thinks a payment of £432 is appropriate. Mr M says British Gas doesnt have enough engineers qualified to work 
on unvented cylinders. He says this is why it has gone to such lengths to dismiss his 
complaint. 
Mr M says he no longer has a relationship with British Gas and doesnt want it to service his 
cylinder. He says he has recently replaced his boiler and had his cylinder checked as part of 
this installation. He would like a contribution toward the cost of the new installation. 
In resolution of his complaint Mr M asks that British Gas pays him 25% of the £1,421 he paid 
in premiums for his policy, £120 to refund the call-out fees he paid, £432 for the time spent 
bringing his complaint, and a £120 contribution for the servicing of his cylinder.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the points British Gas has made about the information Mr M will have seen 
during his online application and the information set out in the IPID. This shows an annual 
service is included for boilers. I referred to this in my provisional decision. But I also 
considered the policy terms, which define an annual service as a check in each period of 
agreement to ensure the boiler, gas appliance or central heating is working safely. The 
definition of central heating includes hot water cylinders. I thought it was reasonable for Mr M 
to expect a service to be carried out based on what the policy terms say. 
Mr M says the policy was mis-sold rather than this being a case of him being treated unfairly. 
I acknowledge his comments and his view that more compensation should be provided by 
British Gas. 
Mr M has benefitted from the cover provided by his policy. This includes servicing of his 
boiler as well as repairs that were carried out, which he refers to in his further comments. 
Because of this I dont agree that the policy was mis-sold or that a portion of his premiums 
should be refunded. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms comments that call out fees were incurred because his hot water 
cylinder wasnt serviced. But I dont think hes reasonably shown this to be the case. So, I 
dont think it was unfair for British Gas to raise these charges as required by his policy.    
Mr M sets out the time he has spent dealing with his complaint. In my provisional decision I 
acknowledged the frustration and worry he was caused by British Gas not servicing his 
cylinder and the impact he felt this could have on his warranty and home insurance. I accept 
Mr M has had to spend time complaining to British Gas and our service. The business has a 
different view to Mr M, which it is entitled to have. But I think a compensation payment for 
£100 is fair to acknowledge the impact this has had on him. Our service doesnt base 
awards for distress and inconvenience on the valuation an individual places on their time. 
I think £100 is fair in the circumstances described and consistent with our approach to 
making awards.  
Mr M thinks there is wider issue with not enough British Gas engineers having the necessary 
qualification to work on pressurised cylinders. We arent the regulator and its not our role to 
determine how British Gas runs its business. My role here is to consider Mr Ms individual 
complaint and whether he was treated fairly in these circumstances. I dont think he was 
treated fairly. But I think the remedy I have set out below is fair in acknowledging this. Because Mr M has made clear he doesnt want British Gas to service his boiler, its 
reasonable that my decision is amended to remove this requirement. We contacted British 
Gas to allow it to comment on this point. It didnt object to the removal of this part of the 
remedy. But it did reiterate its view that the policy doesnt provide for the servicing of hot 
water cylinders. 
Having reconsidered all of this, Im not persuaded that there is reason to change my 
provisional decision, other than to remove the part requiring British Gas to arrange a service 
of the cylinder. I note Mr Ms comments that he had his cylinder checked when his boiler was 
replaced. British Gas should pay the reasonable costs in him arranging a service, which he 
can demonstrate to it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. British Gas Services Limited should:
- pay Mr Ms reasonable costs in arranging a service of his hot water cylinder; and
- pay Mr M £100 compensation for the frustration and worry it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman