DRN-1395749
The complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) held him liable for an 
accident after a claim made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was turning right when his car collided with an oncoming car. Mr B said the other driver 
was speeding and drove into the side of his car. There were no independent witnesses or 
CCTV evidence available. RSA considered the accident circumstances and thought it would 
be unable to defend Mr B in court. So RSA settled the other drivers claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought RSA 
was entitled to decide how to settle the claim by the policy terms and conditions. She 
thought it hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling the other drivers claim.
Mr B replied that there were two witnesses, but they wouldnt provide statements. He 
recently provided a statement from one witness. Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review, so 
his complaints come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mr B and Mrs B were hurt in the collision. I can understand that it 
must have been a very upsetting event. I can see that Mr B is adamant that he wasnt at fault 
for this accident. Ive listened to the notification call and Ive heard him describe the accident 
circumstances. He told us that his car was hit on the side whilst stationary. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr B the same as someone else in his position? 
RSA is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr B to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr B has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim before making its decision 
on liability. 
I ve listened to the call recording of Mr B describing the events to RSA. There was no CCTV 
footage available and no independent witnesses provided statements for RSA to consider. 
RSA considered the location of the accident and the damage to Mr Bs car. RSA explained 
that it couldnt prove that the other driver was speeding. It explained that as Mr B was 
crossing into the path of the other car, the greater duty of care was on him. And so it said it 
would be unable to defend the matter and would have to admit fault. 
Mr B recently provided a statement from a neighbour for me to consider. But I dont think this 
is enough to make RSA reconsider its decision. This is because the neighbour didnt witness 
the collision. He saw the damage to the cars on the accident site and came to assist after 
the accident. 
So I think RSA reasonably investigated the claim before deciding to settle it. I think its 
entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. And I think it did this fairly and 
reasonably and didnt treat Mr B any differently to other consumers. So I cant say that it has 
done anything wrong in holding Mr B liable for the accident.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman