DRN-4389296
The complaint
This complaints about an application made by K, a limited company, to re-finance a 
short-term bridging loan it holds with Shawbrook Bank Limited onto a long-term commercial 
mortgage.
 
What happened
K took out the bridging loan in 2019, on the advice and recommendation of a third party 
intermediary, a broker firm Ill refer to here as P. The directors say that K wanted a long-term 
commercial mortgage from the outset, but was forced to take the bridging loan as it was 
already legally committed to the purchase. In October 2020, K applied to change the 
bridging loan into a long-term commercial mortgage, but the directors say this process was 
beset by problems and delays, which they attribute to Shawbrook. During this time, 
Shawbrook issued a number of extensions on the bridging loan. 
K made several complaints over the period; Shawbrook addressed each one in a series of 
final responses, issued between August 2020 and June 2022. In the most recent of these, 
Shawbrook confirmed the application for the long-term commercial mortgage was no longer 
under consideration. 
In July 2022, K contacted our service; the investigator who looked into the complaint didnt 
recommend it be upheld; The directors of K remain unhappy so the case has come to me for 
review. 
By way of a jurisdiction decision dated 2 October 2023, I confirmed that this services remit 
to consider this complaint is confined to the subject matter covered in Shawbrooks final 
response dated 22 June 2022. These were, in summary:
a subsequent valuation being no different from its predecessor
the application being declined and requiring further negotiation;
a mix up between K, Shawbrook and P over the expiry date of the most recent valuation;
three months worth of delays;
the charging of an arrangement fee; and
why solicitors were being instructed for an internal product switch.
All other aspects of Ks complaint that were addressed in final responses issued by 
Shawbrook prior to 20 January 2022 are time-barred under our rules. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Mindful of the rules, an important point I need to make is about the directors belief that they 
have been the subject of discrimination on a personal level. Ive read everything theyve said 
in that regard, and whilst I have no doubt of their strength of feeling, I have to keep in mind 
at all times that the eligible complainant here is K the limited company and not the directors 
themselves. 
The directors merely bring the complaint on the companys behalf, so I cant consider their 
personal feelings, however much they would wish me to. I can only consider the impact of 
Shawbrooks actions on the company, and aside from anything else, a limited company is an 
inanimate entity, not capable of suffering from discrimination or distress.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first observation to make here is that the transaction at the heart of this dispute is not, as 
K has characterised it, a product transfer on an existing lending facility. Rather, it was 
request for an entirely new lending facility - a long-term commercial mortgage  to repay a 
short-term bridging loan These are two completely different types of lending, involving very 
different underwriting criteria and risk assessments, an entirely new contract and possibly a 
new legal charge. In that context, it isnt relevant that the same lender was involved. It was a 
new transaction requiring a new lending decision and the execution of a new mortgage 
contract, hence the arrangement fee and the need for solicitors to be instructed. 
The circumstances in which K came to have a bridging loan first, and then find itself having 
to apply for the new facility, fall outside my remit here, as they arent covered in the final 
response of 22 June 2022. All I can deal with is how Shawbrook handled the application, but 
even then only those elements that were addressed in the same final response. 
My starting point here is that no one, whether they be a private individual or a commercial 
entity, is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not 
automatically entitled to do so again. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context 
of an application for a new loan on entirely different terms, that means assessing it fairly in 
accordance with the banks lending criteria and appetite for risk, and being mindful of what 
good practice requires of it. 
Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made public. Meanwhile, I 
dont need to take account of the provisions of the Mortgage and Home Finance Conduct of 
Business rules (MCOB). Both the existing bridging loan and the proposed long-term 
commercial mortgage were unregulated.
Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, its quite apparent 
that the biggest stumbling block to the commercial loan being approved for release was that 
Shawbrook was not satisfied that key conditions specified in the offer regarding the physical 
state of the proposed security premises had been met. I dont reveal the details here, as to 
so might be a potential identifier, but in simple terms K is adamant that it had done all that 
was required of it to allow funds to be released, but Shawbrook didnt agree.
Shawbrook wasnt acting on a whim, or simply saying no for the sake of being obstructive. It 
was relying on the expert opinions of the surveyor it had instructed to assess the premises 
suitability as security for the proposed lending, and the solicitors it instructed to act for it in 
the transaction. Each time the surveyor issued a valuation, it had a limited time span, and 
expired before Shawbrook was satisfied all conditions had been met. I havent considered whether the surveyors assessments of the suitability of the security 
were fairly reached or the subject of error; these were the opinions of an independent third 
party over whom I have no jurisdiction. However much Ks directors might have disagreed 
with the view that the premises werent up to the required standard, the surveyor thought 
otherwise and Shawbrook was reasonably entitled to rely on the opinion of the expert. 
Throughout the whole period I am able to consider, I think Shawbrook took reasonable steps 
to keep Ks broker firm P apprised of developments, as they occurred. I also consider that 
Shawbrook made sure P understood what documents its solicitors needed to receive before 
it would be willing to release funds. Before it had received all of the necessary items, in 
March 2022, the most recent valuation had once again expired. If there was a mix-up over 
the exact date the valuation expired, Im not persuaded that was a mistake on Shawbrooks 
part, and Ive no remit to consider if P did anything wrong.
In summary, the decision whether to release the funds for the commercial mortgage was 
Shawbrooks to make, only if and when it was satisfied, based on the expert opinions it was 
entitled to rely on, that all of its lending conditions had been met. The responsibility to ensure 
those conditions were met were Ks and Ks alone. In all the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded, on the basis of the evidence before me, that delays or omissions on 
Shawbrooks part are the sole or even primary reason this transaction did not complete.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see how strongly Ks directors feel. They see error or wrong-doing in 
almost everything Shawbrook has done (or not done). 
Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a particular viewpoint, 
whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the opposite viewpoint. 
But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or anomalies in what both 
sides have said and done from time to time. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae, focussing on the broader 
picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done so, for all the reasons Ive set out, I cant find in 
Ks favour. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman