DRN-1672073
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Home Insurance 
has dealt with, handled and declined a claim for property damage under the commercial 
business policy.
The complaint is on behalf of a business C. The owners son Mr M is dealing with the 
complaint on behalf of his mother.
What happened
Mr M made a claim after the collapse of a garage roof and wall following heavy rainfall. 
During the initial discussion Mr M told UKI the collapse had occurred over a two week 
period. He referred to the damage as happening over the years due to water, and that the 
timbers had rotted. He said there was ivy growing on the roof and the walls. Mr M said the 
council had notified him the damage needed to be removed as it was dangerous. 
At this point, after checking the policy wording UKI said the damage wasnt covered under 
the policy. It said there was an exclusion for gradual deterioration. UKI also checked its 
weather details to be sure there was no storm at the time of claim and confirmed to Mr M 
that there had been no storm conditions. At this point there was a debate about inspecting 
the damage, initially UKI declined to do so. UKI said Mr M could get a report and it would 
consider the details. As Mr M continued to dispute this UKI eventually agreed to send 
someone out to inspect the damage.
UKI did inspect and also spoke to other people who were in the locality at the time to check if 
theyd noticed anything about the condition of the garage and the walls. Following this UKI 
again declined the claim. It confirmed that the policy didnt cover outbuildings. Mr M said he 
never got any notification of this. Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said UKIs policy did exclude outbuildings 
and so this was a fair decision. Our investigator checked if storm conditions had occurred 
and accepted what UKI said - no storm had happened at that time. Based on the checks our 
investigator did he felt UKI had acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim for 
gradual deterioration. He said all of the details provided suggested the garage and the walls 
were in a poor condition. Mr M didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all of the evidence provided. Mr M has had the opportunity to provide his own 
evidence, but I havent seen anything to outweigh the evidence provided by UKI. From the 
start UKI said Mr M could get his own report but Mr M made reference to taking UKI to court 
and didnt get any independent evidence himself. Much of what Mr M has said has been to 
try to unpick the evidence and details provided by UKI.
In the telephone call right at the start of the complaint Mr M referred to the damage as if the 
collapse happened over a period of two weeks. He talked about the water causing damage 
over the years and that the timbers had rotted away. The evidence Ive seen backs this up. 
The damage shows that the wall and garage roof didnt appear to be well maintained and 
although Mr M is unhappy about the UKI inspection asking other people in the locality about 
the condition it appears this was just honest comment from other people which just added to 
the inspection and the photo evidence provided.
UKI confirmed that there was no storm at the time of the damage and that has been 
confirmed by our investigator too. This service considers three questions to establish this 
and the answer to all three must be yes to accept the claim. The first question is Was 
there a storm? and in this case the answer is no. So, I dont need to consider the 
subsequent questions.
Ive seen the UKI policy details that confirms outbuildings are clearly excluded from the 
policy and theres also an exclusion for gradual damage.
Based on all of the details, evidence and information Ive seen I need to consider if UKI 
acted reasonably and fairly when it declined to deal with the claim, and I think it did. Due to 
Mr Ms initial reservations when it first declined to deal with the matter it agreed to arrange 
an inspection. I think that was fair, but the inspection also highlighted that UKI had been 
reasonable in its initial assessment when it declined the claim.
UKI also declined the damage to the walls. So even though walls arent outbuildings it did 
need to consider the damage here too. I think it did that, it mentioned the roots growing 
through the wall, and the photo evidence. This backs up UKI declining this part of the claim 
due to gradual deterioration.
I dont think UKI did anything wrong in the way it handled the claim. I know Mr M was upset 
about delays in finding out that UKI was still declining the claim, but I dont think UKI held up 
the claim in any unreasonable way. I thought it was clear throughout. At the outset it 
declined the claim based on the information provided by Mr M. It did however still arrange an 
inspection, and this backed up the initial decision. I know Mr M has paid particular attention 
to UKI asking other people at the site about the condition. But UKI didnt try to claim this was 
expert evidence, I think it saw it as useful background detail to further confirm why it declined 
the claim.
I understand that Mr M thinks he will win a court case against UKI.  I can confirm that Mr M is 
perfectly entitled to take court action against UKI, but he shouldnt accept my decision if he 
does choose to take such further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Home Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman