DRN-2723974
The complaint
Ms J complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline her total and 
permanent disablement claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2010 Ms J set up a mortgage life insurance policy with Aviva. It provides decreasing life 
and critical illness cover over a twelve-year term with an initial sum assured of £94,000. The 
policy includes total and permanent disablement (TPD) cover under the critical illness cover 
benefit, as well as waiver of premium benefit. 
Ms J suffers from a degenerative spinal condition and underwent a decompression operation 
in August 2018. Although there were initial signs of improvement, Ms Js symptoms 
worsened to the point she was unable to work by January 2019. Ms J made a waiver of 
premium claim, which was successful, and a TPD claim which Aviva declined. Aviva 
explained theyd referred Ms Js medical records to their consulting medical officer (CMO) 
who considered that, given there are further treatment options available, it wasnt possible to 
conclude Ms J was permanently unable to follow her occupation at that time. And so, Aviva 
said Ms J hadnt met the policy criteria for a claim to be paid.
Ms J complained about Avivas decision to decline her TPD claim. In short, she thought her 
condition met the policy criteria and explained that it was a degenerative disease which 
meant it would only worsen over time. And the further surgery option available to her is 
aimed at slowing this process to maintain a quality of life. So, Ms J didnt think shed be able 
to work again. She referred to the 2018 operation that was unsuccessful in enabling her to 
make a return to work. 
Avivas position didnt change. They reiterated that, it was their CMOs opinion that full 
engagement with a pain specialist programme may improve Ms Js symptoms and that 
future successful surgery may improve her level of mobilisation. They said theyd need to 
wait at least 12 to 18 months to see the outcome of the surgery and whether it has improved 
Ms Js condition. Aviva acknowledged the impact the condition was having on Ms J but 
explained that, for a claim to be paid, they need to be satisfied that she is totally and 
permanently unable to follow her occupation. They regrettably couldnt say that was the case 
while further surgery and treatment is awaited. 
As Ms J remained dissatisfied with Avivas decision to decline her claim, she referred her 
complaint to our service. She felt Aviva were unfairly using the pending operation as a 
reason not to honour the claim as, even if she had it, she wouldnt be able to stand, sit or lift 
for long periods of time as her occupation requires. Ms J also questioned why Aviva hadnt 
contacted her GP or specialist for their opinion on her prognosis for the future. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt think Aviva had unfairly 
declined the claim. She explained that the TPD policy clause required a policyholder to be 
both totally and permanently unable to continue with their normal occupation. And it also 
explains that, in determining this, Aviva will consider the views of the life insureds medical 
adviser as well as their own medical adviser. So, while she acknowledged Ms Js concerns 
about the clause being open to interpretation, she thought it was sufficiently clear and 
explained that its normal for an insurer to consider further available treatment options  
which may improve symptoms  when assessing a TPD claim. 
Our investigator noted that Avivas CMO considered the pending surgery, along with full 
engagement of the pain specialist programme, could improve Ms Js symptoms. But she 
thought Ms J had legitimate concerns as to why Aviva hadnt contacted her specialist. So, 
after speaking with Aviva about this, they agreed to so. The specialist (who Ill refer to as Dr 
S) explained the surgery should provide good benefit by improving Ms Js back and leg pain 
along with her general mobility. Dr S also said that she anticipated Ms J should be able to 
return to some form of work (likely part-time at first) but did add that the impact of subject of 
surgery can vary person to person. Because of the treatment options available to Ms J, our 
investigator didnt think Avivas decision was unfair. 
Ms J disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I want to clarify that Ill only be considering Avivas 
consideration of Ms Js complaint at the point they declined her claim which was 
predominately in relation to her spinal condition. So, while I understand Ms J suffers from 
other health issues that have since worsened  such as rheumatoid arthritis  this wont form 
part of this decision. I understand Ms J has since contacted Aviva about this further and so 
they should respond accordingly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly want to reassure Ms J that I dont underestimate the seriousness of her condition or 
the impact it has had on her. But, what I must consider here is whether Aviva acted fairly and 
in line with policy terms when declining her TPD claim. Ive given this careful consideration 
and, although I know it will come as a disappointment to Ms J, I think they have and for 
similar reasons to that of our investigator. Ill explain why. 
The relevant policy term for Ms Js claim is:
4. CRITICAL ILLNESS COVER

(d) Total Permanent Disablement (before attaining age 65).
      Total Permanent Disablement can be defined in one of the following ways:
(i) The Life Insured is totally unable to follow their Normal Occupation as a result 
of sickness or accident and will permanently continue to be totally unable to 
follow their Normal Occupation, taking into account current medical knowledge 
and technology. Normal occupation means the occupation of the Life Insured 
immediately before the sickness or accident that resulted in a claim.

In determining whether the Life Insured has Total Permanent Disablement, we will 
consider the views of the Life Insureds medical adviser, and may consult our medical 
advisers and/or our reassurers, if appropriate. Prior to making the claim, Ms J was working as a marketing manager. This means for a 
claim to be paid Ms J must be both totally and permanently unable to carry out the duties of 
a marketing manager.
Im satisfied the above makes it clear that, when determining this, Aviva will take into 
consideration the views of Ms Js medical adviser and their own medical adviser(s). I think 
its reasonable for Aviva to rely upon the opinion of medical professionals when assessing a 
TPD claim. 
Aviva referred Ms Js medical records to their CMO (which the terms allow for). It was the 
CMOs opinion that it was premature to consider TPD as they considered full engagement 
with a pain specialist programme may improve Ms Js symptoms to a manageable degree 
and successful future surgery may improve her levels of mobilisation. They suggested the 
full benefits of the surgery may not be seen for 12 to 18 months but considered it would give 
her a favourable opportunity to return to work. 
As Ive said, I dont underestimate the seriousness of Ms Js condition nor the physical and 
mental toll it has had on her. I also dont doubt her efforts in attempting to improve her 
physical condition or her attempt to return to work following the 2018 surgery. Ive also noted 
her concerns about the detrimental effect attempting to return to work again could have on 
her after undergoing the proposed surgery. However, while I wouldnt expect Ms J to return 
to work if it was detrimental to her health, the benefits (if any) of the surgery arent yet 
known. I dont however consider it unreasonable for Aviva to take their CMOs opinion into 
account  as per the policy terms - when determining whether Ms J is totally and 
permanently unable to carry the general duties of a marketing manager. And so, given it was 
the CMOs opinion that Ms J may be able to return to work, in some capacity, following the 
surgery, I dont think they acted unreasonably by declining Ms Js claim.
Aviva didnt contact Ms Js treating consultant when considering the claim but have since 
done so. They asked Dr S the following:
The medical information we have received shows that you have recommended an 
L4/5 instrumented fusion and decompression to help her degenerative spinal 
diseases.
I would be grateful if you could please confirm the anticipated outcome of treatment 
for Ms J, following the surgery and engagement in any necessary adjuvant 
therapies/rehabilitation.
In particular, would you anticipate that successful treatment may enable the patient to 
return to work in any form, either part-time or full-time. If so, would there be any 
restrictions on the type of work she could perform? Please provide details.  
Dr S responded and said:
It is likely that if she gets a good control of her rheumatoid arthritis with medications, 
lumbar instrumented fusion should provide her good benefits in terms of 
improvement in the back pain, improvement in her leg pain and general mobility. She 
will continue to have a variable amount of back pain, stiffness and pain at various 
places in the body for the rest of her life, however after the operation I anticipate that 
she should be able to return to some form of job, more likely in part-time duties, and 
after six months from her operation, there should not be any significant restriction on 
her work duties once her spine wound has healed and fused.I think Dr Ss opinion is sufficiently clear in that Ms J should be able to return to work post-
surgery. 
I understand Ms J thinks the above isnt specific enough to the duties required of her normal 
occupation. While I accept Dr S doesnt explicitly refer to Ms J being able to return to work 
as a marketing manager, I think the response is persuasive in that they say there shouldnt 
be any significant restrictions on Ms Js work duties after six months from the operation 
(when her spine wound shouldve healed and fused). And so, from this, I think it is 
reasonable to assume that Ms J may be able to carry out such duties expected of a 
marketing managing in some capacity. Ms Js capabilities will however likely require further 
consideration and assessment once the benefits (if any) of the surgery are known.
Dr Ss opinion is largely consistent with that of Avivas CMO in relation to the prospect of 
Ms J being able to return to work. Because of this, I dont think it can be fairly considered 
that Ms J was either totally or permanently unable to return to work as a marketing manager. 
It follows that I dont think Aviva acted unfairly, or outside the policy, by declining the claim. 
I understand Ms J has raised concerns about the length of time remaining on her policy and 
that Avivas CMO referred to a 12 to 18 month recovery timeframe in order to see the full 
benefits of the surgery. She says this timeframe would exceed the term of the policy and so 
highlights the risk of a TPD claim not being paid. I think Ms Js concerns are understandable 
but Aviva can only pay out a claim when the policy term has been met. This means it being 
determined that Ms J is totally and permanently unable to follow her own occupation. And 
so, I think its reasonable for Aviva to want to assess the benefits of surgery as part of their 
assessment of any subsequent claim. That said, its not yet known how successful the 
surgery will be. Ms J can also contact Aviva post-surgery for this to be considered further at 
any time. Naturally, Aviva will again take into consideration the views of Ms Js consultant(s) 
and their own CMO when doing so. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Ms J is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Aviva acted unfairly or outside the policy terms when declining her TPD claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman