DRN-4039413
The complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited did not refund his purchase 
of some items he had returned, and closed his account without notice.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr A bought a plant and some other items from a garden centre. He paid 
£150.47 for them with his American Express card. He says that in September he returned all 
the items and asked for a refund, and tapped the same card on the card reader to receive 
the refund. But shortly afterwards, he discovered that instead of being refunded, the garden 
centre had charged him another £16.99.
Mr A asked American Express to refund both transactions. But American Express decided 
that there was not enough evidence to prove what had happened, and so it did not refund 
him. And in October it closed his account without notice, and without giving a reason. Mr A 
says that as a result he lost all of the Membership Rewards points he had collected on his 
card, and if he had been given time he could have transferred them to his account with a 
third party. He also said that the account closure had meant that he had missed his minimum 
payment for that month, which had been reported on his credit file. He had paid off his 
account balance as soon as he realised what had happened.
Mr A complained to our service, but our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She 
agreed that there was not enough evidence to show that Mr A had returned the items or that 
he was promised a refund, or that anything he had bought had been faulty. So she 
concluded that a chargeback would not have succeeded, and that American Express was 
not liable to Mr A under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
However, the investigator also said that the garden centre had not provided very much 
evidence either, and that American Express appeared to have just taken the garden centres 
word over Mr As. And she upheld Mr As complaint about his account being closed, as 
although American Expresss terms and conditions say that it can close an account at any 
time and without saying why, this was contrary to section 98A(4) of the Consumer Credit Act, 
which says that a reason must be given and the reason must be objectively justified. So 
she recommended that American Express pay Mr A £200 for the inconvenience caused to 
him. But she thought that American Express had forfeited his Membership Rewards points in 
accordance with its terms and conditions.
American Express accepted that recommendation. Mr A did not; he had previously asked for 
£900. So this case has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows (I have edited it slightly for accuracy).
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that there was not enough evidence for a chargeback to have succeeded. There is 
no evidence to show that the purchased items were returned or that the garden centre 
agreed to refund them. I also dont think Mr A has proved that there was a breach of contract 
or a misrepresentation for which American Express would be liable under section 75. There 
is no evidence that there was anything wrong with the plant, or with any other item, when 
Mr A bought them. So I think that American Express was not obliged to refund what he had 
paid, either in whole or in part.
I uphold Mr As complaint about the closure of his account. As the investigator has already 
pointed out, section 98A(4) required American Express to give Mr A reasons for terminating 
or suspending his right to draw on credit. And I would add that section 98A(3) says that two 
months notice must be given before terminating his credit agreement. If subsection (3) had 
not been breached, then Mr A need not have lost his Membership Rewards points  he had 
15,754  and it is unlikely (given his credit history) that he would have failed to pay off the 
account balance in time to avoid adverse information being recorded on his credit file.
I put all of this to American Express, which replied to re-iterate that its terms and conditions 
allow it to close an account immediately in certain circumstances. But section 173 of the Act 
prohibits contracting out of the protections in the Act. So while I am satisfied that American 
Express complied with its own terms and conditions, it still contravened section 98A.
American Express pointed out that its terms and conditions say that when an account is 
closed in accordance with those terms, any Membership Rewards points its customer had 
are lost. However, I dont think that American Express can reasonably rely on its terms in 
defence of a breach of the Act. As Ive said, if Mr A had been given the two months notice to 
which he was entitled, he would not have lost the points. So I am minded to require 
American Express to put that right. I have assumed that a point is worth 1p.
Mr A was entitled to be told the reason for his account being closed, and I have taken this 
into account when deciding how much compensation is fair. I agree with the investigator that 
£200 is fair compensation for his inconvenience.
I am currently minded to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further submissions I receive 
from the parties by the deadline below, I will order American Express Services Europe 
Limited to:
Pay Mr A £200 for his inconvenience,
Pay him £157.54 for his lost Membership Rewards points, and
Remove from his credit file the missed payment in the penultimate month of the 
agreement.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr A told me that if he had been given notice, he would have transferred his points to British 
Airways for Avios points, which he said would have been worth more than 1p each; about 
£280 in total. He provided a link to BAs website to show how much they were worth 
(approximately 1.7p).
American Express pointed out that the page on BAs website showed how much it would 
cost to buy Avios points, which was not the same as how much they would be worth if Mr A 
was spending them. It added that when Mr As account was closed, he forfeited 16,167 
Membership Rewards points.
Mr A argued that the value of Avios points when they are being spent is irrelevant, because 
in order to get back the 16,000 Avios points he would have got if American Express had let 
him transfer his Membership Rewards points, it would cost him about £280.My findings
My aim is to put Mr A back in the position in which he would have been if American Express 
had allowed him enough time to transfer his Membership Rewards points to BA. If that had 
happened, he would now have 16,167 Avios points. In order to have that many points now, 
I calculate that he will need to spend about £275 to buy them from BA. So I think it would be 
fair and reasonable to require American Express to reimburse him for that, as working out 
how much money Mr A would have saved by spending them depends on too many different 
factors.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order American Express Services Europe 
Limited to:
Pay Mr A £200 for his inconvenience,
Pay him £275 for his lost Membership Rewards points, and
Ask the credit reference agencies to remove from Mr As credit file the missed 
payment in the penultimate month of the agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman