DRN-3889120
The complaint
Mr P complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly failed to raise a chargeback claim in 
respect of a refund for returned items that a retailer had declined to make to him.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr P ordered a number of items from an online retailer. He paid via a third-
party payment provider although the payment was deducted directly from his bank account.
When the items arrived, Mr P decided to return them as he didnt want them. He obtained 
the returns label from the retailer and sent all the items back. When Mr P didnt receive the 
expected refund, he contacted the retailer via its online chat facility. On two separate 
occasions he was advised a refund would be processed.
Mr P was then informed by the retailer that it would not issue him with a refund and that it 
was closing his account. Mr P contacted Starling Bank and made a request for a 
chargeback. Starling Bank advised Mr P to first contact the third-party payment provider and 
seek a refund from them.
Mr P followed this advice, but his claim was declined. He says he was advised by the 
intermediary payment system provider to raise a chargeback with Starling Bank which he 
did.
Starling Bank started to investigate Mr Ps chargeback claim. It asked Mr P to provide the 
reasons for the retailer declining his refund and closing his account. Mr P didnt provide this 
information and says that although he asked the retailer for its reasons it didnt provide them.
In March 2022 Starling Bank told Mr P that it wasnt proceeding with his chargeback claim. It 
said it believed that the retailer, having declined Mr Ps refund already and closed his 
account, would defend the claim and that there was information missing to enable it to 
process a claim.
Mr P was unhappy at Starling Banks decision, and so he made a complaint to it about its 
handling of his claim. Starling Bank didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said it was satisfied 
that it had followed the correct process when dealing with Mr Ps claim and without an 
explanation as to why the retailer had declined to refund the returned items it wasnt able to 
proceed with a chargeback claim.
Mr P disagreed with Starling Banks view and made a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that she didnt 
think Starling Bank had acted unfairly when it had decided not to proceed with Mr Ps 
chargeback claim.
Mr P says that there isnt any evidence the decision to close his account and refuse his 
refund by the retailer had been based on a good cause. He also said that the retailer 
possibly deciding to defend the chargeback didnt justify Starling Bank not raising the 
chargeback. Mr P says that even if the chargeback request had been declined ultimately at 
least Starling Bank would have tried.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Mr P has disagreed with the involvement of the third-party payment provider as the 
body that may have had a liability for providing Mr P with a refund in these circumstances. 
But I think Starling Bank acted correctly in referring him to them since, by using the third-
party, this transaction shows on Mr Ps statement as being with the third-party provider and 
not the retailer. So, I disagree with Mr P that Starling Bank didnt follow the correct process 
here when it advised he should contact the third-party provider first.
Ive also seen that when Mr Ps claim with the third-party was declined Starling Bank then 
investigated whether a chargeback claim could be made. I would have expected it to take 
this action.
Chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing payments made on the card 
through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the card 
networks, here thats MasterCard. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed 
if there's a problem with the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to 
a chargeback and it isnt a guaranteed method of getting a refund.
And if Starling Bank feels that a claim won't be successful, then it doesnt have to raise 
a chargeback. So, Starling Bank isnt obliged to make a chargeback if it concludes that 
the chances of success would be remote. 
Here, the issue for me to consider is whether Starling Bank has handled Mr Ps claim 
for reimbursement of the returned items fairly. It isnt for me to decide whether a 
chargeback claim is successful.
Ive seen that after Mr P had returned the items to the retailer it had been processing a 
refund when, on review, it then made the decision not to provide the reimbursement and 
closed his account. Mr P says he hasnt been provided with the reason for that decision and 
so cant provide that information to Starling Bank.  
Starling Bank says that as the refund was declined, and Mr Ps account closed, then 
its likely the retailer would dispute the chargeback. It also says that without knowing 
why the retailer took the action that it did it isnt able to follow the process for a 
chargeback.
Ive seen that Mr P has asked the retailer for its reasons as to why they decided to 
close his account and he says he didnt get a response. But I think this is a significant 
step by the retailer and it is something I would expect Starling Bank to consider when it 
decided whether a chargeback claim should be pursued on Mr Ps behalf.  While I 
appreciate there isnt evidence the retailer had good cause to take this action equally 
there isnt evidence that it did so for a malicious or unjustified reason either. So, I dont 
think Starling Bank acted unfairly when it weighed up the actions of the retailer in 
reaching its decision about whether to pursue the chargeback. 
And I also think that Starling Bank was acting reasonably in assuming the retailer would 
defend a chargeback. The evidence showed the retailer had actively considered providing a refund but on review decided not to do so, it also acted against Mr Ps account. I think its 
reasonable to infer from these actions that the retailer isnt treating this as a straightforward 
return and refund situation and there isnt any evidence that the retailer operated a no 
refunds policy. So, in light of what had happened, I think Starling Bank has correctly 
considered the chargeback process and has reasonably concluded that the chance of 
success of such a claim on behalf of Mr P would be remote. 
For the reasons given above, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr 
P, Im satisfied that Starling Bank has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with his 
chargeback claim. Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman