DRN-3751161
The complaint
Gs complaint is about claim on its New India Assurance Company Limited Care Homes 
Policy.
G says the policy should have engaged when the Care Quality Commission issued a notice 
proposing to cancel its license.
G is helped by a representative in this complaint, but for ease of reading I shall refer to Gs 
submissions as its own.
What happened
In 2018 the Care Quality Commission issued a notice proposing to cancel Gs license and 
registration following a negative inspection rating. Shortly afterwards, the local authority 
removed the residents living at G. Without its residents, G was unable to continue running 
and went into administration later that year.
G is unhappy because it feels its New India policy should have engaged. Specifically, it has 
cited Section 12 of that policy which covers loss of registration of certificate.
New India didnt respond to Gs complaint about this matter when it was raised. An 
investigator considered Gs complaint against New India and concluded that it shouldnt be 
upheld. She said that New India hadnt declined Gs claim under Section 12 of its policy; 
rather it had asked for copies of all correspondence exchanged with the Care Quality 
Commission and G hadnt provided this. As things stood, she said it wasnt unreasonable 
that New India hadnt considered the claim because they werent able to make a decision. 
G isnt happy with this. It feels that New India didnt do enough to request further information 
from it when the claim was made and that they should have revisited things when G made its 
complaint about this. G says that New India are seeking to get out of the claim nearly four 
years after it was made by saying it needed further information that was never requested.
Because G doesnt agree with the investigators view, the matter has been passed to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
When G advised of a potential claim to New India, it did so through its insurance broker. 
Having considered the correspondence between the broker and New India, Im satisfied that 
the broker was, for all intents and purposes, acting as Gs agent in making the claim. New 
India did indicate that it thought this was a claim that wouldnt be covered under the policy, 
but it also asked for copies of all correspondence between G and the Quality Care 
Commission to consider things. 
Gs broker provided one letter from the Quality Care Commission to G in response, but it 
didnt provide all of the correspondence requested or confirm that there was no further 
correspondence to send. Because of this New India didnt formally decline the claim. Rather 
its last email to Gs broker pointed out that it wasnt in receipt of all the correspondence it 
requested. Because of this it neither declined or accepted the claim.  That was nearly four 
years ago.
G feels that further information should have been requested from G directly rather than 
through its insurance broker by New India. But Gs broker was acting on Gs behalf when 
making an enquiry about cover. So, I think it was reasonable for New India to take the view 
that its position had been communicated to G. If that didnt happen, thats a matter that G will 
need to take up with its broker and is not an issue I can determine within this complaint.
G is also unhappy that New India didnt then ask for the information it required to review the 
claim when it complained about its actions. As the investigator said, this Service cant 
consider complaints about the way in which a business has handled a complaint. At that 
stage G was making a complaint. And whilst its right that New India didnt provide a 
response, the rules that govern this Service mean that we were able to look into things 8 
weeks after Gs complaint was made. Its right that New India could have considered the 
claim again and told G again that it needed further information but I cant comment on or 
determine what it should have done at that stage because that falls out of my remit. 
I know G has taken the view that the investigator didnt properly consider its complaint when 
reaching her conclusions. G has had the benefit of the correspondence the investigator 
considered, which I agree with. If G wants New India to consider its claim, then it will need to 
provide New India with copies of all of the correspondence requested between it and the 
Quality Care Commission. If there is nothing further to send, then G should confirm this to 
New India. 
I know New India has indicated that Gs claim is unlikely to be one which attracts cover 
under the policy because G was placed in special measures around seven months before it 
notified New India of a claim and the policy contains a condition that policy holders must 
immediately notify them of actions like this. So, its possible that New India will decline Gs 
claim on receipt of the information requested. Thats not something I can address in this 
decision save to say that if G remains unhappy it should raise its concerns with New India in 
the first instance. If New India cant resolve things, then G will be entitled to complain to this 
Service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Gs complaint against The New India 
Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman