DRN-2248929
The complaint
Mr G complains that Metro Bank plc applied an incorrect exchange rate when a non-sterling 
payment was made into his account.
What happened
Mr G had an account with Metro. He says he received an international transfer of funds into 
his account through the SEPA (Single Euro Payments Area) system. He was expecting a 
payment of €840 (840 Euros). He says he expected Metro to convert this amount to sterling 
using the Mastercard exchange rate. But he says it used a different rate which meant he 
received less money.
Mr G says the only rate of exchange referred to in Metros Fee Information booklet is the 
Mastercard rate of exchange. He says this is the rate thats normally used, and its 
mentioned on Metros website. So, he says its fair and reasonable to expect Metro to use 
that rate when converting a payment received through the SEPA system. He complained to 
Metro.
Metro investigated his complaint. It said it hadnt made any errors. It said it had converted 
the payment using the correct exchange rate. Mr G wasnt satisfied with this response. He 
complained to our service. Metro told us it was satisfied it hadnt made any mistakes, but it 
would offer to pay Mr G £21.41 as a goodwill gesture. This was the difference between the 
rate that had been applied and the Mastercard rate.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint. He thought Metros terms and conditions had 
made clear that the Mastercard exchange rate only applied to debit card transactions. He 
thought the information Metro had provided was fair and reasonable. He said our service 
couldnt require Metro to update its fee information leaflet. Only a regulator could do that, 
and we did not act as a regulator.
He said that Metro had offered to pay Mr G £21.41 as a goodwill gesture. Mr G had declined 
that offer. But Metro had confirmed it was still open if Mr G had changed his mind.
Mr G didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules which apply to the information that should be provided to customers about foreign 
exchange rates are set out in the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations). 
The Regulations state that a payment service provider (in this case Metro) can use a 
reference exchange rate when converting foreign currency into sterling. 
The Regulations define what a reference exchange rate is. And, there are two types of 
exchange rate mentioned. The first is a rate which comes from a publicly available source. 
That would include the Mastercard exchange rate. The second type of reference exchange 
rate is one that is set by the payment service provider itself and which it makes available.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Gs account. In the section Reference rates 
and foreign-exchange rates the following wording appears:
We may change our foreign-exchange rates immediately and without telling you 
beforehand. This will not affect any transaction that we have agreed to carry out at a 
set exchange rate. We work out our foreign-exchange rates using the rates supplied 
to us from time to time by our chosen supplier. The rates supplied reflect movements 
in foreign-exchange markets.
The card scheme (for example Mastercard) will convert all card payments made in 
a currency other than sterling into sterling on the date it processes the transaction, 
using the exchange rate it uses for all sterling-based accounts, and a percentage 
commission which we set on the amount of the payment. (You can contact us to ask 
for details of the exchange rate.) This rate may not be the same as the rate that 
applied on the date the transaction was made, if the payment is processed by the 
card scheme after that date.
Its clear from the second paragraph in this extract that the rate which applies to card 
payments in a foreign currency is the Mastercard exchange rate. But, the transaction which 
Mr G complains about wasnt a card payment. It was an electronic payment into his account 
using the SEPA system. That type of payment is covered by the first paragraph in the extract 
above.
For payments which are not card payments, Metros terms and conditions state that it 
converts such payments using an exchange rate which it sets itself. As mentioned above the 
Regulations permit it to do this provided it makes the rate available.
Metro doesnt publish its own exchange rate on its website. But it says the rate is available if 
a customer contacts it. Ive looked at whether there is any regulatory requirement for Metro 
to publish its own exchange rate on its website or elsewhere. 
The Regulations require the rate to be made available. The regulatory guidance indicates 
that information of this nature can be made available by requiring the customer to take active 
steps to obtain it. Metro says the information is available if Mr G contacts it. He could phone 
it or enquire at one of its branches to ask for this information. So, the information about the 
exchange rate was available to Mr G here, even if it wasnt in the way he wanted or 
expected it.
Mr G has referred to information in Metros Fee Information document. That document 
mentions a service called receiving money from outside the UK and describes the fee as 
follows:
When receiving money from outside the UK we will convert the payment into your 
account at the exchange rate which applies at the time of the transaction. We will 
then add the payment to your account. 
Mr G says the exchange rate widely advertised on Metros website is the Mastercard 
exchange rate. And, if the Fee Information document was referring to a different exchange 
rate it shouldve made that clear. He says the Fee Information document is where this 
shouldve been mentioned. He thinks Metro appears to be hiding this information.Ive thought about what Mr G has said here. Ive looked at the Fee Information document.  I 
note it refers to several types of payments. In relation to card payments in a foreign 
currency, it doesnt mention the exchange rate at all. It refers only to specific fees which 
apply to foreign payments using the debit card. No fees are mentioned for receiving money 
from outside the UK  just the fact that the payment is converted using the exchange rate 
that applies at the time of the transaction.
An exchange rate is not a fee. Its used every time a payment is converted to sterling. So, I 
wouldnt expect it to be set out in a Fee Information document. I think the only reason the 
exchange rate is mentioned in the document under the heading Receiving money from 
outside the UK is to make clear that although no fee is applied to this type of payment, it will 
be converted to sterling using the exchange rate that applies at the time. So, I dont agree 
that Metro was trying to hide fees.
Having looked at the terms and conditions and the Fee Information document, Im satisfied 
the information provided is consistent. Both documents make it clear that the exchange rate 
used for a payment into the account, which is not made using the card scheme, will be 
Metros own exchange rate.
Once the payment was made, Id have expected Metro to inform Mr G what the actual 
exchange rate was that it used to convert the payment. I cant see where it did that. But Mr G 
has told us he was aware that the payment made to his account was €840 and after it was 
converted his account was credited with £714.59. Thats the amount that appeared on his 
statement. He was also aware that the rate of exchange used wasnt the Mastercard rate 
because, hes told us, if that rate had been used, he wouldve expected to be credited with a 
higher amount. So, I think he did have the information he needed about the payment into his 
account.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied Metros terms and conditions did make 
clear it would apply its own exchange rate to a payment of the type credited to Mr Gs 
account. And, I think it was fair and reasonable for it to do so.
Metro says it has offered to pay Mr G £21.41 as a gesture of goodwill. It says thats the 
difference he wouldve received if the Mastercard rate had been used. Metro has confirmed 
that offer is still open should he wish to accept it. And, Mr G should contact Metro if he 
wishes to accept the offer. I dont require Metro to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Metro Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman