DRN-3816994
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about a second charge loan they have with Elderbridge Limited. 
They are concerned about how much is still showing as being owed on the loan, given that 
they have paid all of the monthly payments on time. Mr and Mrs H are also concerned that 
because of this, the loan will have to be paid beyond Mr Hs retirement age, which they were 
told at the time of the sale wasnt allowed.
What happened
In November 2003 Mr and Mrs H took out a loan of £62,245, including the premium for 
payment protection insurance (PPI), over a term of 25 years. The interest rate applied to the 
loan was variable and the initial monthly payment was set at £545.38. The interest rate 
changed numerous times during the term and the monthly payment altered to reflect those 
changes.
Mr and Mrs Hs PPI policy was included in a redress scheme. Redress was paid to them in 
2008, however, they didnt use the money to reduce the balance of the loan.
 
In 2016 Mr and Mrs Hs loan was transferred to Elderbridge. Elderbridge didnt take 
responsibility for the actions of the original lender when this happened. 
At the beginning of April 2022 Mr and Mrs H raised a complaint with Elderbridge about the 
amount they had been told in April 2021 they would need to pay to settle the loan. This 
complaint was responded to by Elderbridge on 26 April 2022. It explained how the loan 
worked and how the settlement amount had been calculated. To show how the interest and 
capital reduced over the term of the loan, Elderbridge enclosed a statement of account for 
the loan since inception. This showed a then current balance of £38,112.66. 
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied by Elderbridges explanation and complained to us about the 
outstanding balance of the account, based on the most recent figures Elderbridge had 
provided. When they did, they also raised that they were now concerned that the amount 
outstanding on the loan would mean the loan going past Mr Hs retirement age, which they 
were told it wasnt allowed to at the time of the sale. 
Elderbridge provided a copy of its records relating to the complaint and the loan overall. It 
confirmed that the loan had been sold by an independent broker, which would be 
responsible for the advice Mr and Mrs H received in 2003, including that about the term of 
the loan. It confirmed details of the broker and that its complaints were now dealt with by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained how repayment loans work, in that the majority of the capital is paid off 
in the later years of the term. He was satisfied that Elderbridge had administered the loan in 
line with the terms and conditions and that there was no evidence the balance was higher 
than it should be. In relation to the term, the investigator pointed out that the loan had been 
set up with a term that ended after Mr Hs state retirement age.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman as they had become aware of a notice issued by the Office of 
Fair Trading (OFT) to the original lender in 2010 about its use of the interest rate variation 
clause in its loan agreements. Mr and Mrs H also said that the PPI was not fully repaid when 
the redress was paid out on this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly highlight that the loan was not sold to Mr and Mrs H by Elderbridge or the 
original lender. As such, if Mr and Mrs H have concerns about the advice they received at 
the time of the sale, that complaint should be referred to the responsible business, or in this 
case, the FSCS. If Mr and Mrs H want details to enable them to raise a complaint, they can 
contact our investigator for that information. 
In relation to the matter of the interest rate variations applied to the loan, that would be a 
complaint for the original lender to look into in the first instance. As such, we have referred 
Mr and Mrs Hs concerns to the original lender, and I wont comment on the matter further.
As for the term of the loan, as the investigator pointed out, the term was always set to end in 
2028. Given Mr Hs age in 2003, this would always have been beyond his state retirement 
age. If Mr and Mrs H are concerned that the current outstanding balance on the loan means 
that it wont be paid within the term, I would confirm that as long as they continue to make 
the payments required, it should be repaid and that is not something they need to worry 
about. 
In relation to the capital balance of the loan, I would firstly comment that the loan balance 
was not £52,000 at the start as Mr and Mrs H have recollected, it was over £62,000. This 
was made up of borrowing by Mr and Mrs H of £50,000 plus just over £12,000 for the PPI 
premium. While Mr and Mrs H were redressed for the PPI policy being mis-sold, they didnt 
reduce the loan balance by the amount they received. So the loan balance they are paying is 
still the residual amount from the slightly over £62,000 advance. As such, at the time the 
April 2022 statement was issued to Mr and Mrs H, they had paid approximately £24,000 off 
the capital balance, not £14,000 as they have said in their complaint.
Our investigator explained, in the early years of a repayment loan most of the payments 
made goes toward paying interest. More capital is paid each year and in the final years, 
most of the monthly payments will go toward paying capital. The statement in April 2022 
showed that there was still approximately £38,000 to repay in the final 6 years of the term. 
It also showed that Mr and Mrs H were paying over £8,300 each year toward the loan, which 
would appear to be sufficient to repay the loan and interest over the remaining term, 
assuming the interest rate doesnt change.
While the amount outstanding on the statements in 2021 and 2022 may have concerned 
Mr and Mrs H, I havent seen anything that shows that Elderbridge has administered their 
loan incorrectly or that the loan is not likely to be repaid within the original term, if they 
continue to make their payments each month in full and on time. As such, I cant find that 
Elderbridge has done anything wrong.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman