DRN-4086014
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC mishandling its 
mandate change, freezing its account and delaying the processing of its CHAPS payments.
Mr G, a director of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr G and a business partner bought S. In advance, Mr G initiated the 
process to change Ss bank mandate. However, several problems arose which meant the 
mandate wasnt changed in time. This caused S to have to find alternative ways by which to 
conduct its business.
In addition, in April 2022, Barclays froze Ss account due to fraud concerns. 
Also, over several months, S struggled to process some of its CHAPS payments due to 
Barclays security checks.
S complained. S told us that:
It had requested a mandate change in January 2022, which needed to be live by 1 
March, but was only achieved on 22 March. The delay was partly due to Ss 
application missing Mr Gs signature, but it was also due to Barclays incorrectly 
setting up the forms and misdirecting its communications. S had to travel to a 
Barclays branch on multiple occasions to get this fixed.
In April 2022, Barclays froze Ss accounts due to fraud concerns, which were never 
explained to S. This caused further inconvenience to Ss business.
Over a period of several months, Barclays repeatedly held up some of Ss CHAPS 
payments, which caused S substantial embarrassment and reputational harm and 
further costs. 
Barclays had offered .NET as an alternative solution but, although S asked in April 
2022 for this to be set up, it took several months to be operational. S frequently had 
to travel to a branch to make payments instead.
Barclays failed repeatedly over many months to update the contact details on the 
account, causing multiple errors in communication.
Barclays considered Ss complaint about the mandate change, frozen accounts and delayed 
CHAPS payments. It acknowledged that it had caused delays in updating the mandate, 
apologised and offered S £200 for the inconvenience caused. It did not agree that it had 
done anything wrong in relation to the account freeze or the processing of Ss CHAPS 
payments. It subsequently considered a specific delayed CHAPS payment and made a 
payment to S as a gesture of goodwill for additional costs incurred.
Not content with Barclays responses, Mr G brought Ss complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Ss complaint but said that, in his view, the account freeze and 
CHAPS payment issues werent due to errors by Barclays so it would be unreasonable to 
ask Barclays to cover losses caused by these events. He agreed that Barclays had made 
mistakes in updating Ss mandate but didnt think this had caused S any loss. Therefore, he 
thought the £200 offered by Barclays was fair compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Our investigator also explained that, where S had raised new issues, it would first need to 
raise these with Barclays before our service could consider them. Therefore, this decision 
does not address any delays by Barclays in setting up its .NET service for S, or any 
continued failure beyond the mandate change to update Ss contact details. S has also 
raised concerns about Barclays complaint handling procedures, but this is not an activity our 
service can consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between S and Barclays and considered 
all the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider 
central to this complaint. I have set out below my assessment of the three disputed issues.
Mandate change
In January 2022, S requested a change to the mandate in advance of the company transfer 
planned for March. However, the process involved delays by both sides. 
Initially, there was an inconsistency both in the name of the business and its registered 
address between Barclays records and those on Companies House. This took some time to 
resolve.
Mr G says that he notified Barclays of his updated contact information in September 2021, 
but it appears that these changes were not captured by Barclays on its systems. Mr G called 
Barclays in late February to request this change again. He says that he needed to update 
Ss contact details with Barclays on four or five further occasions.
Barclays has acknowledged that, when it sent the mandate change forms to S, they were 
sent with an incorrect business name on, and that it should have updated the name and 
address at the earliest opportunity. It has apologised for the delay this caused. It also 
acknowledged that there were occasions when its communication should have been clearer, 
which caused confusion.
But when S submitted the required forms, they were initially missing Mr G as a signatory, 
which also delayed matters. 
By late March, the mandate was correctly established.
Having looked carefully through the evidence provided by both S and Barclays, it appears to 
me that both parties caused some delay in the mandate change. It is impossible to quantify 
precisely the effect of each mistake, but both contributed to the revised mandate not being in 
place by 1 March.I can appreciate Mr Gs frustration that, having started the process in good time in January, 
the mandate wasnt changed by the date of transaction, which caused some embarrassment 
and inconvenience. However, I have not seen that Barclays made any firm commitment to 
how the long the process would take.
Mr G has set out various ways in which he believes the delayed change to the mandate 
affected Ss business. However, on the evidence provided, it is not clear to me that S 
suffered any direct loss. 
In considering how Barclays should compensate S for its part in causing the delays, I believe 
the £200 already offered to S is fair for the inconvenience caused and within the range that I 
would typically award in such circumstances.
Fraud blocks applied in April 2022
In April 2022, Barclays placed a series of blocks on Ss accounts. Barclays has explained 
that this action was taken due to information received by the bank and in line with its normal 
procedures. The blocks were removed a few hours later.
Ive looked into the explanation provided by Barclays for its actions, and it appears to me 
that Barclays acted in accordance with its policies, which are there to protect the assets of its 
customers. Therefore, I believe it acted appropriately in the circumstances and didnt do 
anything wrong.
For this reason, even though its actions might have caused S to incur some additional cost 
in the period its accounts were unavailable, and would no doubt have caused Ss directors 
some distress and inconvenience, I do not believe I can fairly require Barclays to 
compensate S for this.
Delays in processing payments
Ss business involves making many high-value payments by CHAPS transfer. The timing of 
these transactions is important to its customers, and therefore to Ss reputation and 
regulatory authorisations. S says that, over several months, Barclays blocked and delayed 
some of its payments, causing it to incur substantial additional costs and damage to its 
reputation, and requiring its directors to spend considerable time resolving matters. S 
provided examples of when things had gone wrong.
Ive looked into Ss CHAPS transactions and it is clear that the majority of its payments 
completed on the day of instruction. However, there are a few instances where that didnt 
happen. 
Barclays has explained that the problems resulted from necessary fraud checks. It says that, 
although it is very frustrating for a customer when a payment is referred for further checks, it 
has conducted each of Ss payment requests in line with its usual procedures, which require 
fraud checks. Where it identifies a potential risk, it then carries out additional checks. 
Having looked through the information provided about Ss CHAPS payments, it appears to 
me that this is what happened when there was a delay. Many of Ss requests took longer 
than S would have liked as Barclays checks held up the completion of the transaction but, in 
line with its standard commitment, most transactions still completed on the same day. I have 
seen some instances when the transaction didnt complete on the same day, but this is 
either because the request was submitted after Barclays cut-off time or because of the need 
for additional checks. This is in line with Barclays standard procedures and, as these checks are in place to protect its customers funds, I cannot say that Barclays did anything wrong in 
applying this extra protection.
I acknowledge that the delays in processing some of Ss payment requests caused S to 
incur additional costs, and some reputational harm. It also caused substantial inconvenience 
as its directors needed to attend a branch to authorise the payment. I also acknowledge that 
.NET, which was offered by Barclays to help address matters, took a while to set up.
Mr G has said that the compensation provided by Barclays in one instance of delay 
demonstrates its culpability and should therefore be reflected across all the delays it caused. 
However, the payment made by Barclays in that instance was a gesture of goodwill, and not 
because Barclays believed it had done anything wrong.
Even though the delays caused by Ss fraud checks resulted in some harm to S, as I do not 
believe that Barclays did anything wrong in how it applied those checks, I cannot fairly 
require it to provide any compensation to S.
Summary
Overall, I have considerable sympathy for Mr G and his business partner for the difficulties 
they have experienced in conducting their business through a series of circumstances in 
their banking relationship with Barclays. However, having looked carefully through matters, I 
have not seen evidence to show that Barclays did anything wrong in how it applied a freeze 
to Ss accounts or in how it held up some of Ss payments for fraud checks. I know Mr G will 
be disappointed by this decision. I have seen that Barclays caused some delay in changing 
Ss mandate in early 2022 but I believe the amount already offered by Barclays for this is 
fair.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay S £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman