DRN-3664910
The complaint
Mr R complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) failed to
transfer one of his personal pension (PP) policies.
What happened
In September 1991, Mr R asked Prudential to transfer two PP policies he held with it to a
new provider (Firm B). The transfer completed the following month, but it appears Prudential
traced Mr R in or around 2017 on the understanding he still had a PP policy with it worth
around £27,000 (Policy A). In mid-August 2021, after getting in touch with Prudential on
different occasions to find out his options for Policy A, he complained that hed previously
asked for this to be transferred to Firm B in the 1990s, which wasnt actioned. And that hed
found out hed need to pay a financial adviser to set up drawdown on this when itd
previously told him he could do this himself.
Prudential responded later that month apologising if it wasnt made clear that an adviser
must set up drawdown, whose fees would apply. It said it couldnt find a previous request to
transfer Policy A to Firm B though. And it offered him £125 for the distress and
inconvenience caused by this and for the customer service hed received. Following further
contact from Mr R, Prudential gave a second final response saying it couldnt see whether
his transfer request had included Policy A due to the passage of time. It offered Mr R a
further £125 compensation and said it had provided internal feedback. And, on both
occasions, it invited him to send in supporting evidence of his transfer request.
Unhappy with this, Mr R came to our service about Prudentials failure to transfer Policy A,
adding that hes lost out on the performance of this as a result and that hell have pay a
financial adviser to discuss his options on it. Mr R also went on to obtain information from
Firm B, which said it received the transfer of two policies from Prudential in 1991, including
Policy A.
After Prudential confirmed in writing that it consents to us considering Mr Rs complaint if it
has been brought to us outside our timescales, one of our investigators looked into his
complaint. She said the evidence shows Prudential successfully transferred Policy A to
Firm B in 1991 but didnt update its records to reflect this, leading to confusion and Mr R
being told he had a live policy with it. She said Prudential should pay Mr R a further £200
compensation to make up for this and the trouble he was put to, taking total compensation to
£450. She also said there was no evidence Mr R had been financially disadvantaged as a
result though.
Mr R didnt agree. In summary, he said Prudential had a duty to take reasonable care, its
acted negligently and misled him into thinking Policy A, or at least part of it, hadnt
transferred across and that he still had a pension with it worth around £27,000 as a result.
And that he sought advice and planned his retirement on that basis, including stopping
making contributions to his plan with Firm B. So, he feels Prudential should honour the
£27,000 it led him to thinking he still had with it. Mr R also said Prudential hasnt acted in line
with principle 7 of the Principles for Business. And that this matter has impacted severely on
his mental health.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaints been passed to me for a decision. And 
I issued a provisional decision saying the following:
Mr R says Prudential has breached Principle 7 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)
Principles for Business in particular, which says a firm must pay due regard to the
information needs of its clients, and communicate with them in a way thats clear, fair and
not misleading. As a regulated business Prudential had a responsibility to follow the
Principles, which Ive had regard to when reaching my provisional decision.
Having considered all the information, I think its likely Prudential transferred Policy A to
Firm B in 1991, but it didnt update its systems to reflect this in error, which meant it later
mis-led Mr R into believing he still had a pension with it when he didnt. I say this because
evidence from Firm B shows that Policy A was successfully transferred to it in 1991. And
Prudentials shown us its carried out a calculation to see what Policy A would have been
worth at the time, which I can see is in line with the amount it transferred to Firm B for this. In
which case, whats left for me to decide is whether Prudential needs to do anything further to
put this right.
Mr R says Prudential should honour the £27,000 it led him to believe he had with it. But 
I cant fairly ask it to do that, as Mr R was never entitled to it. I can see that in January 2022
Mr R spoke with a financial adviser about transferring his entire pension provision to a new
provider to purchase on annuity though, which appears to have taken into account the
additional pension he thought he had with Prudential. But I cant safely say Mr R wouldnt
have sought and paid for this help with retirement planning in any case. I say this because
I can see he transferred his pension with Firm B to a new provider recently anyway, after
finding out he didnt have an additional pension with Prudential. And, while Mr Rs said he
stopped contributing to his pension with Firm B due to Prudentials error, information from
Firm B shows he stopped doing so a number of years ago. So I cant say Mr Rs been
financially disadvantaged by Prudentials error.
That being said, Mr R spent time making enquiries with Prudential across the course of
around three years about what to do with a policy he doesnt have with it, as well as Firm B
as a result. This matter has clearly and understandably caused Mr R confusion and
frustration, as well as inconvenience. Prudential mis-led him into thinking he had an
additional pension that was worth a significant amount, raising his expectations. And I think
that finding out this isnt the case has caused Mr R a great deal of upset and disappointment,
to the extent that hes explained this has significantly affected his mental health. In which
case, I currently think Prudential should pay Mr R a further £750 compensation on top of the
£250 its already offered him, taking total compensation to £1,000. I think this is a fair and
reasonable amount in the circumstances to make up for its error and the impact on Mr R.
While Prudential said it accepts my provisional decision, Mr R doesnt accept it. He said hes 
been severely messed around by Prudential and that it has ruined his plans. He said he was 
mis-led across years over the phone and in writing. He said he cant compensate for 
Prudentials error now and that if hed known he didnt have Policy A from the outset he 
could have made other plans to suit his circumstances. He said hes spent hours trying to 
sort this matter out. And that Prudential should be fined or punished, so that it doesnt do this 
again. He said he has no further information to provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.While I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling, our role isnt to fine or punish Prudential for its 
errors. Thats the role of the regulator of financial businesses  The Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead the role of our Service is resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. And if we decide something has gone wrong wed ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as possible, in the position they 
would have been in if the mistake hadnt occurred.
Mr R says Prudentials error has impacted on his retirement plans. And I recognise he might 
have had to re-think any plans he had in mind which included Pension A as a result. But, for 
the reasons Ive already given, I cant say he has been financially disadvantaged by it  I 
havent seen anything to persuade me he would be in a different position if Prudential hadnt 
made this error. 
Instead, Ive explained that I think Mr Rs experienced a loss of expectation, as he doesnt 
have as big a pension pot as Prudential led him to believe he did for a significant period of 
time. And Ive taken into account the disappointment, confusion and upset I think this error 
has understandably caused Mr R when recommending Prudential pay him £1,000 in total 
compensation. For the reasons Ive given, I think this is a fair and reasonable amount in the 
circumstances to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R and Im not 
asking Prudential to do any more than this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I partially uphold Mr Rs complaint and require 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay him £1,000 in total compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman