DRN-2698385
The complaint
Mr S has complained about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited handled his claim 
made after his car was damaged in a collision.
What happened
Mr S contacted Markerstudy on 16 October 2018, reporting that he had been car-jacked the 
night before, during and just after which his car had collided with objects and other vehicles. 
Markerstudy began investigating the claim; assessing Mr Ss car, as well as one of the 
third-party cars damaged during the incident and applying for the police report. It was 
May 2019 when the police report was received.
In August 2019 Markerstudy told Mr S it had some concerns about the claim. It set out a list 
of discrepancies. Whilst Mr S sought to explain these, Markerstudy ultimately said it felt Mr S 
had misled it about the claim. It referred to the fraud condition of the policy which allows it to 
decline claims and cancel policies where fraud occurs. Mr S didnt challenge Markerstudys 
decision. But he then found out Markerstudy had already sold his car.
Markerstudy had determined Mr Ss car to be a total loss. Due to an administrative error it 
then sold Mr Ss car in August 2019, whilst it was still preparing to tell Mr S about the 
discrepancies it had concerns about. Mr Ss car was subject to a finance agreement with the 
finance company being the legal owners of the car. Following Markerstudy deciding the 
claim had been fraudulent it negotiated with the finance company and paid the finance 
company £12,200, being the sale price achieved for the car. However, this left Mr S needing 
to pay around £12,000 to the finance company outright  he could no longer pay it monthly. 
He felt this shortfall was Markerstudys fault, as if it hadnt sold his car he could have got it 
back and continued with the finance agreement. He noted he also couldnt rely on his GAP 
insurance because the damage claim had been declined.
Markersturdy said it didnt believe Mr S had suffered any financial loss due to it having sold 
the car. But it accepted it had caused some delays in handling the claim and offered Mr S 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted the policy didnt require Markerstudy 
to obtain Mr Ss consent to sell the car and that the finance company were the owners. He 
also felt it was relevant that the repair cost for the car (if it had been returned to Mr S) had 
been estimated to be far in excess of the shortfall figure Mr S had been left to pay the 
finance company. Our investigator noted that during the claim Mr S had continued to pay his 
insurance premium and the monthly amount due to the finance company. But he felt Mr S 
had needed to do so and that the claim would always have taken a substantial time to 
resolve. He noted there had been some delay, which Markerstudy had accepted. But for this 
he felt £100 compensation, as offered by Markerstudy, was fair and reasonable. Overall, he 
didnt think Markerstudy selling Mr Ss car when it had, had left Mr S at a disadvantage. 
Mr S said Markerstudy had clearly failed to follow the correct process when it had sold the 
car, as it had done this before the claim had been decided. Mr S argued that Markerstudys 
actions prevented him from properly challenging the repair value which he believes has been 
exaggerated, with the car not actually having been written off. He also said again that 
whilst its true he would have remained liable for anything outstanding in the finance 
agreement, the return of the car to him would have meant his monthly payment agreement 
for the car could have continued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr S thinks the car wasnt really written off, as this isnt showing on a recent HPI 
check. I cant say why that detail might not show. But all of the evidence Markerstudy 
submitted to this service, and the actions it took, particularly in selling the car, speak to the 
fact it dealt with the car and claim as one of total loss, or write-off. 
I think its fair to say that, regardless of whether consent should have been sought from 
Mr S, Markerstudy shouldnt have sold the car when it did. But Im not persuaded that this 
action has most likely left Mr S in a detrimental position, either emotionally or financially. 
If Markerstudy hadnt sold the car it would have been returned to Mr S. However, it isnt clear 
if the finance company would have wanted to take the car back at that time. Or if it would 
have let Mr S complete the repairs whilst continuing with the agreement. But even if it had 
allowed Mr S to do that, the initial estimate for repairs was more than £17,000 (more than 
70% of the market value of the car). The estimate was completed by a qualified inspector 
using an industry repair calculator. When repairs of this nature commence its not unusual 
for the initial estimate to increase as more damage is often discovered once the car is 
stripped for repair. Im not persuaded that its likely the initial estimate was flawed, or that, if 
it was, it was so flawed that Mr S would have been able to complete a repair himself, using 
authorised parts etc, for less than £12,000. And I think that if the finance company had 
allowed Mr S to do the work it wouldve expected that to be done in short order. So if 
Markerstudy had returned the car to Mr S, rather than having sold it, and if the finance 
company had let Mr S keep the car and do the repairs, hed have had a relatively immediate 
and significant outlay for that work. And that would likely have been in excess of the actual 
immediate outlay he had to pay the finance company because Markerstudy had sold the car. 
I appreciate that Mr S had to keep the finance and insurance premium payments going 
whilst the claim was being considered. But I dont think Markerstudy caused much of a 
delay. It should have communicated with Mr S better and I think the time between receipt of 
the police report in May 2019 and the discrepancy letter being issued in August 2019 could 
have been condensed. But Mr S paying the finance agreement over those months meant the 
shortfall was less when the claim was declined. And Mr S was always obliged to pay his 
insurance premium as a claim was being considered. 
That said a delay at this time was likely frustrating and I note Markerstudy has offered £100 
compensation in this respect. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
With regret for any update this causes Mr S, on this occasion, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not persuaded Markerstudy reasonably needs to do anything more. 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman