DRN-1423967
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) sold by 
Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester. The mortgage was a joint one 
issued in the names of Mr H and Miss K, in 2001. The MPPI seems to have been applied, 
also jointly, when Mr H and Miss K were borrowing more money in 2003.
For consistency Ill refer to Lloyds in my decision.
What happened
One of our adjudicators said the complaint about the policy being mis-sold shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr H and Miss K disagree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. 
The central point of Mr Hs and Miss Ks complaint is that they never agreed to this cover 
and werent aware they had any MPPI with their mortgage. However, Im afraid I think 
theres quite strong evidence that they both agreed to it. I also think they would have known 
they had it in place. I accept they may have forgotten about this now after so long.
The documents Ive seen show that when they first took out their mortgage in 2001, they 
declined to have MPPI when they signed the relevant forms. By definition then we can say 
they would probably know that having MPPI wasnt something that was compulsory for them.
But we also know that in 2003 when they were taking out the further advance, Mr H and 
Miss K opted to have the new part of their lending protected by an MPPI policy. They agreed 
to it on their mortgage application form and they were also then required to fill out and sign a 
specific MPPI application form to get the policy. To me, this shows they went through a 
number of different steps to get the cover set up.
Theres no dispute MPPI was indeed sold, so Ive got no reason to suppose that the third-
party insurers wouldnt have sent Mr H and Miss K a policy certificate (or similar) and details 
about their purchase. I also note they were sent a number of letters after the sale when the 
payment of their direct debit became a problem for some reason. One such letter said: 
We write with regard to the collection of your C&G Payment Protection Plus Insurance 
premiums. As weve been unable to get your bank/building societys permission to use the 
direct debit form that you originally sent us, please complete and return the form overleaf in 
the pre-paid envelope provided along with a cheque for the outstanding amount of £9 90. The 
cheque should be made payable to. 
They duly sent a personal bank cheque, signed by Mr H, and completed another direct debit 
instruction for the £9.90 MPPI premium. So Im afraid all these things are strong evidence in 
my view of their consent to and awareness of the MPPI.
Its not disputed that the MPPI was recommended as part of an advised sale. This means 
Lloyds had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable. I think it was.
I think this because Mr H and Miss K were both eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Both were employed and I 
agree they would have some sickness protection with their jobs. However, their mortgage 
was secured against their home and so the consequences of not being able to make the 
repayments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the MPPI would 
have paid the further advance part of the mortgage for up to 12 months. This would have 
been in addition to the other means they already had in place.
I therefore dont think recommending MPPI was unreasonable.
Lloyds also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously 
cant confirm what would have been said at the meeting(s) and its possible Lloyds could 
have done a better job in explaining things. But from what Ive seen, I think the disclosure of 
information looks relatively comprehensive. It would also have been easy to see the cost of 
the monthly MPPI premiums. I therefore think Mr H and Miss K had enough information on 
which to make an informed choice about what they wanted to do.
I dont think the MPPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman