DRN-2921730
The complaint
Mr H complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
MoneyBoat provided Mr H with two loans. The details are set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 14/11/2017 19/12/2017 2 £250
2 09/01/2018 27/07/2018 2 £400
Mr H says that he took out a high number of short term loans with several different lenders. 
He says many of his loans were overlapping and that he needed to borrow more in order to 
meet his repayments.
MoneyBoat says that before the loans were provided it carried out affordability and credit 
checks. It says that Mr H was required to provide accurate information about his income and 
expenses and that it increased the expenses included in its assessment following the results 
of the credit check. It says that based on the information received the loans were affordable 
for Mr H. It also noted that Mr H repaid the first loan early and that he didnt raise any 
concerns that he was experiencing financial difficulties at the time.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. He noted that the credit check showed regular credit 
commitments significantly higher than Mr H had declared and thought further questions 
should have been asked. He said that had this happened it would have most likely shown 
that Mr H was having problems managing his money having several loans with other short 
term lenders outstanding at the time. He thought proportionate checks would have shown 
that it was unlikely Mr H wouldve been able to sustainably repay loan 1 and any subsequent 
loan.
MoneyBoat didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that the checks carried out were 
proportionate. It said that in the early stages of a lending relationship most decisions are 
automated, and it wasnt reasonable nor a requirement for it to go through each line of the 
credit check. It also challenged certain assumptions made by our adjudicator regarding 
Mr Hs payments towards his other credit commitments at the time of the loan.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before the first loan was provided, MoneyBoat carried out affordability and credit 
checks. I thought these checks would have been proportionate if the results didnt 
raise concerns that meant further investigation was needed. Our adjudicator thought 
the credit check raised concerns that meant further checks were needed. I have 
looked through the credit report from the time and while I noted there was adverse 
information recorded, I didnt think it was enough to say further checks were required. 
Mr H repaid his first loan early and then took out a larger loan less than a month 
later. The credit search carried out before this loan was provided showed Mr H was 
making use of other short term loan providers and in this case had taken out two 
loans in the previous month. The regular payments noted on these loans totalled 
around £950. I thought that this should have raised concerns that meant further 
investigation was required to ensure the loan was sustainably affordable.
Had further checks been carried out before loan 2 was provided MoneyBoat would 
have realised that Mr H had several short term loans outstanding with other providers 
showing that he was struggling to manage his money. I thought this raised concerns 
that Mr H wouldnt be able to sustainably repay this loan and I upheld this complaint 
in regard to loan 2.
Mr H acknowledged my provisional decision. MoneyBoat didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Having considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and as no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my 
conclusions havent changed.
I do not think there is enough to say that further checks were required before the first loan 
was provided and as the checks suggested the loan was affordable I do not find I can say 
this loan shouldnt have been provided.
I think that the information gathered before the second loan was provided raised concerns 
that required further investigation. Had this happened MoneyBoat would have realised Mr H 
was making use of other short term lenders at the time and was struggling to manage his 
money. Therefore I do not think it reasonable that this loan would have been considered 
sustainably affordable for Mr H and I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 2.
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided loan 2 to Mr H.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. 
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat should:
refund Mr H all interest and charges he paid towards loan 2 along with interest of 8% 
simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement*; and
remove any adverse information regarding this loan from Mr Hs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 2. Evergreen Finance 
London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman