DRN-2634274
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund them, after they fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr H says he was approached by a broker who said they worked for a company, Ill refer to 
as company A. The broker encouraged Mr H to invest with company A, saying he would be 
taught how to use their system of financial investment to buy and sell commodities to make a 
profit. Mr H says he was assured that he could not lose provided he invested a suitable 
amount.
Mr H says the training sessions to use their system took several months and were 
informative and showed great promise of large returns, provided he continued investing 
more money. Mr H says that he was constantly pushed to invest more money to increase his 
portfolio, which he did until eventually he lost everything.
Mr H says after losing his money, they contacted him saying that as he was such a good 
customer they would loan him a sum of money with which to continue investing, with the 
view that if he was successful he could withdraw sums to cover his earlier losses. Mr H said 
this sounded like a good idea, so he agreed to it. 
Initially Mr H made a small investment of €250 in July 2018, from another bank. He made a 
further two payments from that same bank in the amounts of €4,000 and €1,000 in August 
2018. 
Then Mr H sent three payments from his HSBC account, which he held jointly with Mrs H. In 
September 2018, he transferred £20,000 with a further payment of £22,500 in October 2018 
and a final payment also in October 2018 of £44,000. In total Mr and Mrs H transferred 
£86,500 from their HSBC account.
Mr and Mrs H didnt receive any of their funds back and company As website closed down.
Mr H raised a complaint with HSBC, saying theyd been the victims of a scam and asking for 
their money to be refunded.
HSBC investigated Mr and Mrs Hs claim but declined to refund them, saying that the 
payments had been authorised and processed in accordance with Mr Hs instructions.
Mr H wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. She felt the 
payments werent unusual or out of character compared to Mr and Mrs Hs previous account 
use, as such she didnt think HSBC had missed an opportunity to identify that they were 
potentially victims of a scam. Also, she felt HSBC had made reasonable efforts in trying to 
recover Mr and Mrs Hs money. The investigator didnt recommend that HSBC refund Mr 
and Mrs H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly in processing Mr and Mrs Hs payments, or 
whether they shouldve done more to prevent the payments from being made.
Should HSBC have done more to prevent the payments?
Mr and Mrs H feel that HSBC failed to alert them to the potential scam, and that any basic 
online search wouldve revealed the warnings and bad reviews relating to company A. Mr 
and Mrs H also feel that HSBC should beef up their security processes and software in 
order to keep their funds safe.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs view that HSBC shouldve done more, there is a balance 
that has to be struck between HSBC identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent 
 and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to 
legitimate payments. So, Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Hs previous account use to see whether 
the payments they made to company A were so unusual and out of character that I think 
they shouldve flagged with HSBC as a sign that Mr and Mrs H were potentially the victims of 
a scam.
The three payments that Mr and Mrs H made were for £20,000, £22,500 and £44,000. The 
first payment was made in September 2018, the second payment was made three weeks 
later, and the final payment was made two days later. These amounts on their own are 
significant. And Mr and Mrs H have set out their reasons why they think the payments 
shouldve stood out, which Ive carefully considered.All three payments were made by bank transfer to the same payees international bank 
account. But this wasnt the first time Mr and Mrs H had made an international payment or 
the first time they had set up a new payee. Theyd done an international transfer a few 
months prior for £36,000. Also, Mr and Mrs H had made other large payments out of their 
account. Within the prior 12 months theyd paid out a cheque for over £18,000, a direct debit 
for over £5,000 as well as other bill payments and card payments for several thousand 
pounds. 
Considering all the factors about the payment sizes, proximity of the dates of the payments, 
the effect on the account balance and previous payments that Mr and Mrs H had made  Im 
not persuaded that these three payments were sufficiently unusual or out of character 
whereby I think HSBC shouldve been alerted to the fact that Mr and Mrs H mayve been the 
victims of a scam. 
I know that Mr H completed the second payment by ringing HSBC and having one of their 
staff set up the payment for him. And while I appreciate that Mr H may feel that HSBC 
shouldve been more alert to his situation, the payment was to an existing payee (same as 
the first payment made), was made three weeks after the first payment (so wasnt part of a 
number of payments made in quick succession), and was for roughly the same amount as 
the first payment to the same payee. Based on this I wouldnt have expected HSBC to be 
alerted or expected them to question or probe Mr H as to what the payment was for. On that 
basis Im not persuaded that HSBC shouldve stepped in or intervened prior to processing 
Mr Hs payment as per his instructions. 
Mr and Mrs H also feel that HSBC shouldve known that the payments were going to a 
scammer. But this was an international payment, so HSBC wouldnt have had any 
information on the account the money was going to. Also, these payments were made prior 
to the introduction of Confirmation of Payee (COP) whereby the sending bank checks the 
payee name recorded by the customer matches the name held by the receiving bank. So, I 
wouldnt have expected HSBC to know anything about the account Mr and Mrs H were 
transferring their funds to.  
Mr and Mrs H also highlighted that any basic searches wouldve identified that this 
investment was part of a scam. But as I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have intervened 
prior to processing the payments, I cant fairly say they shouldve done any checks or 
searches as suggested by Mr and Mrs H. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs H feel that HSBC have failed to meet their obligations to 
safeguard their funds. But based on what Ive seen I cant fairly say that there was enough 
about the three payments, whereby I wouldve expected them to concern HSBC that Mr and 
Mrs H might be at risk of being scammed. Therefore, Im not persuaded that HSBC acted 
unreasonably in processing the payments.
But Ive also considered whether HSBC couldve done more to try and retrieve the funds, 
once Mr and Mrs H made them aware theyd been the victim of a scam.
Could HSBC have recovered the funds for Mr and Mrs H?
In this case the funds were transferred to an international bank account. International banks 
arent bound by the same rules and regulations as banks within the UK. In this case HSBC 
contacted the receiving bank and asked for the funds to be returned to Mr and Mrs H. But 
HSBC is reliant upon the international bank choosing to return funds. They cant require or 
force them to and unfortunately no funds have been returned. From what Ive seen HSBC have done what they shouldve to try and recover the funds for Mr and Mrs H, but have been 
unable to obtain a refund for them.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H have lost a considerable sum of money, and this has been 
very difficult and upsetting for them. But based on everything Ive seen, I cant fairly ask 
HSBC to refund them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman