DRN-4172977
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was mis-sold a timeshare product in 2007. To finance the purchase, 
he took out a loan, responsibility for which has now been transferred to Shawbrook Bank 
Limited. He says that this arrangement means that Shawbrook is responsible for the actions 
of the seller, but it has not met his claims. 
Mr L has had professional representation in bringing this complaint, so where I refer to his 
submissions and arguments I include those made on his behalf.   
What happened
In January 2007 Mr L bought a points-based timeshare product and membership of a holiday 
club from a seller which Ill call C. The price included a trade-in value, so it appears he was 
an existing member at the time. 
The purchase was financed in part with a loan from a finance company, which Ill call G. In 
2020 G transferred some of its business  including Mr Ls loan  to Shawbrook. 
Mr L was not happy with the timeshare he had bought, and in 2016 he complained to C 
about representations that had been made at the time of sale. Specifically, he mentioned 
maintenance fees, availability of accommodation and potential resale values. C did not 
respond to Mr Ls satisfaction, although he took matters no further at that point. 
In January 2021 Mr L contacted G. He repeated that he thought the timeshare had been 
mis-sold and misrepresented and said that G was responsible for the actions of C at the time 
of sale. In addition, he said that this meant that the loan agreement created an unfair 
relationship. G referred the matter to Shawbrook. 
Shawbrook responded to say that it would not be addressing the matter as it thought it had 
been brought outside the relevant time limits in our rules. Those rules generally require a 
complainant to refer a complaint to this service within six years of the complaint arising or, if 
later, within three years of a complainant knowing they have cause for complaint. 
Mr L referred the matter to this service. Shawbrook continued to argue that it had been 
referred too late and that we therefore had no power to consider it. In February 2023 an 
ombudsman issued a decision concluding that we could in fact consider the complaint. He 
noted that the complaint about Shawbrook was in reality a complaint about its handling of Mr 
Ls claims about the actions of C. Those claims had been made  and handled by 
Shawbrook  relatively recently. 
The ombudsman noted however that any further outcome would need to give careful 
consideration to the operation of the Limitation Act 1980.
Our investigator therefore went on to consider the merits of Mr Ls complaint about 
Shawbrook. She issued a preliminary assessment on the merits which said, in summary:
It was likely that any claim against C for misrepresentation would now be out of time. 
Shawbrook was entitled to decline that claim.
There was no evidence of any breach of contract. 
She was not persuaded that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship. 
There was no evidence that the lending decision was flawed. 
Mr L did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint about the credit assessment
Mr L says that G did not properly assess whether he could afford the loan in January 2007. 
Because Shawbrook has taken over the loan, it is now responsible for that omission. 
The Financial Ombudsman Services powers to consider complaints about consumer credit 
activities carried by what were then Office of Fair Trading licensees did not come into effect 
until 6 April 2007, when the services consumer credit jurisdiction came into being. Before 
that, the service could consider complaints about consumer credit activities, but only if they 
were ancillary to another activity (for example, banks granting loans or issuing credit cards) 
or were carried out by a business which was subject to our voluntary jurisdiction. G was not 
covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service in January 2007. It follows that I have no 
power to consider a complaint about its actions or omissions in agreeing to provide the loan 
and no power to consider this part of the complaint about Shawbrook. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. It is 
however not entirely clear that it was financed under pre-existing arrangements between G 
and C. The intermediary named on the finance agreement is not the same as the seller of 
the timeshare and club membership. This is not a point which Shawbrook as raised, 
however, and I have therefore approached the matter on the basis that the necessary links 
were in place.   
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr L into the timeshare contract were made on or before 25 January 2007; since it appears he was already a club 
member, its possible that he relied on what he had been told or his own experiences even 
before that. Mr L did not however raise any complaint with Shawbrook until more than 14 
years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for 
misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
Mr L says that the time limit is extended where there is fraud or concealment. I do not accept 
that is generally the case or that it would apply here. And the matters which Mr L referred to 
Shawbrook were not concealed in any event; he was aware of them at the latest when he 
complained to C in 2016.  
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of Shawbrook to the claim 
under section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that the 
claims are time-barred, I think it was. 
The usual time limit for bringing a claim for breach of contract is six years from the date of 
breach. Mr L has said that he has never been able to use the services, although he has 
provided little detail about why that is. But if it is correct that no services have been provided, 
that must have been the case for many years. So any claim based on those matters would 
now be outside the time limits in the Limitation Act. 
It appears that one or more of the companies linked to the seller is no longer trading. That is 
not however a breach of contract if  as I believe to be the case  the services are still being 
provided. 
In considering a claim brought under section 75, a lender can rely on any defence open to 
the supplier, including limitation defences. In the circumstances, I believe that Shawbrooks 
response to these parts of the claim was reasonable. 
 Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether to make an order, a court can have 
regard to any connected agreement; that could include an agreement for the sale of goods 
or service financed by the credit agreement. 
Sections 140A and 140B did not come into force until after the completion of the loan 
agreement, although they replaced similar provisions relating to extortionate credit 
bargains. 
Only a court can make an order under section 140B (or its predecessor, section 139). An 
ombudsman can however make an award which might require a lender, for example, to write 
off a loan or to refund payments  if they consider it would constitute a fair and reasonable 
resolution of a complaint. I am not persuaded however that I should make an award in those 
or similar terms in this case. I do not believe that Mr L has shown that the actions of C or G 
or Shawbrook are such as to warrant it. My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman