DRN-2214517
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in 
2003. The policy was sold by Derbyshire Building Society, but Nationwide Building Society is 
now responsible for the complaint. Ill therefore refer mainly to Nationwide in this decision.
Miss B and Mr G say Nationwide mis-sold this cover to them. The policy covered losing 
ones job or being unable to work because of ill health.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in September 2020. 
In this I explained that Nationwide has offered to pay back part of the MPPI costs because it 
admits part of the cover wasnt suitable for Mr G due to his self-employment status when he 
was sold the policy. But it hasnt offered to pay back all the money it got from the sale. This 
is because although Nationwide seems to accept part of the policy was mis-sold, it maintains 
other elements of the cover were correctly sold.
In my provisional decision I explained that I didnt agree with this; I thought all the money for 
the MPPI should be refunded, with interest, to Miss B and Mr G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B and Mr G responded saying they agreed with my provisional findings. Nationwide 
hasnt responded with any new information, but Ive nevertheless looked very carefully over 
the evidence again in deciding this case.
Having done this, I am upholding the complaint in full in accordance with the views I 
comprehensively set out in my provisional decision. 
The crux of this complaint relates to whether the entire MPPI policy was mis-sold, rather 
than part of it as Nationwide seems to think. Currently, Nationwide has only offered to pay 
back Mr Gs portion of the policy  and even then, only the portion relating to the 
unemployment cover (not the sickness element). 
I still think this is wrong and that the whole policy was mis-sold to both Miss B and Mr G. 
This is because Mr Gs self-employed status was very clear when he and Miss B took out 
the mortgage. The MPPI sale that was sold to them, jointly, at the same time was an 
advised sale. So Miss B and Mr G had, in my view, every right to expect they would be 
competently advised and that the MPPI they were sold was suitable for their joint 
circumstances. They also had a right to clear information, particularly about the important 
features of the MPPI such as what it did and didnt cover.
The MPPI was not suitable for them because making a claim for unemployment in respect of 
Mr G would have almost certainly not been possible as the rules about this were onerous for 
self-employed people. This key feature should have been pointed out to them.
The MPPI was apportioned to specifically fit Miss B and Mr Gs situation, with Mr G being 
covered for 75% of the potential benefit and Miss B, 25%. But even though Nationwide 
seems to accept that a mis-sale occurred, it has subsequently picked the cover apart and 
offered only Mr Gs part of the unemployment element back. 
I explained in my provisional decision that Nationwide had implied it had done very little 
wrong and this no doubt formed part of its decision to pay only a part of the MPPI cover 
back. But I disagree with this. When Miss B and Mr G took the policy out, they no doubt did 
so on the recommendation of a salesperson they trusted. They bought the policy jointly on 
the basis of the information they were given, and the policy was split in accordance with that 
advice. In my view, had they known the advice was plainly wrong and the policy ill-suited 
their joint circumstances, I find it most unlikely they would have bought the MPPI at all. They 
would have considered it a waste of money and would have wanted to speak to someone 
who could give more reliable and accurate advice and information about mortgage 
protection. 
So, Nationwide provided the wrong advice and the information it gave wasnt clear or fair; it 
was substantially misleading. 
In accordance with what I set out in my provisional decision, this policy was unsuitable and 
Miss B and Mr G were unable to consider any other course of action because of the poor 
information they were provided with. This makes the policy mis-sold.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Miss B and Mr G in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out MPPI. It should:
Pay Miss B and Mr G the entire amount they jointly paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Miss B or Mr G made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Nationwide can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. Nationwide can 
also subtract any partial mis-sale payment it has made in respect of Mr G.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss B and Mr G a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this case in full and direct Nationwide Building Society to compensate Miss B and 
Mr G as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman