DRN-3679640
The complaint
Mr J is complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard treated him unfairly 
when his account fell into persistent debt. 
What happened
Mr J had a credit card account with Barclaycard.
Mr J had a credit limit of £1,600 and made the majority of regular payments on time. Mr Js 
statements show the payments were the minimum payment due to the account, and Mr J 
also had late payment fees applied to the account. This pattern continued into 2019 when  
Mr J experienced some financial difficulties. At this stage Mr J missed payments and arrears 
accrued on the account. Mr J was able to bring the account up to date in April 2019.  
In June 2020, Barclaycard provided Mr J with details of how to enter into a repayment plan 
to clear the outstanding balance as it considered Mr Js account was in persistent debt. But 
Mr J did not consider this necessary and he didnt want this to affect his credit file. 
Mr J raised a formal complaint about the handling of his account. Mr J says Barclaycard has 
treated him unfairly as he is not a financial risk, and he has managed to maintain his 
repayments. Barclaycard reviewed Mr Js concerns and explained it had acted in line with 
regulatory guidance. Mr Js card was suspended in November 2021, and he asked for an 
assurance from Barclaycard that it will be re-activated. Barclaycard said it was not able to 
provide this type of assurance, as it needed to be satisfied Mr J was no longer in persistent 
debt before the card could be re-activated. 
Dissatisfied with the response from Barclaycard Mr J referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator reviewed Mr Js concerns and explained why they thought Barclaycard had 
acted reasonably. Mr J remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service and as our rules allow I will 
focus here on the points I find to be material to the outcome of Mr Js complaint. I 
understand this complaint has been a source of worry and frustration for Mr J. But based on 
the evidence I have seen I am not upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) persistent debt rules are set out on the FCA 
handbook, CONC 6.7.27. They say (in summary) that firms such as Barclaycard must look at 
the accounts of borrowers to ensure theyre reducing their debts and therefore, not paying 
too much interest. And so  where a borrower is paying more in interest and fees than they 
are paying towards reducing the amount of the debt, then a repayment plan should be put in 
place to deal with this. And, where this cant be agreed, the card may be suspended  to 
stop customers from increasing their debts further. The intention of the rules is to ensure that 
customers are protected from paying too much interest  and in some cases, never actually 
repaying their debts. This typically happens if customers only pay the minimum amount each 
month, while still spending on their cards.
In Mr Js case I can see that he had a limit of £1,600 and based on the statements I have 
seen the balance was often close to this limit. Mr J says that on the whole he has been able 
to meet the repayments on the card and has managed to avoid missing payments for long 
periods of time. I dont dispute this  other than a few occasions when Mr J experienced 
financial difficulties he was able to maintain the card repayments. But the key point is that Mr 
J often pay the minimum amount, meaning he was not making any progress in reducing the 
overall debt. Persistent debt regulations require a lender to take a holistic approach which 
takes into account the long-term impact of making minimum repayments. I appreciate Mr J 
has endeavoured to maintain his card repayments, but it was apparent to Barclaycard that 
patterns were emerging which required intervention. Given what Ive seen about the activity 
on Mr Js account Im persuaded that Barclaycard were correct to deem Mr Js account as 
being in persistent debt. 
Barclaycard has shown that it sent a great deal of correspondence to Mr J about his account 
being regarded as being in persistent debt. Barclaycard outlined the repayment amounts he 
could make to work towards reducing his borrowing. I find this approach to be in line with the 
regulatory guidance. Ultimately Barclaycard was obliged to help ensure Mr J was reducing 
his outstanding balance. 
Mr J says he was sent a letter in March 2020 from Barclaycard explaining he had come out 
of persistent debt. Mr J had been through a period of making significant repayments to 
reduce his outstanding balance. This was a positive step, and I think it was reasonable for 
Barclaycard to inform Mr J of this development. However, by June 2020 Mr Js account 
showed signs of on-going issues and he re-entered persistent debt. 
Mr J says the regulations require a period of 36 months of more being paid in interest and 
charges then the principal balance for an account to be deemed as in persistent debt. And 
that the 36-month clock should be reset to take into consideration the fact he came out of 
persistent debt. I understand Mr Js comments, but businesses such as Barclaycard are 
required to take a pragmatic approach that takes into account the possibility of an account 
struggling again. The guidelines are not entirely prescriptive, and businesses are expected 
to exercise a degree of judgement based on an individual account. In Mr Js case after 
March 2020 and into 2021 the statements show he was continuing to regularly pay more in 
interest and charges than he was against his principal balance.  So, Im persuaded that 
Barclaycard had a responsibility to consider the account as in persistent debt again. Mr J 
says he wasnt sent the relevant notifications from Barclaycard but looking at its system 
notes I can see regular communications were sent to Mr J about his account and the steps 
he needed to take. So, I find Barclaycard did enough to let Mr J know it was treating his 
account as in persistent debt here.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard followed the regulatory guidelines for cases of persistent 
debt, as it is obliged to, and as this did not result in an agreed payment plan it suspended  
Mr Js account. I do not find Barclaycard did anything wrong that it needs to put right. 
Its also worth saying that Barclaycard have told Mr J in its final response letter that, if he 
contacts its persistent debt team, it will consider removing the suspension of his credit card 
account, if an agreeable way forward can be achieved. Mr Js spending on the card indicates 
he relies on this line of credit, so I think it would make sense for that discussion to take 
place. I understand Mr Js reluctance as he does not want the repayment plan on his credit 
file, but Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable way forward here for both parties. So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclaycard has treated Mr J 
unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for 
Mr J as he clearly feels strongly about the matter. But I hope hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman