DRN-4473276
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service hes received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) as his 
damaged vehicle was sold without his agreement following a claim under his commercial 
vehicle insurance policy.
Where Ive referred to Aviva throughout, this also includes any actions by agents acting on 
their behalf.
What happened
Mr W had a commercial vehicle insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. Unfortunately, Mr W 
was involved in an accident when his vehicle was hit by another. His vehicle was taken to 
Avivas salvage agents and deemed a total loss.
Mr W was offered a total loss settlement for his vehicle, but he was unhappy with the amount 
that was offered. This was referred to Aviva to consider further.
However, whilst the total loss settlement was being negotiated, Mr Ws damaged vehicle 
was sold at auction. This was despite Mr W potentially looking to keep the damaged vehicle 
(with a salvage deduction from the total loss settlement) and questioning the extent of 
damage to it.
Mr W discovered his vehicle had been sold earlier than agreeing to the total loss settlement 
as he received a toll road fine whilst his vehicle was still supposed to be with the salvage 
agent. Mr W complained to Aviva.
Aviva upheld Mr Ws complaint. They agreed that his damaged vehicle shouldnt have been 
sold when it was. They offered Mr W £500 compensation.
As Mr W remained unhappy, he approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said it 
wasnt possible for Aviva to now make Mr Ws vehicle available to him as its been sold, but 
she thought the compensation Aviva had offered for this was fair. She also said the vehicle 
had been recorded externally as written-off, so she thought this demonstrated it was sold in 
a damaged condition.
Mr W didnt agree, and the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr W, Ive reached the same outcome 
as our investigator.
Mr W became aware his damaged vehicle had been sold before reaching settlement with 
Aviva when he received a toll road charge for the vehicle (Mr W hasnt needed to pay this). 
This charge was dated from when the vehicle was still supposed to be with the salvage 
agent and Mr W was negotiating with Aviva.
It isnt disputed by Aviva that Mr Ws vehicle shouldnt have been sold whilst he was 
negotiating the total loss settlement with them. And this was after he had made Aviva and 
their agents aware that he might be looking to retain the vehicle, whilst also raising questions 
about whether the damage was actually structural damage. 
Unfortunately, the damaged vehicle was ultimately sold though. So, Aviva isnt now able to 
return Mr Ws vehicle to him if he did want to retain it. Aviva has accepted this shouldnt have 
happened and offered £500 compensation (separate to the total loss payment under the 
policy). 
Whilst I do recognise Mr W doesnt think this is sufficient, I think this fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances for what happened, so I wont be directing Aviva to increase this.
Mr W has also raised concerns that the vehicle didnt appear to have structural damage from 
the images and engineers report and thinks this was said to obtain a good condition vehicle 
to auction. However, Aviva has provided a copy of the HPI check. This shows the vehicle 
has been recorded externally as an insurance write-off and Category S, which is structurally 
damaged. So, I dont think this supports the vehicle was sold in an undamaged condition. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva should pay the £500 compensation already offered, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman