DRN-3719611
The complaint
Miss M complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) didnt treat her fairly when she 
was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to acquire a used car in 
September 2019. 
Miss M made her first monthly payment for the agreement in November 2019, but the 
payment due in December 2019 was returned to Moneybarn unpaid. 
Moneybarn tried to call Miss M about her missed payment on 5, 6 and 19 December 2019. 
They sent her an email on 12 December 2019 asking her to call them about the payment 
and sent a letter on 19 December 2019. They also tried to send Miss M a text message 
asking them to call her on 30 and 31 December 2019. 
On 3 January 2020 Miss Ms monthly payment was returned unpaid, and Moneybarn sent a 
letter to Miss M with a notice of sums in arrears. Moneybarn sent Miss M an email about the 
arrears on her account on 16 January 2020, another letter on 20 January 2020, and tried to 
send her a text message about the arrears on 30 January 2020 and 3 February 2020. They 
also sent her an email reminder about her next payment on 30 January 2020. 
Miss Ms payment due on 4 February was returned unpaid. On 10 February 2020 
Moneybarn tried to send Miss M a text message about her arrears. They also sent her a 
letter and an email asking her to call them. They said if they didnt hear from Miss M within 
seven days, they would issue a default notice as the arrears were building to an 
unsustainable level. They said if a default notice was issued, Miss M would need to pay the 
full arrears or the agreement would be ended, and the vehicle recovered. 
Moneybarn didnt hear from Miss M, and they issued a default notice on 19 February 2020. 
That notice required Miss M to clear the arrears on her account before 10 March 2020. 
Moneybarn tried to send Miss M a text message on 24 and 25 February 2020 asking her to 
contact them. They tried to call her on 10 March 2020 and sent her an email on 11 March 
2020 asking her to get in touch before the agreement was terminated. 
Moneybarn tried to call Miss M on 12 March 2020. They didnt hear from her, and a 
termination notice was issued on 13 March 2020 along with a notice of sums in arrears.  
On 16 March 2020 Moneybarn sent an email to Miss M confirming the termination notice and 
said the vehicle was at risk of repossession if they didnt hear from her. 
On 20 March 2020 Miss M contacted Moneybarn. She let them know shed had some 
significant recent health problems and had been handling a difficult work situation. She said 
shed changed her email address, and so hadnt been receiving communications from 
Moneybarn. 
At the end of March 2020 Moneybarn told Miss M they wouldnt be able to collect her vehicle 
due to restrictions as a result of the coronavirus pandemic (covid-19). They gave her until 14 
April 2020 to consider her post termination options. 
On 7 May 2020 Moneybarn gave Miss M until 14 May 2020 to confirm what post termination 
option shed like to take. 
At the end of August 2020 Moneybarn sent Miss M a notice of sums in arrears, and at the 
end of September 2020 they sent Miss M an email explaining that she needed to contact 
them within seven days, or they would proceed with recovery of the vehicle. 
On 8 October 2020 Moneybarn instructed agents to recover Miss Ms vehicle. 
In mid-October 2020 Miss M called Moneybarn. She said shed been trying to contact them 
for some time and told them shed changed her address. Moneybarn told Miss M that if she 
paid 25% of the arrears balance, they could consider a consent order. Miss M made this 
payment and completed an income and expenditure review on the phone. Moneybarn told 
Miss M theyd like the balance of the agreement to be paid within the remaining timeframe of 
the agreement. 
In February 2021 Moneybarn received an offer of payment from Miss M, which they rejected. 
They said itd take 10 years to pay the agreement at the amount offered, and so it wasnt 
sustainable. 
In March 2021 Moneybarn instructed agents to collect the vehicle. 
The vehicle was repossessed in August 2021. 
Moneybarn received an IVA proposal from Miss M in August 2021, and this was rejected in 
September 2021. 
Miss M complained to Moneybarn in September 2021. She said theyd treated her with little 
care, despite her trying to contact them on multiple occasions, and the repossession of the 
vehicle wasnt necessary. 
Moneybarn sent Miss M their final response to her complaint in October 2021. They said 
theyd tried to contact her a number of times before the agreement was terminated and 
provided options to try and help her to keep the vehicle, but no suitable arrangement was 
agreed and so their decision to repossess the car was fair. They didnt uphold Miss Ms 
complaint.  
Unhappy with this, Miss M brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said 
Moneybarn had failed to engage with her around the termination of the agreement and 
hadnt treated her fairly. 
Our investigator gave her view that Moneybarn had made attempts to contact Miss M and 
they didnt act unfairly in terminating the agreement. She said once the agreement was 
terminated Moneybarn were able to repossess the vehicle, and so she didnt ask them to do 
anything more. 
Miss M didnt agree. She said she tried to contact Moneybarn a number of times but found it 
difficult to contact them, and she received poor correspondence and support from them. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M was supplied with a car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The agreement requires Miss M to make a payment in full and on time each month. In not 
making her payment in December 2019, Miss M breached the terms of the agreement, and 
her account fell into arrears. Miss M went on to miss her January 2020 and February 2020 
payments, putting her account further into arrears. 
Where its customers are facing financial difficulty, Moneybarn have a responsibility to treat 
them with due consideration and forbearance. I can see that Moneybarn wrote to Miss M on 
at least four occasions about her missed payments and tried to call, text and email her a 
number of times, asking her to contact them to discuss the arrears on her account between 
5 December 2019 and 12 March 2020. I cant see that Miss M contacted Moneybarn during 
this time. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Moneybarn to have issued a default notice. Theyd 
been unable to contact Miss M to come to an arrangement to repay the arrears for payments 
missed in December 2019, January 2020 and February 2020.  
In its Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says in relation to 
payment arrangements, a default would not normally be registered unless the terms of a 
payment arrangement are broken. I consider this to be representative of good industry 
practice. And as a minimum would expect a lender to act in accordance with these principles 
when deciding whether to default a consumers agreement. 
In this case, I think it was appropriate for Moneybarn to report a default to Miss Ms 
agreement as she broke the terms of her payment arrangement. And so, Moneybarn was 
entitled to register that the agreement had defaulted as per the ICO guidance.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) sets out in section 87(1) that a default notice is 
necessary before the creditor is entitled to terminate the agreement or recover the goods.  
Section 88 of the CCA sets out that the default notice must:Specify the nature of the alleged breach 
If the breach is capable of remedy what action is required to remedy it and the date 
before which that action is to be taken
If the breach is not capable of remedy, the sum (if any) required to be paid as 
compensation for the breach, and the date before which it is to be repaid. 
Im satisfied that the default notice that Moneybarn issued was in line with the CCA 
requirements. 
Moneybarn didnt hear from Miss M after the default notice expired, and so the agreement 
was terminated in March 2020. Im satisfied that the termination was completed in line with 
the terms of the agreement. 
Miss M has said that she didnt receive any communication from Moneybarn, and shed 
moved address and changed her email address. 
I cant see that Miss M contacted Moneybarn to update her details prior to the termination 
notice being issued in March 2020. So, Im satisfied that Moneybarn used the correct details, 
those provided by Miss M, to try and contact her before the agreement was terminated and 
so Im satisfied that the default and termination notices were correctly sent. 
Miss M is unhappy with the support provided to her after the agreement was terminated.
As Ive set out above, Moneybarn have a responsibility to treat consumers in financial 
difficulty with due consideration and forbearance. Im satisfied that Moneybarn did this by 
contacting Miss M by post and text message on a number of occasions to try and assist her 
with repaying her arrears before the agreement was terminated. 
When Miss M contacted Moneybarn after the agreement was terminated, they provided a 
number of post termination options to allow her to keep the vehicle, including completing 
income and expenditure assessments and the option of a consent order. 
Part of treating consumers with forbearance is ensuring that arrears dont build to 
unsustainable levels, and that debt can be repaid sustainably. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Moneybarn to refuse to accept Miss Ms offer of repayment that wouldve 
taken twice as long to repay as the original agreement term, and Moneybarn are under no 
obligation to accept Miss Ms IVA proposal. So, all things considered, Im satisfied that 
Moneybarn did treat Miss M fairly and with forbearance when she told them about her 
financial difficulties.  
As the agreement between Moneybarn and Miss M had been broken, and no arrangement 
had been made to repay the arrears, Im satisfied that Moneybarns decision to instruct the 
repossession of Miss Ms vehicle was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman