DRN-3795133
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A took out her car insurance with Advantage and wasnt happy about the way it handled 
a claim under her policy. As her car required repair she was expecting to get a courtesy car 
while her car was in for repair. Advantage arranged for its hire car company to provide a car 
for Mrs A, but the relationship broke down between Mrs A and the hire company to the 
extent it refused to provide her with a hire car. 
As Mrs A wasnt happy about this she complained to Advantage. It acknowledged this 
caused Mrs A stress and inconvenience but as it couldnt compel its hire company to provide 
a car when it refused to, and the repairer wasnt able to provide a courtesy car it suggested 
Mrs A could look to arrange a hire car herself or to place one of the other cars she had 
access to on cover. It also paid her £300 by way of compensation in acknowledgement of 
the poor service, stress and inconvenience all this caused her and the fact that it couldnt 
provide a hire car. But as Mrs A remained unhappy about this she complained to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. Although he 
sympathised with the position Mrs A found herself in he thought Advantage had acted fairly 
in looking to put things right and trying to keep Mrs A mobile while her car was being 
repaired. But it wasnt responsible for the breakdown in relationship between Mrs A and the 
hire car company.
As Mrs A didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a fair degree of sympathy for Mrs A as she simply wanted a replacement car while her 
own car was being repaired. But I think Advantage have acted fairly here in looking to put 
things right and trying to keep her mobile. Ill explain why. 
As the repairing garage couldnt provide a courtesy car (there was a general pressure on 
courtesy cars and hire cars around this time due to a number of external factors) I think 
Advantage acted fairly in looking to keep Mrs A mobile and getting her a hire car. But it is 
clear there was a falling out between Mrs A and the hire car company to the extent that it 
refused to provide Mrs A with a hire car. The hire car company felt Mrs As behaviour wasnt 
appropriate and placed her on its do not rent list.
I cant hold Advantage responsible for this and so Ive looked to concentrate on whether I 
feel it acted as fairly as possible in the circumstances given the breakdown in relationship 
here. And I think it did. I say this as it offered Mrs A other possibilities in order to stay mobile 
including offering to pay for insurance cover for other vehicles she had access to or to pay 
for a hire car if Mrs A looked to arrange this. Both these options seem reasonable, especially 
as Advantage only had a hire car deal with one particular hire car company who Mrs A had 
fallen out with. 
I know Mrs A wanted Advantage to arrange things for her, but I think in the circumstances I 
would have expected Mrs A to take some steps herself to mitigate her position. And she was 
clear that she had access to other vehicles so I would expect her to try and keep mobile 
herself and arrange cover if she needed to use another car. I know Mrs A has said in her 
recent correspondence with our investigator that the hire car options she found were very 
expensive, but she couldve looked to agree this with Advantage so she wouldnt have been 
out of pocket. Plus, although I can understand why Mrs A didnt want the responsibility of 
driving anyone elses car it would appear that she had access to other vehicles which she 
couldve used.
I also understand the hire car company did offer Mrs A a small hire car during the early 
stages of her claim before the falling out, but she declined this. However, this would have 
kept her mobile and was in line with the kind of courtesy car a repairing garage would 
provide in any event. Advantage also said it was happy to move her car to a repairing 
garage of her choice if they could provide a courtesy car for her which seems reasonable. 
And Mrs A said during the early stages of the claim, just after the breakdown in her 
relationship with the hire car company that she would have access to 3 other vehicles, 
however, I am not prepared to pay for additional insurance cover. So, I wouldve expected 
her to discuss this possibility with Advantage who had indicated it was happy to help pay for 
this in order to help given the circumstances.
Given all of this, and the fact that Mrs A fell out with Advantages hire car company, I think its 
offer of £300 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused in dealing with this and 
being unable to provide a courtesy car or hire car feels fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
have acted fairly in responding to Mrs As complaint and paying her £300 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman