DRN-3644069
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the upfront cost and delivery fee Vodafone Limited charged him when 
he took out a fixed sum loan agreement with them.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr M took out a fixed sum loan agreement for a mobile phone device with 
Vodafone. The total amount of credit was for £396 and the term of the agreement was 36 
months. On 3 May 2022 Mr M contacted Vodafone to let them know he was unhappy about 
being charged an upfront cost of £19 for the device and also a delivery fee of £6.99 as he 
says he didnt agree to these costs.
Vodafone said that all the paperwork and the agreement was signed by Mr M. And that he 
agreed to being charged these costs. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns. In summary, he didnt think Vodafone had 
done anything wrong as the upfront cost of £19 was set out in the fixed sum loan agreement 
that Mr M signed. And that Vodafone confirmed the delivery fee in a text message that was 
sent to Mr M when he took out the loan.
Mr M disagreed and said he wasnt happy with our Investigators outcome. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had a look at the fixed sum loan agreement that appears to have been electronically 
signed by Mr M on 6 April 2022. I can see there is a section which sets out the amount of 
credit being taken out. It explains the total cash price of the equipment (the mobile phone 
device) was £415. Then, it says you have made an upfront payment for the equipment of 
£19. As a result, the total amount of credit was £396.
Additionally, Vodafone have provided us with a copy of a text message that was sent to Mr 
M following the sales call where he applied for the fixed sum loan  this text message thanks 
Mr M for his call and confirms all the details of the agreement. This text message also 
confirmed the upfront cost of £19. 
Lastly, Ive listened to the sales call recording that Vodafone have supplied us with. Towards 
the end of the call the advisor explains there is an upfront cost of £19 and asks Mr M if hed 
like the cost to be added to his next bill. Mr M responds and agrees to this. The advisor then 
mentions the upfront cost of £19 again towards the end of the call recording, before the 
recording cuts off at this point.
So, all in all, I think Vodafone did make Mr M aware of the upfront cost and he agreed to pay 
it.
Now turning to the delivery fee. When listening to the call recording provided by Vodafone, 
delivery of the device was spoken about as Mr M requested for the delivery to be made on a 
day he was at home. But I didnt hear the advisor mention the fee of £6.99. However, Im 
conscious that this call recording isnt the full recording and it seems to end before the 
conversation between the Vodafone advisor and Mr M finishes. So, it may have been 
possible that the delivery fee was spoken about after the point the call recording cuts off. 
Even though theres no evidence of the £6.99 delivery fee being mentioned during this call, I 
dont find it unreasonable that there was a delivery fee for the goods. 
In any case, the text message that was sent to Mr M following the call also explained 
information about the delivery of the mobile phone device, such as the delivery time frame 
and also that the cost was £6.99. So even if I accept that Mr M wasnt made aware of the 
delivery cost by Vodafone at the point he applied for the loan, I think it was made clear in the 
text message that was sent to him on the same day the loan agreement was taken out. So, I 
think its reasonable to believe that if Mr M wasnt aware of this cost, he would have 
contacted Vodafone at that point to dispute it, but Ive seen no evidence he did. With that 
said, I dont think Vodafone have acted unfairly in relation to this cost.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman