DRN-3742623
The complaint
Mr B complains that following notification of an incident his renewal offer for his van 
insurance was no longer available, and instead Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited 
trading as Go Skippy Insurance (Go Skippy) found him an alternative policy which was 
excessively inflated. He feels that Go Skippy took advantage of his situation because it knew 
that Mr B wouldnt be able to find cover elsewhere.  
What happened
Mr Bs van insurance policy was due for renewal in December 2021. Mr B received a 
renewal invite from his insurance broker, Go Skippy, on 19 November 2021 with a quote for 
the sum of £1,024.69. 
On 26 November 2021, Mr B was involved in an incident with a pedestrian. He said he 
notified Go Skippy but didnt make a claim as there was no damage to his vehicle. He also 
changed his address as he had moved home too.
When he proceeded with the renewal of his policy on 29 November 2021, he discovered that 
his renewal premium had increased to £3,479.82. Go Skippy told Mr B that it had updated 
the information about the incident and change of address on the renewal quote and as a 
result, the insurer that quoted £1,024.69 was no longer offering cover. Go Skippy therefore 
searched the market and found an alternative policy for Mr B however it was at a much 
higher cost.  
Mr B said he also attempted to find alternative cover elsewhere, but he said he couldnt get a 
quote as he wasnt sure if the pedestrian would make a claim and therefore couldnt answer 
all the questions at inception. He felt he had no choice but to accept Go Skippys increased 
quote of £3,479.82.
Mr B was unhappy that the price of his policy increased so heavily. Go Skippy explained that 
it was the insurance broker and therefore it did not set the premiums, this was determined by 
the insurer. Therefore, it felt that it was not responsible for the cost of the policy. It explained 
that following the initial insurer withdrawing its renewal offer it found Mr B the cheapest 
policy which was available for him  this was with a different insurer. 
Mr B feels Go Skippy took advantage of his situation because it knew he wouldnt be able to 
get a policy elsewhere due to the open claim and so it found him a policy with an excessively 
inflated cost for its own financial gain. Mr B feels he has been treated unfairly by Go Skippy 
and would like his premium recalculated to reflect his actual risk factor, as he didnt think it 
had been calculated correctly. He thought a figure in the region of £1,000 would be more 
reasonable.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint she be upheld. In summary, she said 
that the insurer which offered the initial renewal quote was free to stop offering that policy as 
the cover hadnt started yet. The insurer determines whether they want to offer terms and 
the premium is based on the insurers underwriting criteria. The broker cannot compel an 
insurer to offer terms or have a say in how much premium it should charge. She hadnt seen 
any evidence to support Mr Bs assertion that Go Skippy inflated the price of the policy for its 
own financial gain  higher commission. She also said Mr B could have contacted insurers 
by phone to obtain an alternative quote. In any event, she didnt think Go Skippy had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, he said the following: 
He didnt feel it was fair for his premium to increase at the level it did because of an 
incident notification. 
He feels that Go Skippy would have been aware of the difficulty he would have to find 
alternative cover due to an open incident on record and therefore took advantage of his 
situation. 
He did attempt to find alternative cover, including over the phone, but he couldnt.
He feels that Go Skippy could have found a better premium but chose not to and he 
therefore feels hes been treated unfairly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can understand Mr Bs frustration with the increase in the premium for his van insurance 
but Im unable to uphold his complaint and Ill explain why. 
Go Skippy is an insurance broker and intermediary. That means it sells policies and helps 
with administering them, but it doesn't actually provide the cover itself. That is provided by 
the policy underwriter (the insurer). In this case the policy insurer changed at the most recent 
renewal due to the previous insurer no longer offering cover. Go Skippy has continued to 
administer the policy. 
As Go Skippy isnt the insurer it isnt responsible for calculating the premium, thats the 
responsibility of the insurer. Go Skippy have a list of insurers they use when searching the 
market for cover. This means it gathers the information from the customer and submits it to 
insurers for a quote. As the investigator has explained, the insurer determines whether it 
wants to offer terms and on what basis. The premium will therefore be based on the insurers 
underwriting criteria. None of this can be influenced by Go Skippy.  
The initial quote for cover was provided by the insurer via Go Skippy. Go Skippy acted 
reasonably by updating the renewal quote with the new information about the incident and 
also a change of address  this is what I would expect to happen as the policy hadnt 
started. Based on this information, the initial insurer was no longer offering cover. As the 
investigator has explained, this policy hadnt started yet and therefore the insurer stopped 
offering cover. Go Skippy therefore searched the market for the cheapest quote. 
Mr B said that notification of the incident shouldnt have increased his premium by such an 
extortionate amount and therefore he would like a more reasonable quote. Again, I agree 
with the investigator that its the insurer not the broker who determines what information is 
relevant to the underwriting criteria and risk appetite. Its not for Go Skippy to decide whether 
the notification of the incident is taken into account when pricing a policy. 
Mr B feels that Go Skippy used his situation to provide a policy at an inflated price so it could 
benefit financially from selling a more expensive policy, through commission and fees. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Go Skippy provided Mr B with an inflated policy for its own 
benefit.
Mr B didnt have to go ahead with the policy Go Skippy found and he had the option to shop 
around, but I understand from what he has said he couldnt find alternative cover. So, it 
seems to me that if Mr B didnt accept the quote Go Skippy found for him, he would have 
been left without cover for his van. Ive not been provided with any evidence that cheaper 
alternative cover was available. 
While I understand that the increase in premium was unexpected by Mr B and must have 
come as a shock, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr Bs renewal quote was inflated 
by Go Skippy, and in any event, its not Go Skippy that sets the cost of the insurance. So, I 
dont think it has made any errors here.   
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman