DRN-2873860
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that J & E Davy (UK) Limited (Davy) provided false assurances to 
them about their portfolio in the early part of the Pandemic.
Mr and Mrs H say that the encashment of their bond should have happened earlier, and this 
delay was down to poor advice and support.
Mr and Mrs H say that they suffered a financial loss because of the false assurances, and 
this also caused a significant emotional drain on them. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had an advisory account which was acquired by Davy in April 2016. 
On 24 February 2020, Mr H wrote to Davy as he was anxious about the likely impact of 
Coronavirus on his investment. Mr and Mrs Hs advisor at Davy replied on 26 April 2020 
saying that the effect was likely to be short term.
Mr H wrote again on 27 February 2020 saying that his concern was real and that they were 
thinking of cashing in their investment. The advisor at Davy called Mr H the next day and 
attempted to offer assurances on the portfolio. The advisor made Mr and Mrs H aware that 
he was going on annual leave for 2 weeks. Mr H left the portfolio in place following this call.
On 12 March 2020, Mr H wrote to Davy to say that they had had enough, and they wanted to 
encash the portfolio as soon as possible. As Mr and Mrs Hs normal advisor was still on 
annual leave, another nominated advisor telephoned Mr H on 13 March 2020.
In this call, the advisor tried to reassure Mr H to see out the market falls and remain 
invested. Mr H left the portfolio in place following this call.
On 20 March 2020, Mr and Mrs H encashed the portfolio and the sum of £174,112.89 was 
raised. Part of the portfolio could not be sold at this point and remained invested (a property 
fund with a value of around £6,000 which was suspended from trading).
On 13 August 2020, Mr and Mrs H complained to Davy about the fall in value of their 
portfolio and the advice that they had received. Davy investigated the complaint and 
responded on 25 September 2020. Davy didnt uphold the complaint.
Further correspondence took place between Mr H and Davy, Davy responded with a further 
letter on 23 October 2020 upholding their initial response.
A Zoom meeting was held between Mr H and Davy and a further response was issued to Mr 
and Mrs H on 5 November 2020. Davy continued their previous stance and didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Unhappy with Davys final response, Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to the service 
and one of our investigators reviewed the complaint.
The investigator thought that Davy had acted reasonably and didnt think that the complaint 
should succeed. The investigator thought that the suggestion to leave the bond and not 
encash it was not unreasonable and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs H provided the investigator with further submissions, but the investigator didnt 
think that Mr and Mrs H had brought new information.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs H have asked for an ombudsman to look 
at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but Im not going to uphold the complaint. I know that 
Mr and Mrs H feel very strongly about their complaint and I will explain why I have reached 
this decision.
Before I go into the complaint, I would like to thank Mr and Mrs H for the for the time that 
they have taken sending detailed submissions. I have read everything that they have sent, 
and I know that this has been a difficult time for them.
From what I have read, Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is split into a few areas:
Poor advice and support 
Encashment of the bond should have been sooner
How Davy have handled the complaint
Ill look at each of these in turn.
Poor advice and support 
The main element of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is that they say they received poor advice 
and support from Davy. Mr and Mrs H were nervous about how Coronavirus would affect 
their investments and say that Davy gave bad advice to remain invested.
I have looked at the documentation and can see that Mr and Mrs H contacted Davy on three 
separate occasions prior to encashing their investments. On each of these occasions. Mr H 
was concerned about market movements and how this would affect the portfolio.
Mr and Mrs H had an advisory relationship with Davy and its important to go over the nature 
of this service. An advisory service is where the business will provide consumers with advice 
on investments and the final decision lies with the consumer. This is different from a 
discretionary service where the business makes all the decisions on behalf of the consumer.
Mr and Mrs H contacted Davy for advice on what to do with their investments. Mr Hs first 
email to Davy was around the time when the UK was starting to become aware of 
Coronavirus and how other Countries were affected.
Mr Hs instruction to Davy to encash the portfolio was the day after the WHO declared the 
Pandemic.
On each occasion that Mr H sought advice from Davy, their recommended action and house 
view was to remain invested. I can see from the documentation that Davy assumed that after a period of uncertainty, market movements would rebound and the falls that had been seen 
would be short lived. Davy also commented on the fact that the only way to guarantee a loss 
would be to sell now.
From what I have seen, Davy gave assurances to Mr and Mrs H to that markets would 
recover, and it would be better to hold rather than sell their investment. Following each 
contact with Davy, Mr and Mrs H remained invested.
Mr and Mrs H say in their submission that Davy provided false assurances and bad advice to 
remain invested. When reviewing the circumstances of this complaint, I need to look at what 
information was available at the time and I cant look at what is now known and 
retrospectively review the complaint.
Davy provided advice to Mr and Mrs H based on what they knew at the time and what they 
thought was going to happen. I cant look at the complaint with the benefit of hindsight and I 
cant say that Davy provided incorrect advice or false assurances at the time as this was 
their professional opinion.
In my opinion, this is the key part of the complaint and I know that this will disappoint Mr and 
Mrs H, but we cant look at the complaint with the benefit of hindsight. We now know much 
more than what was available in February and March 2020 and I cant say that Davy did 
anything wrong with providing the advice in February 2020 based on the information that 
they had.
In his submission, Mr H has said that the information contained in the transcript of the call on 
13 March shows that the Davy assurances cant be described in any other way other than 
false. I sympathise with what Mr H says but as I have already said, I cant look at the 
complaint with the benefit of hindsight. 
Encashment of the bond should have been sooner
In their submission to the service, Mr and Mrs H say that the encashment of the bond should 
have happened sooner and that because of the false assurances that Davy provided, the 
delays caused a financial loss.
I have looked at the emails and telephone conversation that Mr and Mrs H had with Davy. 
The second email that Mr H sent Davy on 27 February 2020 at 22.15 said:
We are thinking of cashing in. Have a wedding later this year and are concerned about what 
is happening currently on share markets. 
Davy responded to this email at 9.53am on 28 February with a valuation and Mr H replied 
later that morning at 11.06am to say that he was surprised that it was holding up so well 
given what had happened during the last week.  
Mr H then emailed Davy on 12 March 2020 saying:
Our instincts are to cash in asap..is a cash in something that you can advance at your 
end?
Mr and Mrs Hs normal advisor was on annual leave and another advisor picked this email 
up and called Mr H and Mrs H on 13 March 2020.I have reviewed a transcript of this call and the call was to discuss the email that Mr H had 
sent on 12 March 2020. The advisor and Mr H talk about what has happened and the 
advisor gives the view that it would be better to remain invested. 
There is no express instruction from Mr H on this call to encash the investment and it 
appears that Mr H accepted what the advisor was saying and agreed to remain invested. Mr 
H provided Davy with encashment instructions later in March 2020 and the investments were 
sold.
I think that there are two instances where Mr H says that they are thinking about cashing in, 
but I dont think that these are explicit instructions to sell. Following these two occasions, Mr 
H had conversations with Davy and whatever assurances were provided to Mr and Mrs H, 
they did not proceed to explicit encashment instructions.
I know that Mr H disputes this and says that there is clear evidence of his concerns which 
should have been taken as instructions to sell but I dont agree.
I said previously that Mr and Mrs H had an Advisory relationship with Davy. This meant that 
the final decision to sell was the responsibility of Mr and Mrs H.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs H provided a clear instruction to sell until 16 March 2020 when 
they submitted a withdrawal form. This was acknowledged by Davy the next day and 
completed on the next available day which was 20 March 2020.
From what I have seen, I cant say that Davy have acted unfairly in delaying encashment 
instructions from Mr and Mrs H.
How Davy have handled the complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy at how Davy have handled their complaint and the manner of the 
investigation. In his submission, Mr H has said that there was insufficient evidence for Davy 
to issue their first response to the complaint on 25 September 2020.
Mr and Mrs H also say that Davys second response on 23 October focussed on whether the 
investment was suitable rather than the events of February/March 2020.
Mr H remained unhappy with Davys response and Davys Head of Compliance reviewed the 
complaint and provided a final response concluding that Davy was not upholding the 
complaint.
A Zoom meeting between Mr H and Davy was held following receipt of this final response 
and both parties agreed to the agenda. The meeting covered the agenda points and minutes 
of the meeting were distributed.
Following this Zoom Meeting, Davy once again reiterated their position and gave reasons for 
this.
Mr H has said that he is unhappy with how Davy have handled his complaint. I can see that 
Mr H and the investigator have exchanged emails on this subject. I have reviewed these 
emails and the responses that Davy provided to Mr H.
Having done so, I cant say that Davy have acted unfairly in how they have treated Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint. I can see that Davy have issued three responses in relation to the 
complaint and different people have reviewed the complaint.In my opinion, this doesnt mean that the responses that went before were not suitable or 
that the facts werent considered. Its often the case that the handling of the case may 
involve other people or departments and its not for the service to say how Davy should 
answer complaint.
The regulators rules on how complaints should be treated are contained within the Dispute 
Resolution Handbook (DISP) and it says that complaints should be handled effectively and 
in an independent manner. From what I have seen, Im not persuaded by Mr Hs argument 
that the complaint hasnt been handled correctly.
Mr H has said that the investigator hasnt had access to all available evidence including Mr 
Hs own recording of the Zoom call. I have read all the available evidence and I think that I 
have enough information to make a decision. I dont believe that Mr Hs recording of the 
Zoom call will present any new information that I dont already have.
In summary
Mr and Mrs H had an advisory relationship with Davy and approached their advisor for 
advice on what to do with their investment in the early part of Coronavirus.  Advice was 
provided by Davy with what they believed to be the case at the time.
Mr and Mrs H took the decision to remain invested before giving a withdrawal instruction on 
16 March 2020. I dont believe that Mr and Mrs H gave Davy an explicit instruction before 
this date and Im not persuaded that Davy should have acted on any perceived instruction 
that Mr H feels he gave them during February 2020.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs H and for the stress that this complaint has caused them, but I 
think that Davy have handled the complaint in accordance with the DISP rules and Im not 
going to ask them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman