DRN-3236582
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C are unhappy Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited (AIE) declined a claim 
under their home insurance policy for a problem with their drains.
Ms C has represented Mr C and Mrs C throughout.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Ms C got in touch with the local water company, S, to report a problem with the drain. 
It removed the blockage but said the system was likely to block again. And the 
problem was on a section of private drainage, so S wasnt responsible for it.
Ms C reported the problem to AIE. It arranged for the drain to be surveyed by D, a 
drainage company. Based on Ds findings, AIE declined the claim.
Ms C complained about the outcome of the claim and the way it had been handled. 
She didnt think AIE had progressed things quickly or proactively enough, particularly 
as the occupants of the home were vulnerable.
Our investigator thought AIE had declined the claim fairly. They thought some 
aspects of the way it had been handled could have been better but overall that AIE 
hadnt acted unreasonably.
Ms C disagreed and the complaint has been referred to me. She arranged for work to 
be carried out to put the problem right shortly after the claim had been declined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim outcome
The policy covers damage caused by a sudden or unforeseen event which is not specifically 
excluded. It goes on to list a number of exclusion terms. The one AIE has relied on to 
decline the claim says we do not cover any damage caused by  wear and tear or gradual 
deterioration.
Ms C has questioned whether this is the correctly worded policy term. Ive checked and its 
in the buildings section of the policy, and has been accurately quoted, so its correct. 
However, I can see the policy has a separate section for general exclusions which contains 
a similar but differently worded term and comes before the buildings section. That may have 
given the impression AIE quoted the wrong term. But Im satisfied it relied on a relevant 
policy term and quoted it correctly.
As AIE has relied on an exclusion term to decline the claim, it must show the term likely 
applies. Ive considered the available evidence to decide if its done that.
D surveyed the drain and noted the pipe in the area with the problem was made of pitch 
fibre. It said the pipe was 30% deformed around eight metres and 80% deformed about a 
metre further down the line. It thought the damage had occurred over time as a result of 
wear and tear.
After it cleared the blockage, S surveyed the drain. It said the pipe was made of pitch fibre 
material and was badly deformed at eight metres. It didnt offer any further opinion about 
the problem, such as what may have caused it or over what timescale.
D and S are professional drainage companies. They both independently found there was 
significant deformation in the same area of the pipe and agreed it was made of pitch fibre. 
So I dont think any of that is in doubt. D thought it had happened over time whilst S didnt 
pass comment. This means the only expert opinion available is in favour of this being a 
gradual problem, rather than something which happened suddenly.
I wouldnt usually consider wear and tear a cause of deformation in pitch fibre pipes 
because, in my experience, they tend to suffer this kind of damage regardless of the extent 
theyre used. However, the term AIE relied on was broader than wear and tear because it 
also excluded gradual deterioration. D thought the damage happened over time and in my 
experience this kind of deformation is usually a gradual process brought about by the 
inherent flaws of the material degrading over time.
I havent seen any expert opinion to suggest anything different happened in this case or that 
something sudden intervened to cause a problem. Ms C is entitled to seek further expert 
opinion and share it with AIE. If she does, I would expect AIE to consider whether that 
changes the weight of expert opinion. But based on the information currently available, Im 
satisfied AIE declined the claim fairly in line with the policy terms.
Claim handling
Ms Cs complaint is also about the way the claim was handled. She doesnt think AIE 
progressed things as quickly or proactively as it should have done, bearing in mind Mr C and 
Mrs C were vulnerable.
Ive looked at Ms Cs comments and timeline and AIEs claim notes. Overall it took around 
three months to provide an answer to the claim.
Initially AIE asked whether S had provided Ms C with a CCTV survey or report. I think that 
was a reasonable approach to take because, if that kind of information was available, it may 
have avoided the need for AIE to arrange its own survey  and that would have saved a lot 
of time. So, it was worth exploring this possibility.
However, all S had provided Ms C was that summarised above, which didnt provide enough 
information for AIE to make a claim decision. Because of that, the only way to find out the 
cause of the problem was to arrange for D to carry out a survey and provide a report.
It took around six weeks for the survey to be carried out and a report written. And a further 
two weeks before Ms C was told the claim outcome.
This time spanned late December, so I can understand why it may have taken a little longer 
than usual. But given the circumstances, I think this should have been prioritised. If it had, I think its likely an answer could have been given a few weeks sooner. Whilst this would have 
been preferable, Im not persuaded it would have made a material difference.
Ms C has said she had to chase AIE for updates a number of times. Its notes support that. 
They give the impression that without her prompting, things would likely have taken longer. 
So I can understand why Ms C felt AIE wasnt as proactive as it could have been. 
AIE were aware that Mr and Mrs C were vulnerable and its notes show this was taken into 
account at times. But I think it could have done more to progress things without the need for 
Ms C to prompt and chase. Had it done so, the burden on Ms C would have been reduced.
I can only award compensation for any avoidable detriment to the policyholder, which in this 
case is Mr C and Mrs C. Whilst I agree there were things AIE should have done better, Im 
not persuaded it acted in a way that caused material detriment to Mr C and Mrs C. Because 
of that, I wont be telling AIE to pay compensation for the way it handled the claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman