DRN-3872410
The complaint
Mr K complains about the advice given by Burfield Financial Planning Limited (BFPL) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Mr K is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr K.
What happened
Mr K was referred to BFPL by another business, which Ill call Firm A, to discuss his 
pension. BFPL says this introduction took place because Mr K was interested in accessing 
money from his DB pension, which Firm A didnt have the relevant permissions to advise on.
BFPL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ks circumstances and objectives. 
It noted Mr K was 56 at the time of the advice, married and in good health. He was 
unemployed at the time but planning to return to work and continue working until state 
retirement age. Mrs K was working, earning £12,000 per year. Two of their children lived at 
home, were noted as not being financially dependent and it was understood they paid 
money towards household expenses. The family lived in rented accommodation, with rent 
approximately £450 per month. Mr K had no savings or investments and no debts. Mrs K 
was recorded as having savings of approximately £30,000. Mr Ks DB scheme was recorded 
as being his only private retirement provision.
Mr K wanted to take money from his pension, in as tax efficient as way as possible, in order 
to purchase his property as he had the opportunity to do so at a significant discount (35%) 
on the market value. He thought the opportunity to own his home outright before retiring, and 
the rent saving this would provide, was in his interests. He needed £134,550 for this 
purpose.
BFPL also carried out an assessment of Mr Ks attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
cautious.
BFPL sent Mr K a letter on 12 April 2016, summarising their initial discussion. It said Mr K 
was looking to take money from his pension to purchase his property. It said taking the full 
pension as a lump sum had been discussed but BFPL didnt think encashing the full pension 
was a good idea or necessary, not least due to the tax implications of this. It did note there 
were potentially other options available to meet Mr Ks aims. 
Mr K had previously obtained a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the DB 
scheme, which said the value of his benefits was approximately £209,000, but this was now 
out of date. Even so, using the existing quote as a guide, BFPL said transferring and taking 
the maximum available tax-free cash (TFC) then taking lump sum income payments in the 
current and next tax year up to a combined total of Mr Ks tax free and basic rate tax 
allowances, should enable Mr K to release the funds he required, with any small shortfall 
potentially coverable from Mrs Ks savings. And, because Mr K was not working, the tax that 
hed incur would be minimised. BFPL noted though that itd first need a new transfer value to 
consider this further.
A new transfer value quotation was obtained from the trustees of the DB scheme. This said 
the CETV of Mr Ks benefits was now £243,398.38.
As part of the advice process BFPL completed a transfer value analysis (TVAS). This 
included the calculation of the level of growth required of a new pension each year to allow 
Mr K to be able to purchase pension benefits at retirement equivalent to those that he was 
giving up (the critical yield). To match the benefits hed be due at 65 under the DB scheme, 
assuming he took a full pension and no tax-free cash (TFC), the critical yield was calculated 
to be 5.22%.
On 15 September 2016, BFPL advised Mr K to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension, withdraw the maximum TFC and take lump sum income payments of £43,000 in 
both the current tax year and in the next tax year. This, after tax, would provide him enough 
funds to meet his objective of purchasing his property at a discount. BFPL recommended 
that the rest of the pension fund, just under £93,000, should remain invested until Mr K 
retired, which was expected to be around age 65 and it recommended a provider and 
managed fund which it felt was in line with Mr Ks attitude to risk. The suitability report 
explained transferring allowed Mr K to meet his goal, gave him the facility to then take an 
income flexibly and allowed for the remaining fund to be left as a lump sum in the event of 
his death. So, BFPL felt the transfer was in his best interests. The suitability report also 
noted that Firm A was due to provide ongoing servicing.
The transfer went ahead in line with BFPLs recommendation, TFC was taken, and the 
income withdrawals were made as suggested in late 2016 and April 2017. The withdrawal in 
April 2017 was for a slightly higher amount, £45,000, as Mr Ks tax allowance had increased, 
meaning he could take this amount without incurring tax at a higher rate. The lump sum 
withdrawals as income incurred tax at an emergency rate. But BFPL assisted Mr K in 
completing forms to reclaim the overpaid tax on each occasion.
I understand there was a delay in Firm A taking on servicing of the pension and that this in 
fact doesnt appear to have happened. Ive seen evidence ongoing adviser charges for this 
service were stopped and refunded to the pension. But even though BFPL was not the 
servicing agent and was not being paid an ongoing charge, I can see it did send Mr K two 
annual summaries of his pension.
The value of the remaining pension rose over the time it was invested. In May 2018, Mr K 
withdrew £100,000 from the pension. And in April 2019, he withdrew the remaining 
£3,740.62, reducing the balance to zero. I understand these withdrawals were made without 
taking any further advice.
Mr K complained in 2021 to BFPL about the suitability of the transfer advice. His 
representative said BFPL hadnt properly investigated, or taken into account, his personal 
circumstances and he was induced to transfer by the promise that the flexibility the new 
pension provided was in his interests. They thought transferring was not suitable for Mr K 
and not in his best interests, given his lack of investment experience and low capacity for 
loss, and said the fact the critical yield was so high meant it was unlikely to be achieved. So, 
as Mr K now believed he had suffered a loss due to its actions, the representative said Mr K 
wanted BFPL to address this.
BFPL didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said the transfer was suitable based on his stated 
objectives, which it said couldnt have been met through the DB scheme, and that Mr K was 
made aware of the relevant risks. BFPL also disputed that the critical yield was high but said in any event the transfer hadnt been recommended on the basis of matching or 
improving on the DB scheme benefits.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint as they 
didnt think the advice was suitable. BFPL did not agree, saying it didnt think the Investigator 
had considered what Mr K had gained  ownership of a property, unencumbered, which was 
likely to have increased in value and removing liability for any further rent in retirement which 
was likely to require approximately £7,000 per year in income, before tax, to cover it alone. 
BFPL also noted that, whilst it didnt agree with the Investigators findings, it said it had 
undertaken a loss calculation, in line with the methodology set by the regulator for 
addressing unsuitable DB transfer advice. And it said, having done so, the calculation 
indicated that Mr K had not incurred a loss  so there would be no redress due in any event.
The complaint was then referred to me. I issued a provisional decision in March 2023, 
explaining that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Below are extracts from my 
provisional findings, explaining why.
BFPL carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ks pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). This was based on the full transfer value being 
invested.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
Mr K was 56 at the time of the advice. He indicated he intended to return to work and retire 
around age 65  which I understand was the normal retirement age of the DB scheme. The 
critical yield required to match the occupational pension at retirement was quoted as 5.22% 
per year. BFPL has said that it thinks this was not unreasonable and was achievable. And I 
can see from the evidence on file that reference was made to the past performance of the 
recommended fund. But past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward.
The relevant discount rate was 3.5% per year for 8 full years to retirement in this case. And 
for further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr K's 
cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And here I think Mr K was likely to 
receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of 
transferring and investing his pension fund in line with that attitude to risk.
But the advice didnt involve investing the entire pension fund. The intention was always that 
this would be diminished by significant withdrawals to fund a property purchase and the 
amount invested to provide an income in retirement would be significantly lower. Given I 
dont think the returns that would be required to match or exceed the DB benefits when 
investing the whole CETV are likely to have been achieved, it follows that I think it is even 
less likely that the greater returns that would be needed for a lesser sum to grow to the point 
of being able to purchase equivalent benefits to the DB scheme could be achieved.BFPL has said it estimated that if returns of 4.95% were achieved each year on the portion 
of the transfer that was to be invested, then Mr K could potentially draw an income starting at 
approximately £8,500 and increasing by 2% per year, and the fund would not be depleted 
until beyond his life expectancy. That income level was below the starting income the DB 
scheme was expected to provide. And based on the discount rate, regulators standard 
projection rates and Mr Ks attitude to risk, Im not sure the assumed rate of return in that 
projection was achievable.
So, overall, I dont think Mr K was likely to improve on the income the DB scheme wouldve 
provided at retirement by transferring.
But the recommendation did include maintaining pension provisions. Which, if they remained 
invested wouldve provide a retirement income  and couldve been used to purchase a 
guaranteed income by way of an annuity if Mr K so chose.
Im also conscious the purpose of the transfer here was to enable Mr K to purchase the 
property he was living in and renting, unencumbered of a mortgage or any other finance. If 
he hadnt purchased the property, hed have continued paying rent. And hed have been 
responsible for this into his retirement. The rent was £450 per month or £5,400 per year. And 
there was no guarantee that this would not increase  indeed Mr K mentioned to BFPL that it 
had increased in the years before the transfer, and he was concerned it might continue to do 
so. Mr K wouldve been required to cover this rent into retirement, from his pension 
provisions. So, although he wasnt likely to improve on the income the DB scheme would 
provide, his net position, and whether hed have been better off, was less clear. And the 
transfer could in fact have been to his benefit.
And financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. 
Mr K was put in contact with BFPL because he was interested in withdrawing funds from his 
pension. He had a specific purpose in mind and that was to purchase his property outright, 
and benefit from a substantial discount on the purchase price. Based on all of the evidence 
Ive seen I think that was a very important objective for Mr K. And I think this was 
reasonable.
This wasnt a scenario where Mr K already owned the property with the assistance of finance 
which was scheduled to be repaid and cleared by the time he retired. And where clearing 
such finance early was something that was nice to have. According to the information from 
the time, Mr K didnt have any other significant assets. Mr K was renting his property. So, 
again he was subject to an ongoing cost for this and would be for the remainder of his life. 
Having to fulfil that ongoing cost placed a financial burden on him. And, even if the prospect 
of him not being able to remain in the property seemed remote, meant there was an element 
of uncertainty to his living arrangements  which wouldve continued into retirement.
The DB scheme pension was Mr Ks only private retirement provision. So, outside of his 
state pension entitlement, was the majority source of potential income in retirement. And a 
reduction in income from this source would undoubtedly have impacted Mr K. But again Mr K 
wouldve had to cover rent from this income.
Purchasing the property eliminated the rent expenditure. And owning the property without 
finance meant his living situation was certain and guaranteed for retirement  which I think 
wouldve brought significant peace of mind. And that is before even taking into account the 
benefit to him financially of being able to purchase and own an asset, the property, for 65% 
of its actual value. An asset that could appreciate in value.It is true a pensions main purpose is to provide for the holders income needs in retirement. 
But Mr Ks income needs extended to his housing situation  and having to pay for this. And 
in his specific circumstances, using his pension to address this definitively while also giving 
him outright ownership of a property and certainty in terms of his living situation, in my view, 
represented addressing specific and important retirement needs of his. And I dont think he 
couldve done this at the time without transferring.
Mr K wasnt working at the point he took advice. He intended to return to work but whether 
he would be successful in doing so, or what salary hed be able to achieve, were unknown. 
While Mrs K was working, her salary of £12,000 per year was modest. And based on their 
circumstances, I dont think obtaining a mortgage that would provide them with the money 
they required was feasible, even if the savings belonging to Mrs K were used.
Mr K was 56 at the time of the advice. So couldve accessed benefits from his DB scheme at 
that time. But these wouldve been subject to an actuarial reduction when compared to what 
he wouldve received at age 65. It was estimated that he could take TFC of approximately 
£25,000 and an annual pension of £3,214 from his DB scheme. Which wouldnt have been 
enough to fund the purchase of the property or provided enough guaranteed income to 
source financing to do so  which would anyway have resulted in him incurring interest.
I appreciate it can be argued that maybe Mr K didnt need to purchase his property. So, he 
couldve elected to keep renting it and revisit purchasing it at a later date. But this wouldve 
meant ongoing rent. And even if hed waited until age 65 to take benefits, the TFC the DB 
scheme wouldve provided was significantly less than the discounted purchase price he was 
being offered at the time. Mr K wouldve also then received a set, albeit escalating, annual 
income from the pension, with no flexibility to draw additional sums, to make up the 
difference. The value of the property could also have increased in that time, meaning, 
although I understand the discount being offered might still have applied, the amount he 
would have needed to pay for the property would still have increased.
Taking all of this into account, I think the objective that Mr K was looking to achieve was 
reasonable. The recommendation to transfer allowed this to be achieved, while also 
maintaining a reasonable portion of pension provisions. And it provided Mr K with certainty in 
terms of his housing situation for retirement. So, in the circumstances I think the advice to 
transfer was suitable.
I think BFPL was also clear in the significant amount of information provided to Mr K and the 
correspondence it had with him that the transfer meant he was going from an environment 
where he would receive a guaranteed pension to one where there was considerably greater 
risk. But this was a trade-off for achieving his stated objective. So, overall, I think it put him in 
a position to make an informed decision. And, from the evidence Ive been provided, Im 
satisfied that Mr K had a good understanding of what the transfer meant and indicated he 
wanted to proceed based on this.
I also think, given what Ive seen, that Mr K may always have sought to proceed, even if 
BFPL hadnt advised him to transfer. It is true Mr K was an inexperienced investor. So, 
advice given by BFPL, a professional adviser, wouldve carried weight. But it is also, in my 
view, clear from the correspondence and the call recordings that have been provided that 
the prospect of owning the property and benefitting from the significant discount in purchase
price was important to Mr K  so much so hed even considered encashing the pension in 
full, as this was noted in the initial correspondence from BFPL. Purchasing the property 
secured his housing situation, and an asset for a lot less than its market value. It also 
reduced his expenditure and income needs in retirement. And based on everything Ive seen 
I think Mr K placed greater importance on these things.The recommendation made by BFPL included an investment strategy for the remaining 
pension funds, once the purchase of the property had been completed. Ive considered 
Mr Ks recorded cautious attitude to risk. And, based on the information thats been provided, 
I think the recommended fund appears appropriate. It is true that since the advice, Mr K has 
utilised his pension fund in full. But I cant see that BFPL advised him to do so at any stage.
In light of the above, and notwithstanding that BFPL has said, having run a calculation it 
says in line with the regulators requirements, that no loss has been incurred here, I dont 
currently intend to require BFPL to take any further action.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
BFPL said it concurred with my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
Mr K and his representatives did not provide any further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party have provided any further comments for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons summarised 
above, in Mr Ks specific circumstances I think the advice given by BFPL to transfer his 
pension benefits was suitable for him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman