DRN-3421172
The complaint
Mr L complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) should have defaulted his credit card sooner 
than it did. He would like the date of default changed, and compensation for the trouble and 
distress.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Although MBNA felt it followed correct guidelines at the time , it agreed as a gesture 
of good will,  to change Mr Ls default date to  November 2018 , and more 
specifically at Mr Ls own request to 6 November 2018 . 
The outstanding issue for me to decide is whether the £100 compensation MBNA 
has paid is sufficient as Mr L doesnt feel it is.
The £100 already paid seems to have been made up of £50 for wrong information 
given to Mr L and a further £50 when the initial £50 wasnt made so I dont believe 
these payments were made to cover any distress and inconvenience 
Its not always appropriate to award additional financial compensation. The main 
issue Mr L complained of was the date of the default ,he asked for this to be 
changed which MBNA has agreed to do.
I appreciate Mr L has health and financial issues to deal with which I dont doubt 
have caused him some distress, but I dont think MBNAs actions were 
unreasonable. Consumers often dont want defaults recorded as soon as they have 
financial problems, its often appropriate to have time for financial situations to 
improve. I appreciate given Mr Ls health situation this was perhaps not the case, but 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr L asked for an immediate default and didnt get 
it.
I think MBNA did try to help by not applying interest to Mr Ls account and in agreeing 
a modest repayment plan. It dealt with Mr Ls complaint promptly. It didnt initially 
agree to change the default date as it concluded it followed its correct processes at 
the time . Although our investigator reached a different view that doesnt mean that 
MBNA were absolutely  wrong to apply the default date that it did. 
I have carefully considered all the comments Mr L has made about compensation. 
But I dont believe he has evidenced any specific problems caused by the date of the 
original default , other than the inconvenience of wanting to change the date, that 
lead me to feel further compensation is appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman