DRN-3336198
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Creation Financial Services Limited trading as Creation didnt default 
her credit cards in 2013. Instead it continued to charge her interest while she was in a debt 
management plan and her accounts defaulted in 2018 and 2020 respectively. She wants the 
defaults backdated to 2013.
What happened
Mrs S had two credit cards operated by Creation. In 2013, she was experiencing financial 
difficulties, was missing payments and was in arrears. She says she agreed a payment plan 
for both credit cards but as her situation didnt improve she entered a debt management plan 
in July 2013. Mrs S says that interest continued to be applied to her accounts, so she wasnt 
able to reduce the debts. Defaults were applied in 2018 and 2020 but she thinks the 
accounts should have been defaulted in 2013 as she was only making token payments.
Creation says that its records showed Mrs S was in financial difficulties in 2013 and 2015 
and that arrangements with reduced rates of interest were applied. It says that Mrs S didnt 
miss six consecutive months of payments and it didnt default Mrs S accounts.
Our investigator didnt think that Creation was wrong not to apply the defaults to Mrs S 
accounts in 2013 but she thought that defaults should have been applied when it decided to 
sell the accounts to a third party. Therefore, she recommended that the defaults were back 
dated to February 2016.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view. She reiterated that the payments she was 
making through her debt management plan were token and that it would have taken her 
more than six years to repay the debts.
Creation also disagreed with our investigators view. It reiterated that while there were 
missed payments on Mrs S account she wasnt six months in arrears when she entered a 
repayment plan.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mrs S was experiencing financial difficulties in 2013. She had two accounts with 
Creation  one was opened in October 2010 (Account 1) and the second in June 
2012 (Account 2). A default is applied when a consumer fails to meet certain financial 
obligations. It is generally when arrears have reached an unacceptable level, most 
often when an account is three to six months in arrears. While six months of arrears 
may be a reasonable time to apply a default, it isnt a requirement that this happens 
at that time and it is possible that working with a consumer where there is a 
continuing relationship provides a better outcome.
There were arrears on both of Mrs S accounts in 2013. These built up over a few 
months and then payments were made. As Mrs S made payments towards her 
arrears in the first half of 2013 I did not think it was unreasonable that Creation didnt 
default her accounts at that time. Mrs S was trying to manage her accounts and I 
didnt think it unreasonable that Creation allowed time for Mrs S to see if she could 
return to her contractual payments.
Mrs S said she entered a debt management plan in July 2013. I hadnt seen the 
details of this but saw she started to make regular, although reduced, payments 
towards her accounts from September 2013. At this time, the relationship was still 
ongoing with Mrs S and she had taken steps towards managing her debt and so 
again, I did not think it unreasonable that any default consideration was put on hold 
at that time.
From September 2013 until the accounts were sold, Mrs S was generally making 
payments of less than £20 towards Account 1 and just over £40 towards Account 2. I 
wouldnt say that these payments were token and I noted that she was maintaining 
the payments. That said, the payments werent making any significant inroads into 
her outstanding debt as a significant amount of the payment was offset by the 
interest charge.
I noted Creations comment about reducing the interest rate and accepted that it 
wasnt required to stop charging interest when Mrs S entered the debt management 
plan. However, given the payments that she was making and the overall impact on 
her outstanding balance, I thought it would have been reasonable to regularly review 
her situation.
I checked Mrs S statements from July 2014, a year after she says she entered the 
debt management plan. These showed her outstanding balances had actually 
increased slightly since July 2013. The increase was due to Mrs S payments in 
certain months being less than the amount she was being charged in interest. Had 
Creation been monitoring Mrs S accounts, I thought by the time she had been in the 
debt management plan for a year it would have realised that Mrs S situation wasnt 
improving and that she was still in financial difficulties. Given this, and that continuing 
to apply interest was preventing her reducing her indebtedness, I thought considering 
a default at that time would have been fair and reasonable. Had this happened, 
Mrs S would not have been charged any interest or fees from this time and any 
payments could have been used to start to reduce her outstanding balances.
Creation didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said that Mrs S had made payments 
through her debt management plan which had been set up to help her maintain her 
contractual payments. It said that the account was passed to a third party in 2016 and the 
third party allowed two further years before a default was applied. It said that the interest 
charged on Mrs S account was reduced initially to 12% and then reduced further with longer 
term arears. It said that a decision was made in 2015 that any form of financial difficulty 
would be at a 0% rate. It said it followed the correct procedures at the time and wasnt 
required to apply a default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider each case based on its individual merits. I take relevant rules and 
guidance into consideration, but my decision is based on what I think fair and reasonable 
given the unique circumstances of the complaint. Mrs S was experiencing financial difficulties in 2013. As I set out in my provisional decision, 
while arrears did build up in 2013, I think Creation acted fairly at that time by not applying a 
default and working with Mrs S, allowing her time to see if she could return to her contractual 
payments. 
However, given Mrs S situation, that is that she had entered a debt management plan and 
that her payments werent reducing her outstanding balance by any notable amount I think 
her situation should have been monitored and regularly reviewed. 
I note Creations comments about the reduced interest rate being applied and I do not find I 
can say that it was required at that time to stop charging interest. However, having 
considered Mrs S account over the year since she entered the debt management plan and 
noting that the balances had actually increased slightly, I think that Creation should have 
realised that Mrs S situation wasnt improving and that her financial difficulties werent short 
term. Given this, I think that applying a default at this time would have been reasonable.
I understand Creations point
 that it wasnt required to apply a default, however I have considered what I think fair and 
reasonable in this case and having looked at the situation of Mrs S accounts and that she 
wasnt able to make payments that were reducing the outstanding balances, I think it would 
have been fair for a default to have been registered in 2014.
Putting things right
As I think that Mrs S accounts should have been defaulted in July 2014 and the accounts 
were sold in February 2016, I now find that Creation should buy back the accounts, or if it is 
unable or unwilling to do this, it should work with the new owner to ensure the following 
happens:
the default dates are back dated to July 2014 and any required amendments are 
made to Mrs S credit file to reflect.
all payments made from July 2014 are treated as though they were payments of 
capital and used to reduce Mrs S outstanding balances. If this results in any 
overpayments these should be refunded to Mrs S along with 8% simple interest* per 
year from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. If there are still 
outstanding balances on the accounts then the business should work with Mrs S to 
set up an affordable repayment plan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Financial Services Limited trading 
as Creation should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman