DRN-4098133
The complaint
This complaint has been brought on behalf of the estate of Mrs S by her executor, who Ill 
refer to as Ms W. Ms W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold an interest only mortgage to Mrs S 
and didnt treat her fairly when she was in financial difficulty. Ms W says Mrs S was 
vulnerable and Lloyds caused her distress which affected her mental and physical health.
What happened
Ms W set out in detail her concerns about the mortgage Mrs S had with Lloyds. 
Our investigator said we cant look into all parts of the complaint raised by Ms W, as some 
parts had been brought to us outside our time limits. He said we can look into whether 
Lloyds should have offered a further advance in 2008 and whether it treated Mrs S fairly 
when she was in arrears. Lloyds and Ms W agreed to proceed on that basis.
Our investigator said it wasnt clear from the evidence that Lloyds had assessed Mrs Ss 
application for additional borrowing fairly in 2008. However, the funds were used to repay a 
second charge loan. Our investigator said it was likely this had a higher interest rate than the 
Lloyds mortgage, so Mrs S was in a better position as a result. There was no financial loss. 
Our investigator said Mrs S was unable to afford her monthly payments after she retired. He 
said Lloyds stayed in contact with Mrs S and offered forbearance. It didnt pursue recovery 
action. The mortgage was already on interest only terms and Mrs Ss circumstances meant 
she had limited options. Mrs S told Lloyds she intended to repay the mortgage either by 
selling the property or by selling a property shed inherited. 
Ms W didnt agree. In summary, she said the secured loan was on a repayment basis and 
would have been repaid at the end of its term, which would have benefitted Mrs S. She said 
Mrs S was in ill health and financial difficulties in 2008. She said Lloyds should have 
signposted her to charities offering advice rather than lend irresponsibly and in breach of its 
own lending criteria.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W detailed her concerns about Lloyds decision to offer the additional borrowing in 2008, 
and how it dealt with Ms Ws account more recently. Ive read Ms Ws comments and the 
evidence she provided carefully. We provide an informal dispute resolution service. My role 
is to reach a decision about whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each 
complaint. Im required to explain my reasons for reaching my decision. But Im not required 
to respond to each point raised by Ms W.
I should also explain the basis on which we award compensation. We dont have the powers 
of a regulator and I dont have the power to fine Lloyds. I can require Lloyds to pay 
compensation if I find that it made an error and needs to put matters right. But whether its 
fair to require this, and the amount of any compensation, would depend what effect the error 
had on Mrs S. 
Some of these events happened more than 10 years ago. Mrs S has died and cant provide 
her testimony about what happened or how this affected her. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The additional borrowing in 2008
Rules on mortgage regulation have changed significantly since 2008. The checks that 
lenders now have to carry out before offering or varying a mortgage are more stringent than 
in 2008. But even if Lloyds was irresponsible to offer additional borrowing to Mrs S, that 
doesnt mean it would be fair and reasonable to require it to pay compensation. That would 
depend whether this resulted in financial loss, distress or inconvenience to Mrs S.
The evidence strongly suggests that the additional borrowing taken out in 2008 was used to 
repay a second charge loan  this was a condition of the additional borrowing.
Ms W says Mrs S would have been better off keeping the second charge loan, as it was on a 
repayment basis and would have been repaid by the end of its term. Ms W provided an 
arrears statement for the second charge loan dated early 2007. The loan was on a 
repayment basis, but with a 30-year term. Even if Mrs S maintained repayments she 
wouldnt have repaid the loan until 2036. Given that Mrs S struggled with her debt 
repayments, I think theres a significant risk shed have struggled to maintain repayments for 
the second charge loan. 
The additional borrowing didnt increase Mrs Ss overall indebtedness, or the amount of debt 
secured on her home. Payments were on an interest only basis and its likely that the 
interest rate was lower than the second charge loan. Most likely, using the additional 
borrowing to repay the second charge loan reduced Mrs Ss monthly outgoings. 
It seems Mrs S was struggling to manage her debt repayments before she took out the 
additional borrowing. Unfortunately, this was still the case afterwards. By 2010 Mrs S had 
entered into a debt management plan, which included unsecured debts of about £40,000. 
Mrs S was struggling to manage her debts and this must have been worrying for her. But I 
dont think I can fairly find that Lloyds was responsible for her being in this position by 
offering the additional borrowing. If anything, it likely reduced the cost of Mrs Ss monthly 
debt repayments at a time when she was struggling to manage them (this seems to have 
been her aim in taking out the additional borrowing). I havent seen any evidence that Lloyds 
knew  or should have known  that Mrs S had health problems in 2008 that would have 
made the lending inappropriate.
Mrs S was able to maintain her monthly mortgage payments (or catch up with any missed 
payments) until early 2019. Lloyds didnt pursue legal action after Mrs Ss mortgage fell into 
arrears. Its difficult to know if Mrs S would have been able to maintain repayments for the 
second charge loan (if shed kept it), or if the second charge lender would have exercised 
similar forbearance if the loan had fallen into arrears. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think the additional borrowing put Mrs S in a worse 
financial position or caused her financial loss. I dont think it was the cause of Mrs Ss 
financial difficulties, or the stress and worry that would have caused. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Lloyds to write off any part of the mortgage balance or pay compensation.
Did Lloyds treat Mrs S fairly when her mortgage was in arrears? 
Mrs S missed mortgage payments in late 2016. She explained her circumstances to Lloyds, 
and it agreed to hold recovery action while she caught up with her payments. Lloyds says 
while Mrs S sometimes missed payments, she would then bring the account up to date. 
The term of the additional borrowing expired in April 2018, with the capital balance unpaid. 
Mrs S contacted Lloyds in April 2018, expressing surprise that the term had expired as shed 
expected it to expire in 2024 like the other parts of the mortgage. Lloyds says Mrs S was 
aware of the maturity date, which was set out in statements. Lloyds says it wrote to Mrs S 
about the end of term in 2017 and in early 2018, but it didnt send further chasing letters.
Lloyds sent an agent to visit Mrs S in early 2019, to discuss her arrears. Mrs S didnt talk to 
the agent at that time due to her health and family circumstances. She contacted Lloyds later 
that year to set up a payment arrangement. Mrs S told Lloyds about her health problems and 
financial difficulties in late 2019. It referred her to websites and charities that could offer help 
and advice. 
Also in late 2019, Mrs S told Lloyds shed inherited a property and would sell that property or 
the security property to repay the mortgage. In early 2020 she said shed moved into the 
other property and would sell the security property. She updated her address with Lloyds. 
Mrs S asked Lloyds not to contact her, due to her health.
Ms W says Lloyds records arent correct as Mrs S hadnt inherited a property. I dont think 
Lloyds would reasonably have known that. Given Mrs S had asked Lloyds not to contact her 
because of her health, I think it was fair for Lloyds to accept what she told it without requiring 
further evidence at that time. 
In March 2021 Lloyds referred Mrs S to its customer priority team due to issues with her 
health. Mrs S died in March 2021. 
Ms W says that Mrs S was vulnerable, as she had serious health problems and financial 
difficulties, and Lloyds should have offered better support. While Mrs S was late with some 
payments and told Lloyds about some of her health issues, I dont think, in fairness, Lloyds 
would have known how vulnerable she was until 2019. Until then, Mrs S had maintained her 
monthly mortgage payments, or quickly caught up with any missed payments. She told 
Lloyds she didnt have credit card debts, and when it carried out an income and expenditure 
with her this suggested she had a small surplus after meeting essential payments. Mrs S told 
Lloyds more about her health problems and financial difficulties in late 2019. 
Lloyds needed to remain in contact with Mrs S about her arrears and the expired part of her 
mortgage, while being sympathetic to her health and circumstances. Lloyds offered short 
term payment plans and put recovery action and contact on hold when Mrs S asked it to. It 
accepted what Mrs S told it about selling the security property to repay the mortgage, and 
exercised forbearance in the meantime. 
Mrs Ss circumstances were difficult, and I can appreciate they caused her worry and 
distress. But I dont think its fair to say that Lloyds was responsible for this, or that it acted 
unreasonably or treated Mrs S unfairly. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances to require Lloyds to pay compensation. 
The mortgage debt remains outstanding, and monthly interest payments havent been 
maintained. I would urge Ms W to contact Lloyds about how the mortgage will be repaid. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman