DRN-2656405
The complaint
Mrs K complains, on behalf of her business  which Ill call E  that Lloyds Bank PLC wont 
refund money it lost when it fell victim to a scam.  
What happened
Mrs Ks email was hacked by fraudsters. Pretending to be Mrs K, an email was sent to Es 
bookkeeper requesting a payment be made of £7,473.56, on 8 March 2019. Believing the 
request to be a legitimate request from Mrs K, the bookkeeper made the payment. 
Mrs K noticed the payment a short time later and reported the matter to Lloyds. It made an 
attempt to recover the funds from the recipient bank and on 9 May 2019, £3,663.16 was 
returned to Es account as a result. 
Mrs K complained as she believed Lloyds ought to have done more to prevent the fraud from 
happening. And she was unhappy with how Lloyds handled the matter, including delays in 
communicating and that customer service had been rude and unhelpful.  Lloyds upheld the 
complaint in part  it agreed it hadnt provided a good service and offered E £100 
compensation. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong in making the payment as 
requested. 
Our investigator didnt think the bank had done anything wrong. He didnt think the payment 
was unusual or uncharacteristic such that it ought to have paused the payment. And he was 
satisfied the £100 compensation for any customer service issues was reasonable. 
Mrs K has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, she says:
The only similar payments in the previous six months were to a government 
department so she remains of the view the amount was much larger than would 
usually be made. 
That, alongside it being to a new payee, ought to have raised suspicions and 
prompted Lloyds to hold the payment. 
The bookkeeper didnt have any experience of scams but it cant be argued that 
Lloyds wouldnt have been aware of the warning signs in March 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mrs K and Lloyds that although I have only summarised 
the evidence and arguments made, I have read and considered everything provided. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and in accordance with banking terms and 
conditions, banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into giving that authorisation or it was obtained by third-party fraud. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
The first question I therefore need to consider is whether Lloyds breached that duty when 
executing Es payment request?
There is no dispute that Es bookkeeper was duped into authorising a payment to a third-
party fraudster. I understand the bookkeeper had the banking details necessary to make 
such payments. I therefore conclude the payment was authorised  for which E is liable 
unless there is evidence that the bank could and should have doe more to protect it, which 
issue I now turn to. 
The sum paid is not insubstantial and so I have considered whether this ought to have 
triggered the banks alert system such that it ought to have questioned whether E was the 
victim of a scam and intervened. In the 12 months leading up to the payment in question, 
transactions of anywhere up to £10,000 were regularly made out of the account at any one 
time. And the account was often many thousands into its agreed overdraft. And in January 
2019, a payment of nearly £19,000 was made. I accept many of these payments were often 
made to beneficiaries paid before, but they were for higher or similar sums to that in dispute, 
which Mrs K had not queried  and therefore appear legitimate. And the payment in dispute 
resulted in the account going into its overdraft by only a relatively small amount  which of 
itself wasnt unusual when compared to its previous use.
Im not persuaded the fact the payment was being made to a new beneficiary is necessarily 
an indicator of fraud. Im mindful that this is a business account and so making a payment to 
a new beneficiary wouldnt be considered that unusual. Overall, and having considered the 
matter carefully, Im not persuaded the payment was so unusual or uncharacteristic that it 
ought to have triggered an alert or given the bank grounds for suspecting fraud. 
It follows that I find no persuasive evidence that Lloyds breached its duty to E or that it 
shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment request that had been made and 
authorised. There is a reasonable balance to be struck for the benefit of all payment-service 
users and/or commercial efficiency  and the bank did also have a duty to execute a 
properly-authorised payment request within a reasonable period. 
I turn now to the customer service issues and can see that Mrs K did need to follow the 
matter up on more than one occasion and wasnt always fully informed about what was 
happening and when. I accept that caused an inconvenience to E as Mrs K would have been 
spending time on that instead of running the business. Overall, I find the £100 compensation 
offered for the inconvenience reflective of the impact that had.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has already fairly resolved 
this complaint. It should pay E £100 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman