DRN-2949763
The complaint
Mr Is complaint is about a mobile phone insurance policy sold to him by National 
Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West).
What happened
Mr Is mobile phone insurance policy is provided as part of a package of benefits with his 
bank account with Nat West. In August 2020, Mr I made a claim as he had smashed the 
screen on his mobile phone.
Mr I was very unhappy with the service provided in response to his claim and made a 
complaint about the handling of the mobile phone insurance claim by the insurance provider 
and against Nat West, as it had sold the policy to him. I issued a decision on the complaint 
about the insurance provider in May 2021. I was satisfied the insurer had acted in line with 
the policy terms and had not done anything wrong. This decision is only about Nat Wests 
involvement in the policy and the following issues raised by Mr I: 
he was not told the underwriter of the policy had changed since he first took
out the policy, or that he would have to deal with claims-handling agents.
When he first took out the policy there was no excess to pay in the event of a claim
and he was not notified of the change in insurance terms which introduced excess of
£50 or £100 (dependant on the type of claim). He has provided a copy of his original
policy documents to support this.
He has not been sent renewal documents for the policy and only sees the premium
leave his account.
Mr I has asked Nat West to refund all the payments for the phone insurance and 
compensate him. 
Nat West says the underwriter of the mobile phone insurance cover changed with effect from 
1 October 2019 and it sent out notifications to all relevant customers, including Mr I, to notify 
them of this change in September 2019. It also says the notification included that claims- 
handling agents would administer the policy and that it provided a link to a copy of relevant 
documents (which are also available at any time on its website) which set out the excesses. 
In addition, each year eligibility statements with details of the cover provided are sent to all 
customers. Nat West therefore says it provided Mr I with all relevant information to allow him 
to decide whether to continue with this package and it did nothing wrong. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend that the complaint 
be upheld, as she as satisfied Mr I had been informed of the changes to the policy. 
Mr I doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr I took out the account that included a package of benefits for payment of a 
fee in 2011. The package includes the mobile phone insurance, travel insurance, breakdown 
cover and some discounts offers. It appears the terms of the mobile phone insurance policy 
changed since Mr I first took it out - an excess was introduced and the underwriter changed. 
This is not unreasonable; Nat West sells the package of benefits and is entitled to choose 
which products are included in that package. 
Nat West did inform Mr I of the change of underwriter and the use of claims-handlers in 
2019. I am satisfied that this notification and the annual renewal documents were sent to   
Mr I. If Mr I didnt receive those documents that is not something I can hold Nat West 
responsible for. I am satisfied Nat West did what it was required to do in informing Mr I of the 
change of underwriter and the fact claims-handlers would be used. 
It is not so clear when the excess payment was introduced and Nat West has not said Mr I  
was explicitly informed of this. It says the details about the excess are contained in the policy 
documents that Mr I was able to access on the website and which it provided a link to when 
it provided updates on the policy. I have read those documents and am satisfied the 
documents are sufficiently clear that an excess will be payable in the event of a successful 
claim. However, I think this change probably should have been made clear when it 
happened. Nat West hasnt provided any evidence that it was. 
However, having said that, I do not think that this means compensation or a refund is 
appropriate. I say this because there is also no evidence that knowing there was an excess 
to pay in the event of a claim would have meant Mr I would have acted any differently. From 
my experience all mobile phone insurance policies require the consumer to pay an excess of 
around the same amount, so Mr I would not have got a policy without such an excess. In 
addition, there is no suggestion (or evidence to support any suggestion) that Mr I would not 
have continued with the package of benefits from Nat West at all. So overall, it seems likely 
to me he would have still continued to renew the package of benefits with Nat West and so 
would be in no different position now. I do not therefore think any award against Nat West is 
required.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman