DRN-3081769
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the charges PSA Finance UK Limited applied when she handed back
a car shed acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In May 2017, Mrs M entered into a hire purchase agreement with PSA to acquire a used car.
Mrs M complains when the car was collected in May 2020, there was no report of the car
having damage at this point. However, she later received an invoice from PSA charging her
for damage on the car. Mrs M says she didnt cause the damage and doesnt think its fair
PSA are charging her for it. So, Mrs M wants PSA to remove the outstanding charges.
PSA say their recoveries agents, who Ill refer to as W, only collected the car and that a
more thorough inspection was carried out on the car by a third-party inspection agent, who
Ill refer to as M. PSA say this was why the damage was identified at a later date. PSA said
the damage caused fell outside of the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations
(BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. However, in view of Mrs Ms disappointment with the
charges, PSA reduced the overall cost from £564 to £423. PSA also removed the £600
charge for the missing services carried out on the car, which they originally charged Mrs M
for as she was able to provide proof of these.
Unhappy with PSAs response, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. One of our
investigators looked into Mrs Ms concerns. In summary, he said PSA hadnt done anything
wrong in charging Mrs M for the damage to the car as they had fairly charged her in line with
the BVRLA guidance. He also explained W were solely responsible for collecting the car and
taking it to the garage to be inspected. So, this was why they hadnt identified the damage
on the car.
Mrs M disagreed. She said her car was driven a further 100 miles by W and reiterated that
she didnt cause the damage to the car. Mrs M says she believes the damage mustve
happened after the car had been collected. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision setting out the below:
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms hire purchase agreement and these state
that she agreed to return the car in good condition and to carry out any repairs and replace
any parts when necessary. The terms and conditions also go on to explain that good
condition is defined as having no abnormal wear and tear and lists damages which they
deem to fall outside of wear and tear.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here,
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body,
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the
first leasing cycle. Although the guidance is usually intended for new cars coming to the end
of their first lease cycle, it can be used for older cars too.
I note Mrs Ms car was around six years old at the point of inspection and it had covered just
over 35,300 miles. So, while Ill take into consideration the BVRLA guidance, Ill also need to
take into account whats fair and reasonable for a car of this age and mileage, as well as the
agreements terms and conditions.
Mrs M says when the car was collected by W, there was no mention of any damage caused
to the car on the vehicle receipt W handed to her at the time. Whilst I can appreciate Mrs Ms
concern, PSA say W arent qualified to inspect the car and this was why there was no
damage noted. PSA also said W were collecting on behalf of M, who were unable to collect
the car themselves due to being closed for a period of time as a result of the pandemic. I
understand there was a two-week period between when the car was collected to when it was
inspected. It appears this was because the car was returned during the pandemic and the
inspection was carried out once M reopened. And I dont find this to be unreasonable. I say
this because this was at an unprecedented time where PSA would have had to find solutions
quickly in order to maintain a service to their customers.
Mrs M has been consistent in telling us that she didnt cause the damage to the car and that
the damage must have happened when the car wasnt in her possession. Mrs M has also
pointed out to us that when the car was collected, it was driven a further 100 miles and she
raised some concerns that she didnt know where the car had gone after it was collected.
PSA say Mrs Ms car was collected by W and was driven straight to Ms location. We asked
PSA for Ms location to see the distance the car travelled and following our own research,
this location does appear to be around 100 miles from Mrs Ms address. So, on balance, its
seems likely to me that the car went straight to Ms location and remained there until it was
inspected.
Additionally, from looking at some of the damage I think its consistent with abnormal wear
and tear. For example, damage to alloy wheels is typically caused when drivers hit the kerb
when parking. So, I dont think its consistent with the one trip to deliver the car  especially
given theres damage to all four alloy wheels. Im also not persuaded that both doors were
damaged in the one journey made between the car being collected and then it being
inspected.
Now that Ive concluded I think it was more likely than not the damage was caused by Mrs
M, Ill go on to assess each item of damage Mrs M is being charged for. Following removal
of the charge for the missing service, Mrs M was charged for the following items of damage
(taken from the vehicle inspection report):
1.Front Alloy Wheel L Corrosion/Rust Alloy Corrosion Impact £65.00
2.Rear Alloy Wheel L Corrosion/Rust Alloy Corrosion Impact £65.00
3.Front Alloy Wheel R Corrosion/Rust Alloy Corrosion Impact £65.00
4.Rear Alloy Wheel R Corrosion/Rust Alloy Corrosion Impact £65.00
5.Front Door L Dent Paint Damage 10mm+ £152.00
6.Front Door R Dent Paint Damage 10mm+ £152.00
In relation to the damage caused to all four alloy wheels, I think its fair for PSA to charge for
these. I say this because the BVRLA guidance says scuffs up to 50mm on the total
circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. Having looked carefully
at all four pictures, I can see the inspector has used a ruler to show the damage on the four
alloy wheels are quite a bit more in excess of the accepted level. So even I was to give moreof an allowance given the car was around six years old at the point of inspection, I think the
damage caused to the wheels still falls outside of fair wear and tear. In addition to this, the
damage is recorded as being corrosion - this is not something that happens instantly and
only happens over a period of time. So even if the alloy wheels were damaged on the
journey, the damage is unlikely to have corroded in the time between collection and
inspection. Indicating, therefore, the damage was likely there before the car was collected.
Ive also carefully looked at the pictures provided in the inspection report of the dents on the
two doors that PSA have charged Mrs M for. The images show the inspector has used a tool
which shows the lines are distorted in the reflection of the car, which I think represents a
dent. So, I think its fair to say there is a dent on both doors of more than 10mm which falls
outside of whats accepted for fair wear and tear as detailed in the agreements terms and
conditions. However, even if I take into account the cars age and mileage, I think the dents
are in excess of fair wear and tear. So, it follows, I think PSA are entitled to charge for this
damage.
On balance, I currently think its more likely than not that the damage was caused by Mrs M.
And I think its fair for PSA to charge for these damages, for the reasons Ive already
explained. In any case, PSA have said theyre prepared to reduce the overall cost of the
charges from £564 to £423 which is a reduction of £141. In the round, this seems fair to me
in the circumstances of this complaint.
PSA responded to my provisional decision letting me know they accept my findings. Mrs M 
responded and said that while she acknowledges there was some damage to the alloy 
wheels, the car was six years old at the time of inspection. Therefore, wear and tear should 
be taken into consideration. Mrs M also says she feels the dents in both doors happened 
whilst the car was out of her possession and that anything could have happened when the 
car once the car was collected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Ms point that the car was around six years old when it was inspected. So, 
she says theres going to be some wear and tear to the alloy wheels. As explained in my 
provisional decision, I thought about the cars age and mileage when looking at the damage 
and deciding whether it falls outside of whats fair and wear tear. So even with this in mind, 
my opinion remains that the damage to the alloy wheels falls outside of fair wear and tear.
I appreciate Mrs Ms concern that the damage to the doors wasnt caused by her. And that 
she thinks it was done when the car was no longer in her possession, after it had been 
collected. While I accept this is a possibility, I havent seen anything to persuade me that the 
car was left at risk of damage, while it remained at Ms location. And as previously explained, 
on balance, it seemed likely to me the car was driven straight to Ms location. So, I dont 
think its likely the damage was caused on route to where the car was then stored. Because 
of that, I think its fair for PSA to charge for the damage which theyve said is £423.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman