DRN-2841549
The complaint
Mr T complains The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) failed to correctly carry out two 
international transfer instructions to an account overseas. As a result he lost out financially. 
Mr T also says he was caused distress in not knowing where his funds were and 
inconvenience in having to chase Co-op to find out what was happening. 
What happened
Mr T says hes made international transfers every month for several years to an account 
overseas. This is to cover rent and other living expenses. On 31 December 2020, Mr T 
contacted Co-op by phone to transfer around £1700. But the transfer wasnt successful. 
At the beginning of January 2021, Mr T contacted Co-op to ask where the funds were as the 
beneficiary bank had said it hadnt received them. He continued to contact Co-op via phone 
and by using its messaging service to chase for updates. On 22 January 2021 Co-op told 
Mr T his funds had been returned on 8 January 2021 and were with its foreign team. Prior to 
this date, it had told Mr T several times it didnt know where the funds were and it thought 
things had gone wrong because hed given the incorrect details for the beneficiary bank. 
Co-op initially didnt agree it had done anything wrong. But after Mr T asked our service to 
look into things, it accepted it had caused delays and it had input the wrong details for the 
transfer. At this point, it offered Mr T £150 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been through and £177.18 to make up the difference in what Mr T 
initially transferred and what he received back. 
On 28 January 2021, Mr T asked Co-op to transfer around $4,400 to the overseas account. 
Unfortunately Co-op instead transferred £4,400 in error. Initially Co-op offered to recall the 
funds and resend the correct amount. But Mr T declined this offer as he didnt want to be left 
out of pocket due to the exchange rate and fees applied. Co-op offered him £100 to make up 
for what had gone wrong. Since coming to our service, Co-op has increased its offer of 
compensation for this error to £200. 
Our investigator thought Co-ops new offer of around £527 was fair as it was in line with what 
wed usually expect to see in these circumstances. And she was satisfied Co-op had tried to 
learn from what had gone wrong by sharing feedback. Mr T didnt agree. He said hes had a 
number of problems with Co-op and he wants some sort of guarantee this wouldnt happen 
again. He also thinks more should be done to safeguard customers and improve Co-ops 
customer service. So the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op accepts it made a number of mistakes in this case. This includes inputting the wrong 
account details when making the initial transfer in December 2020; inputting the wrong 
amount when making the second transfer in January 2021 and providing Mr T with poor 
customer service overall. So what remains for me to consider is what is fair and reasonable 
to put things right. 
Co-op has apologised for the error and offered Mr T a total of around £527. This covers the 
shortfall in the amount returned to him when his transfer was unsuccessful and, 
compensation for how whats happened has impacted him. 
I know Mr Ts said he doesnt think this is enough as theres no guarantee there wont be 
problems if he tries to transfer funds again in the future. And hes highlighted the 
inconvenience this situation has caused his family who had to help him when the funds went 
missing. But I cant ask Co-op to compensate him for what might happen  nor can I direct it 
to compensate Mr T for inconvenience to his family as theyre not party to this complaint. If 
Mr T does have problems when transferring funds via Co-op in the future, hell need to make 
a new complaint. 
Mr T wants Co-op to put procedures in place to stop these problems happening again. But 
its not the role of our service to tell financial businesses how to operate. And in any event, 
from what Co-op has told us about what happened, its likely the problems were caused due 
to human error.
I accept the service Co-op has provided in this complaint isnt what Id expect to see. There 
were a number of times Mr T requested the same information repeatedly or had to chase for 
updates when Co-op shouldve been able to help him much earlier than it did. And Im 
satisfied by what Mr Ts said that this whole experience wouldve been very stressful, 
worrying and frustrating for him, particularly considering the amount of money involved and 
the importance of the funds reaching the beneficiary account. But I think the amount Co-op 
has offered to make up for this is fair and reasonable in this case.  
Overall for these reasons, Im satisfied the offer Co-op has made to pay Mr T £527.18 is fair 
in this case. 
My final decision
The Co-operative Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr T £527.18 to put things right 
and I think this offer is fair in the circumstances. So my final decision is that The Co-
operative Bank Plc should pay Mr T £527.18 if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman