DRN-2291819
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) offered to settle his claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O was mugged while abroad and his designer watch was stolen. So, Mr O contacted 
AXA to make an insurance claim. AXA accepted the claim and said it would pay him £2,500 
for the stolen watch as it was only covered under the personal possessions part of the 
policy, rather than the valuables section, while out of the UK. 
Mr O didnt accept the settlement offered as he said it didnt reflect the watchs value. He 
said the wording of the insurance policy showed that the watch should be covered as a 
valuable and be paid at the full amount for which he had insured it.
Mr O complained to AXA. When AXA replied, it maintained its decision to settle the claim 
under the personal possessions part of the policy, which had a £2,500 limit.
Mr O complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said AXA 
had acted in line with the policys terms and conditions by settling the claim under the 
personal possessions part of the policy.
As Mr O did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O said that the policy documents showed that his watch was insured outside of the home 
for its full value. So, Ive looked at each of the policy documents to see what these said.
Under the Contents section of Mr Os insurance schedule, this showed that the overall 
valuables limit on the policy was £30,000 and the single valuables limit was £15,000. 
Under the Personal Possessions section of the policy, this showed that the sum insured 
was up to £2,500 and the single article limit was also up to £2,500.
Ive also looked at the Personal Possessions part of the policy, which said:
Personal possessions is a cover option you can add to your contents insurance. It provides 
protection to your belongings when away from your home.
It also said that the cover applied to:
Loss or damage to personal effects, valuables and money
anywhere in Europe, Jordan, Madeira, the Canary and Mediterranean islands and those 
countries bordering the Mediterranean
And that:
You have automatically been given a small amount of personal possessions cover. You 
may have increased this amount when you took out this policy. Your schedule will show your 
limit for personal possessions.
In Mr Os case, according to the policy schedule, the personal possessions cover he had in 
place would pay a maximum of £2,500 for a claim. 
Im aware Mr O has said that he thought that the watch was covered for its full value and the 
claim should be paid under the single article limit of £15,000 specified in the Contents part 
of the policy because the watch came under the definition of a valuable. But having looked at 
the details of this case, I think the policy clearly explained that personal possessions cover 
was required to protect belongings outside of the home, including in Europe, which is where 
Mr O was when his watch was stolen and that this included valuables. I think it was also 
clear that a small amount of personal possessions cover was provided automatically and 
that the maximum amount payable was specified in the personal possessions section of the 
schedule. This was specified as £2,500.
Im aware Mr O has said that he thought it was unreasonable to expect someone who wasnt 
an expert on insurance to read and understand all of the information provided. Although I 
can understand that view, it is for the policyholder to ensure that they have the right level of 
cover for their needs. Mr O also said that he specifically read the documents before he went 
abroad to ensure that he had the right level of cover. In my view, the relevant parts of the 
policy were a relatively small part of the documents provided and they also explained how to 
contact AXA with any queries or to ensure the right level of cover was in place. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint. In my view, AXA dealt with 
the claim reasonably and in line with the terms of the policy by settling it under the personal 
possessions part of the policy. As a result, I dont require AXA to do anything further.
Mr O has also said that he thinks he might have been mis-sold the policy. Mr O would need 
to raise this as a separate complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman