DRN-1635640
 
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) are seemingly 
pursuing them both for the same debt having the effect of recovering it twice.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues and is 
known to both Mr R and Mrs R and NatWest, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in 
any detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Historically Mr R and Mrs R had five accounts with NatWest. 4 were joint select accounts 
and the fifth was a loan account. NatWest says all accounts were joint although Mr R 
disputes that in so far as the loan account is concerned. In 2007 NatWest obtained a 
judgment against Mrs R in the County Court for the sum of £33,903.80. It appears that there 
was no judgment obtained against Mr R.
Mr R has been making payments to the debt as has his wife Mrs R, and he has questioned 
why NatWest have used different recovery strategies resulting in different action. He is most 
concerned that between him and his wife he may be required to pay twice the actual sum 
due.
Upon complaint to NatWest they assured him he wasnt paying twice and explained the joint 
and several nature of the debt.
Mr R and Mrs R was unhappy with NatWests final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, 
and having done so, concluded that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with 
the complaint fairly.
Mr R and Mrs R didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether NatWest acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
NatWest has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
I do understand why Mr R and Mrs R would arrive at the conclusion they have. The law can 
be often confusing and complicated at times. Having said that I can see that of the 5 
accounts, Mr R and Mrs R accept 4 were joint select account debts. The fifth they dispute 
but NatWest has clarified that the loan was also a joint loan, and there is no evidence to 
contradict that.
So, the entire indebtedness to NatWest was one which was both joint and several. That 
means that NatWest can choose who they wish to pursue and when. In this case it appears 
they decided to pursue Mrs R through the County Court. I do not know why they didnt 
pursue Mr R, because if they had wanted to, they could. But that was their choice.
Having obtained a judgment against Mrs R this means that they are then permitted to seek 
legal enforcement of it if they wish. Alternatively, they can enter into a payment plan which is 
what appears to have happened. At the same time NatWest are legally entitled to pursue Mr 
R either by seeking to enter into a payment arrangement with him or issuing proceedings 
against him. It appears they have chosen the former.
What is certain is that NatWest are only entitled to the extent of Mr R and Mrs Rs 
indebtedness. That is a fundamental principle in contract law. So even if NatWest were to 
now obtain a judgment against Mr R for a smaller sum than that which they have already 
obtained against Mrs R, it does not mean they would add the two judgment sums together. 
And even if they had obtained a judgment against Mr R when they obtained one against Mrs 
R, it would not mean they were entitled to £33,903.80 from each of them. Once the 
indebtedness has been satisfied, by whomever, and in whatever proportions, the debt will be 
settled.
So, although Mr R and Mrs R will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman