DRN-3791110
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G). He isnt happy that it 
couldnt tell him the date he registered his appliance under his cooker insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C took out his cooker insurance policy and he wanted to check the date he registered his 
appliance in order to make a claim under his warranty. But when he called D&G it wasnt 
able to give him the exact date and so he complained about this. 
D&G apologised for its inability to provide the detail Mr C needed and explained why the call 
takers werent able to access the information Mr C wanted. As Mr C remained frustrated with 
how D&G handled all of this and his complaint generally he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C but didnt uphold his complaint. He accepted that 
it mustve been frustrating for Mr C to not be able to get the information he wanted when he 
called. But he thought D&Gs apology was sufficient as he was able to advance his warranty 
claim and the impact was minimal.
As Mr C didnt agree, and just wanted some compensation as a gesture of goodwill, the 
matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that D&G has acted reasonably in apologising for not being able to 
place the information Mr C required immediately and Im not upholding this complaint.
I can understand why Mr C is frustrated here as he simply wanted the date of registration of 
his appliance. And, unfortunately, D&G couldnt get to the bottom of this for him when he 
called. Ive listened to the call and Im sure Mr C found the process difficult and confusing as 
he couldnt get the information he wanted quickly and was passed to a number of 
departments. 
However, as our investigator outlined, I dont think Mr C was inconvenienced to the degree 
that I would expect him to be compensated. Although it was confusing the impact was limited 
and Mr C went on to advance his warranty claim, so I dont think D&G needs to pay him any 
compensation and an apology was sufficient. 
I note Mr C also wasnt happy that D&G went on to close his complaint down as they thought 
it was resolved when he still wasnt happy. But it thought matters were resolved once Mr C 
was able to advance his warranty claim and this Service wouldnt look at the general 
complaint handling by D&G in any event. 
 
Overall, although I can understand why Mr C was frustrated, I think D&G have acted fairly by 
apologising and giving feedback. I say this as the impact of the error was small and Mr C 
was able to advance his warranty claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Domestic & General Insurance Plc have 
acted fairly in responding to Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman