DRN-3994590
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the service provided by Santander UK Plc during her product 
transfer in July 2022. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint.
Santander has accepted fault and made an offer to Miss M. She didnt accept the offer and 
referred her complaint to our service. Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt 
think Santander had done enough to fairly resolve the complaint. He agreed that 
Santanders offer if £240 compensation for the initial error and then a further £100 for the 
subsequent distress and inconvenience caused was fair. 
He also said it was right for Santander to backdate the rate of 2.24% to July 2022 and return 
the overpayment taken in August 2022. But he also recommended that Santander should 
pay Miss M 8% simple interest on the overpayment from the date it was taken to the date 
Santander returned the overpayment. 
Santander agreed with the recommendations, but Miss M remained unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss Ms application should have been completed in July 2022 and her mortgage 
shouldnt have moved to the standard variable rate. Miss M correctly queried the 
correspondence received from Santander after making the product transfer 
application which suggested she needed to do something further. But Miss M was 
told by Santander the application was in place and she didnt need to do anything. 
Im satisfied that Miss M acted reasonably in taking no further action. So it follows 
that it would have been worrying for her to find out later that the application hadnt 
been progressed or completed as she expected. Miss M says she couldnt afford the 
additional repayment for August 2022, so she needed to borrow money from family to 
cover it, which is likely to have caused some embarrassment and inconvenience.
Santander accepted things didnt happened as they shouldve and agreed to 
backdate the rate to July 2022 and repay any overpayment. It also agreed to pay 
Miss M £240 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied this is fair in the 
circumstances of the case and generally in line with our guidelines as to the trouble 
and upset caused to Miss M. 
Subsequently Santander asked Miss M to make her capital repayment again, but she 
had already paid it in April 2022 when she made the initial application. This also 
would have caused her some worry that the product transfer wasnt progressing as 
quickly as it should have after the delays. Santander offered a further £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im also satisfied this is fair 
in the circumstances and in line with what Id expect it to do for the additional 
frustration caused.
I note Santander has returned the overpayments made by Miss M  which it agreed 
to do in its final response. However, this wasnt done until December 2022. Whilst I 
agree it was right for Santander to honour the initial rate and backdate it to July 2022, 
I dont think it has done enough to resolve the issue. Miss M made the overpayment 
in July 2022, and she didnt have use of her funds from this date so I think it would be 
reasonable for Santander to also pay Miss M 8% simple interest on the overpayment 
from the date it was taken until the date the overpayment was returned to her. 
For these reasons, although I understand Miss Ms strength of feeling, Im satisfied the 
current proposal as set out by the investigator for settling her complaint is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Santander should:
Pay Miss M a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Pay simple interest (the rate of 8% per year) on the over payment from the date it 
was taken to the date it was returned to Miss M. 
If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman