DRN-4271481
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Santander UK Plc wouldnt agree to a new interest rate, or to 
extend the term, of their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have an interest only mortgage with Santander. They took a fixed rate of 
2.99% in 2019, which took them to May 2021. After May 2021, their mortgage was due to 
revert to Santanders follow on rate (FOR), which tracks the Bank of England base rate plus 
3.25%. 
As the end of the term approached, Mr and Mrs K discussed their situation with Santander 
and it agreed an extension of a year, until August 2022, and agreed a further fixed rate of 
2.99% during this time too. That meant that Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage would revert to the 
FOR in August 2022 rather than May 2021. 
During 2022 the Bank of England increased base rate  and it has increased every month 
since August 2022, meaning the FOR, and the amount they have to pay each month, is 
increasing too. Mr and Mrs K say this is causing them financial hardship and uncertainty. 
Mr and Mrs K were able to pay £62,000 in May 2022 and a further £26,000 in 
September 2022 to reduce the capital balance, and a further £15,000 in February 2023 and 
£25,000 in April 2023. In May 2023 they repaid the balance in full. 
Mr and Mrs K had put their residential property on the market but without success. They 
found a buyer, albeit below asking price, but the borrower pulled out because of concerns 
about rising interest rates. They also put an investment property on the market. 
Mr and Mrs K complain that Santander hasnt treated them sympathetically because it 
wouldnt agree to allow their fixed interest rate to continue or offer them a new lower rate; 
because it requires them to call in every month to discuss the progress of the sale, which 
they regard as coercive debt collection. They say Santander told them it cant offer them any 
other options as Mr K is over 75 years of age, which is age discrimination. They say they 
have a low loan to value and a good history, and wanted Santander to have treated them 
fairly until they were able to repay. They say they have fixed pension incomes so there is no 
risk to Santander, and feel theyve been forced to repay with no support  instead Santander 
has threatened to send people to their home or take them to court. 
Santander said it couldnt offer a further extension and the mortgage needed to be repaid. 
And it couldnt offer Mr and Mrs K a new interest rate either, so they would remain on the 
FOR until it was repaid. It said it had offered a one year extension because Mr and Mrs K 
couldnt put their property on the market until June 2022 because of major roadworks in their 
area. But now there was no barrier to the sale of the property to repay the mortgage. 
Santander said it would keep things under review and allow Mr and Mrs K time to repay, but 
couldnt agree a further formal extension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr and Mrs K have faced and Im pleased to hear theyve 
now been able to repay their mortgage to resolve things.
I appreciate this would have been a stressful situation for them. Theyve said that they 
should never have been in this situation in the first place, but I cant look at how the 
mortgage was originally taken out as part of this complaint due to the passage of time. But I 
can see that it was made clear that it was an interest only mortgage, and that Mr and Mrs K 
would need to have a way of repaying the capital balance at the end of the term.
It's reasonable for a lender to expect a mortgage to be repaid at the end of the term  as 
both parties agreed would happen. But where thats not possible I would expect a lender to 
look at a borrowers situation fairly, show reasonable forbearance, and work with the 
borrower to find a way forward to work towards a point where it can be repaid.
Having considered everything that happened in this case, I do think Santander acted fairly 
overall. When Mr and Mrs K first reached the end of their term, in 2021, it discussed things 
with them and noted that they were unable to sell their property at that time because of 
building work in the area. It therefore agreed a one year extension, including a new fixed 
rate, to get Mr and Mrs K past the building work and to the point where they could sell.
Mr and Mrs K did put their property on the market, and also put a separate investment 
property on the market. When the one year extension ended, Santander didnt agree to a 
further formal term extension. As by this point Mr and Mrs K were actively working towards 
repayment  by selling one of their properties  I think this was reasonable. I dont think its 
unfair that Santander wanted to be kept up to date with their progress in working towards 
being able to repay their mortgage. And while it told them what the long-term consequences 
of not repaying might be (as the regulator requires it to do), it didnt take legal or other action 
before the mortgage was repaid.
It's unfortunate that just as the extended fixed rate ended in August 2022, and Mr and Mrs K 
went onto the variable FOR, base rate started to go up month by month, making their 
mortgage more expensive every month. However, I dont think this was arbitrary or unfair, as 
the FOR is tied to base rate  its a tracker rate  and so when the Bank of England 
increased base rate the FOR goes up too. And I dont think Santander ought fairly to have 
offered Mr and Mrs K a new fixed rate at this point. Their mortgage term had come to an 
end, and they could have repaid the balance in full at any time. A new fixed rate would 
require an extension to the mortgage term and might also come with an early repayment 
charge.
I take Mr and Mrs Ks point that they have a good payment history, generous fixed pensions 
and a low loan to value. I agree that from the point of view of maintaining monthly interest 
payments theyre likely to present a low risk to Santander. 
But its not just about paying the interest; Santander is entitled to expect the capital balance 
to be repaid too. Mr and Mrs K did have several options available  selling this property, 
selling one of their other properties, or re-financing (for example with a lifetime mortgage) 
among them  and in those circumstances its fair and reasonable to expect them to repay 
as they agreed they would when they took the mortgage out.
Mr and Mrs K have referred to the Mortgage Credit Directive, which came into force in 2016  but this doesnt apply to their mortgage which was taken out before 2016. 
Mr and Mrs K also complain that Santander discriminated against them on the grounds of 
their age, in particular because Mr K is over the age of 75. Ive taken the relevant law on this 
 the Equality Act 2010 and associated regulations  into account. The law says that 
financial services providers can take age into account but only in certain circumstances. 
Although I take relevant law into account, specific findings of a breach of the Equality Act are 
more a matter for the courts than they are for me. I think the crucial question is whether 
Santander acted fairly when it required Mr and Mrs K to repay their mortgage rather than 
agree to a further term extension. In all the circumstances, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I think it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman