DRN-4128206
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled 
their claim on their home insurance policy following a flood. 
Throughout the claim and complaint Mr and Mrs C have been represented by a third party. 
However, for ease of reading, in this decision Ive referred only to Mr and Mrs C. All 
references to them include the actions of their representative. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had home insurance with RSA. In January 2021 there was a flood at their 
property that caused significant damage. They made a claim on the insurance which was 
accepted.
Mr and Mrs C appointed their own loss assessor to manage the claim on their behalf. The 
loss assessor appointed a chartered building surveyor to carry out a tender process for the 
contract to do the work. As part of this five contractors were approached for quotes for the 
reinstatement work required at the property. This included one that was suggested by RSA 
and one that was Mr and Mrs Cs preferred contractor. 
Following the process, RSA agreed to cover the cost of the lowest quote returned. While Mr 
and Mrs Cs preferred contractor initially agreed to match this, it later pulled out as it wouldnt 
agree to all the potential required costs. Therefore the contractor suggested by RSA were 
appointed to carry out the work  Ill refer to them as J.
Over the months that followed, J proceeded to carry out the reinstatement work and RSA 
made payment to them as it was presented with invoices for the required amounts. However 
Mr and Mrs C were very unhappy with the standard of work and how quickly the claim 
progressed. In October 2021 they made a complaint to RSA.
In December 2021 RSA responded upholding the complaint. It said it couldnt consider any 
of Mr and Mrs Cs concerns in relation to the actions of J, as they had been appointed by Mr 
and Mrs C rather than RSA so it wasnt responsible for their actions. However RSA accepted 
it had provided poor service when arranging and making payment for some of the work as 
well as the alternative accommodation and associated costs. It offered £2,000 compensation 
to apologise for this. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with this. They said J had been RSAs preferred contractor and 
it had introduced J to the tendering process, so RSA should be responsible for Js work. 
They also said RSA had directed J to clean the external render of the building before 
attempting to replace it. But following the clean the render had been damaged further and 
now RSA were refusing to cover the cost, which they didnt think was fair. They brought the 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said J had been appointed 
by Mr and Mrs C and their loss assessor and therefore werent acting as an agent of RSA. 
So he agreed that RSA wasnt responsible for the poor work carried out by J. Further he 
thought RSAs request for J to clean the render before agreeing to replace it was fair, but J 
had used an inappropriate method to do so which had damaged the render further. So he 
didnt think RSA had acted unfairly by declining to replace it following the damage caused by 
J. And while he agreed RSA had caused some delays and poor service, he thought the 
£2,000 compensation it had already offered was fair to make up for this.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators outcome. They said that as RSAs agent 
introduced them to J, then it should be liable for Js actions. They also said that the damage 
to the render was due to the flood and not the cleaning so the repair should be covered by 
RSA. And the £2,000 compensation wasnt enough to cover the cost of rectifying the poor 
work J had carried out so it wasnt sufficient compensation. They asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Js actions
A large part of this complaint relates to the actions of J  the standard of the work they 
completed and the delays this poor work has caused. However the complaint I am looking at 
here is against RSA, so Im considering whether it has acted fairly and if it has got anything 
wrong. And Id only be able to say RSA got something wrong in relation to the repairs if Id 
found that it was responsible for J  so if J had acted as RSAs agent.
Here, Ive not found that to be the case. The reason for Js appointment was due to cost. Js 
quote was more competitive than others and because of this RSA agreed only to cover up to 
Js costs. As RSA agreed to the cheaper cost only, this meant that payment would only be 
up to this amount, and this isnt unreasonable or unusual. In fact it is the reason why a 
tendering process is carried out for work  so the insurer can be sure that the appointed 
contractors rates are competitive. So I dont agree this shows that RSA were instructing J. 
Instead it shows that RSA had a responsibility to regulate cost.
In fact the tendering process was run by a surveyor who had been appointed by Mr and Mrs 
Cs loss assessor. And in the tendering report provided by the surveyor, they state that they 
already have a formal working relationship with J and have instructed them previously. So 
while RSA did suggest J, I dont agree that J were only included due to RSAs involvement. 
Following the tendering process, there was a pre-contract meeting between Mr C, their 
appointed surveyor and J. And Ive been provided with the minutes from this meeting which 
were circulated to all attendees. From the discussions in the meeting, it was made clear that 
the instruction of J is between Mr and Mrs C and their appointed surveyor. Including the 
statement that: [the surveyor] confirmed Letter of Instruction has been duly signed by the 
client. [Mr and Mrs Cs loss assessor] confirmed payment mandate has been previously 
issued to the Loss Adjuster. This shows that J has been instructed directly by Mr and Mrs C 
and RSAs loss adjuster is only involved to check the payment mandates and arrange 
payment. 
While RSA agreed to let Mr and Mrs C appoint their own expert, this didnt mean it would 
have no involvement in the claim. As it had accepted the insurance claim, it still maintained 
the responsibility of ensuring the work that was being completed fell within the policy liability. 
And for arranging payment for this work. For this reason, its loss adjuster had to retain some 
involvement with the claim.However from what Ive seen its clear that Mr and Mrs C opted to hand the project 
management of the claim over to their own loss assessor. And the appointment of J was 
done through them. For this reason J werent acting as RSAs agent and therefore RSA 
arent responsible for Js actions, so I am unable to consider any issues relating to poor work 
or delays caused by J as part of this complaint. 
Render
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy that RSA has said it will no longer pay for the damaged 
render, as it says this was caused by J using an inappropriate cleaning method. 
Following the flood, I can see there was some damage to the external render. RSA said that 
in the first instance this should be cleaned, as the damage appeared to be largely water 
staining so it could likely be restored that way. However J power washed the surface which 
RSA has said was not an appropriate method and caused irreparable damage, which means 
it now needs replacing. 
RSA has shown that the flood water only came up to a height of 150mm. And the damage to 
the render that has led to the need for its replacement is above this level. For this reason I 
am persuaded by its explanation that the reason the render now needs to be replaced is due 
to damage caused by the cleaning carried out by J, rather than the flood. And as RSA arent 
responsible for Js actions and the damage isnt related to the flood, I think its acted fairly 
and reasonably by declining to replace the damaged render. 
Compensation 
While RSA isnt responsible for Js actions, it is responsible for ensuring prompt and 
accurate payment of claim related costs to ensure the work can commence. And I can see 
that it didnt always do this.
For example it under paid Mr and Mrs C for their alternative accommodation costs in the final 
location, even though there were no viable alternatives for them to book at the time. And this 
was only rectified when they complained. Further, it took some time for it to address issues 
regarding the additional utility bills Mr and Mrs C paid while they were out of their home. 
For this reason, I agree RSA caused some additional distress and inconvenience on top of 
the distress of a significant flood claim, so I agree compensation is due. 
However RSA has already offered Mr and Mrs C £2,000 compensation and I think this is 
enough to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused. I therefore wont ask it to 
pay anything further. 
I note Mr and Mrs C have said that this wouldnt be enough to cover the work they need to 
have re-done due to the poor repairs carried out by J. However that is not what the 
compensation is intended for. It is to make up for the impact of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by RSA. And in the circumstances I think this is enough.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman