DRN-3765912
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclays) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In September 2021, a Barclays current account in Mr Bs name received payments totalling 
just under £5,000.00 from a third-party. The funds were transferred on to a crypto-currency 
account. Shortly afterwards, Barclays received a notification from the bank which sent the 
payments stating that the payer of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Barclays 
reviewed the account, decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker against 
Mr B.
After his account with a different bank was closed, Mr B subsequently learned of the fraud 
marker recorded against him and complained to Barclays. Barclays looked at Mr Bs 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr B remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. He didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Bs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr B was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr B allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Bs account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays has 
done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered the 
account in Mr Bs name in September 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the 
only matter which remains in dispute here is whether Mr B was complicit in this activity. 
Mr B says he had nothing to do with what happened as the account was opened without his 
knowledge or consent. He said that he was mugged in August 2021 and his driving licence 
as well as his debit card for another bank were taken from him. Mr B also confirmed that he 
was temporarily living away from the address recorded on the application and which all the 
correspondence regarding the account was sent to, at the time the account was opened, as 
he was looking after his grandmother elsewhere. 
Ive thought about what Mr B has said. But Im afraid that his version of events simply isnt 
supported by the other available evidence. Not only was an application for a bank account 
made using all of Mr Bs correct details, but the documentation provided to verify his identity 
was issued after the date Mr B says he was mugged. Furthermore, Barclays has also 
provided an image from a video that needed to be uploaded as part of the account opening 
and the person in the image bears a similar resemblance to the photo on Mr Bs driving 
licence. 
Equally, a phone with the mobile number Mr B still uses to this day, was registered on the 
account. I know that Mr B now says that his phone was also stolen when he was mugged 
but without anything at all to support this  such as police reports or replacement cards 
being requested - its difficult for me to accept what he now says at face value given the 
sheer number of inconsistencies and discrepancies in what hes said during the course of his 
complaint.
Finally, even if I were to accept that Mr Bs items were stolen in the way he says they were 
(for the avoidance of doubt I want to make it clear that Ive not been provided with enough to 
be satisfied this is the case), its still unclear to me how an opportunist thief would have been 
able to intercept the account opening documentation, most of which was sent in the post, 
needed to carry out the fraudulent activity on the account. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered an account in Mr Bs name. And given what 
Ive said about Mr Bs inconsistency as well as the information and communications required 
to carry out the activity being sent to Mr Bs correct address, it was also reasonably entitled 
to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr B was complicit in this. As this is the case, I 
dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So Im therefore not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, 
while I appreciate that Mr B was incorrectly told that the fraud marker would be removed, 
Barclays has offered him £125 for the poor service surrounding this. As Im not persuaded 
that Barclays should remove the marker, I leave it to Mr B to decide whether he wishes to accept Barclays offer and Barclays final response sets out what he needs to do in the event 
he wishes to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman