DRN-1741777
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy at the redress offered following the rejection of a caravan, and the 
unwinding of a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse Limited after it had been agreed 
the goods were not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr M acquired a new static caravan from a holiday park operator via a ten-year 
hire purchase agreement with Black Horse. The caravan was brand new. It was arranged for 
the caravan to be delivered and set up at a park in June 2017. Mr M also says he was 
advised that the sites fees, for the remainder of 2017, were included in the sales price.
Unfortunately, when the caravan was delivered, Mr M found a number of issues such as 
dents to the outside and the caravan wobbling. Mr M complained to the holiday park 
operator about the condition of the caravan.
Most of the remedial work raised by Mr M was repaired, but the caravan still had some minor 
dents to the front and side and some kitchen drawers were misaligned. Despite having dealt 
with the holiday park operator for around two years these issues remained outstanding.
Mr M was also disappointed to be charged site fees for December 2017. He raised this with 
the holiday park operator.
After experiencing issues with the site, and chasing for the repairs, Mr M decided to sell the 
caravan in June 2019. Mr M says that the holiday park operator challenged him over the 
advertisement he used to show the caravan was for sale and this led him to research what 
options were open to him to resolve the matter. Mr M says he then learnt about his rights 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 to complain to the 
finance provider about the quality of the goods supplied.
In July 2019 Mr M complained to Black Horse about the quality of the caravan and included 
his correspondence with the holiday park operator.
Black Horse arranged for the caravan to be independently inspected by an engineer. The 
engineer was instructed to identify any faults and provide an opinion as to whether those 
faults had been present since the point of sale,
The independent engineer reported that the caravan was in very good condition but that 
there were dents, a leaking guttering and a set of kitchen drawers out alignment. The 
engineer said these issues were minor and rectifiable. They also said that the faults 
identified were with serviceable items and, as the caravan was now two years old, the issues 
were likely to be due to wear and tear.
In August 2019 Black Horse wrote to Mr M and said it wasnt upholding his complaint about 
the quality of the caravan. However, Mr M challenged Black Horses decision and sent again 
the evidence of the faults with the caravan that he had been complaining about since the 
beginning of the hire purchase agreement. Black Horse re-opened his complaint.
In September 2019 Mr M complained to this service and said he wanted to reject the 
caravan for not being of satisfactory quality and also because of the length time taken to 
repair the faults. While this service investigated Mr Ms complaint Black Horse upheld Mr Ms 
complaint and agreed that the caravan could be rejected, and the agreement unwound. It 
reimbursed Mr Ms deposit with interest and paid £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused dealing.
However, Black Horse said it wasnt reimbursing the monthly payments made by Mr M under 
the agreement as, although the caravan had been faulty, these issues had not prevented 
him from getting enjoyment and use from it.
Mr M was unhappy at the level of redress. He said that due to the stress of the events 
surrounding the faults with the caravan, and the holiday park operators handling of the 
matter, he hadnt been able to use the caravan as originally planned. He said it had also had 
a significant impact on his wifes health. 
Mr M said that if Black Horse had informed him of his rights, at the time he took out the 
agreement, he would have sought to reject the caravan much sooner than he had.
Mr M said that it would be fair for Black Horse to reimburse all of the payments he made for 
50% of the time he had had the caravan, and a proportion of the payments he had paid for 
the other 50%. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should be partially upheld. She said 
she agreed with Mr M that the redress offered by Black Horse hadnt been sufficient, but she 
disagreed that Mr M should be reimbursed the amount he had set out as being fair.
Our investigator said she agreed with Black Horse that the faults with caravan had mainly 
been cosmetic and wouldnt have affected the use of the caravan. And, that when 
considering refunding payments made under agreements, usage was something that had to 
be taken into account. But said she also accepted that there had been an impact on Mr M 
having to deal with the faulty caravan.
Our investigator said that Mr M had had to resend evidence he had already provided to show 
Black Horse that the faults found with the caravan by the independent engineer had been 
present at the point of sale. This had caused Mr M to have to pay an extra months payment 
under the agreement which was unfair. Black Horse should have properly reviewed all the 
information it had before deciding not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said this payment 
should be reimbursed. 
Our investigator said she couldnt reasonably say Black Horse had acted unfairly by not 
setting out Mr Ms consumer rights at the point of sale as there was no requirement or 
obligation for a finance provider to do so. The agreement had stated that it was regulated by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She said that this service wasnt a regulator and so it doesnt 
enforce changes in processes and procedures.
Our investigator said she thought Mr M should also receive a larger amount of 
compensation. Although Black Horse had only been made aware of Mr Ms complaint in July 
2019 it was accepted the caravan hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. And 
this had resulted in Mr M suffering stress when trying to resolve the matter with the holiday 
park operator. She said a total amount of £500 compensation would be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
In respect of the park fees our investigator said there was no evidence this amount had been 
included in the hire purchase agreement and so was a separate matter agreed with the holiday park operator. If Mr M was unhappy about the fees, he would need to complain 
separately to the holiday park operator as it wasnt something Black Horse was responsible 
for.
Black Horse agreed with our investigators view, but Mr M disagreed. He says it would be fair 
for Black Horse to refund a substantial proportion of his monthly payments due to the 
unreasonable length of time taken to resolve the faults. He disagrees that Black Horse cant 
be held liable for the actions of the holiday park operator. 
Mr M says that Black Horse should have taken a proactive approach to ensure the new 
purchase was free from defects prior to releasing a substantial sum of money. 
As the parties havent agreed the complaint was passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking  at this complaint  I need  to have  regard  to the relevant  law and regulations,  but I 
am not bound  by them  when  I consider  what  is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase  agreement  entered  into by Mr M Is a regulated  consumer  
credit  agreement  this service  is able to consider  complaints  relating  to it. Black  
Horse  is also the supplier  of the goods  under  this type of agreement,  and 
responsible  for a complaint  about  their quality.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  there  is an implied  term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory".  The relevant  law says  that the 
quality  of the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  person  
would  consider  satisfactory  taking  into account  any description  of the goods,  price  and 
all other  relevant  circumstances.
The relevant  law also says  that the quality  of the goods  includes  their general  state  
and condition,  and other  things  like their fitness  for purpose,  appearance  and finish,  
freedom  from minor  defects,  safety,  and durability  can be aspects  of the quality  of the 
goods.
Here,  the caravan  was new and so it was reasonable  to expect  it to have  been  
supplied  fault free. Black  Horse  has agreed  that, looking  at the evidence,  this was not 
the case  and so it was fair for Mr M to reject  the caravan  and for the agreement  to be 
unwound.  This means  that Mr Ms deposit  has been  reimbursed  with interest  and 
there  is nothing  further  to pay under  the agreement.
The issue  for me to decide  is whether,  in addition  to the agreement  being  cancelled,  it 
would  be fair for Mr M to be reimbursed  a substantial  amount  of the money  he has 
paid to Black  Horse  under  the agreement  by way of the monthly  payments.
Mr M says  that Black  Horse  is responsible  for the actions  of the holiday  park operator  
and that his enjoyment  of the caravan  was spoilt  due to the unreasonable  time it took 
to have  the caravan  repaired.  He says  this put him off using  the caravan  which  had 
been  acquired  for him and his wife to enjoy  some  peace  and stress-free  time together.I appreciate  the issues  with the caravan  took far too long to resolve  as Mr M was still 
raising  the dents,  guttering  and kitchen  drawers  two years  later.  I also appreciate  that 
had Mr M been  aware  of his rights  he would  have  complained  far earlier  than he did to 
Black  Horse.  However,  I cant  reasonably  say that Black  Horse  acted  unfairly  by not 
providing  Mr M with a copy  of his consumers  rights,  or by not being  more  proactive  in 
ensuring  the caravan  was supplied  fault free. This is because  there  is no obligation  on 
Black  Horse  to do so and, although  I can see how strongly  Mr M feels  about  what  
Black  Horse,  as a responsible  lender,  should  have  done,  again  there  is no 
requirement  for Black  Horse  to take the steps  Mr B has suggested  (for instance  
actively  check  and ensure  the consumer  is happy  with the goods  when  received).
As explained  by our investigator,  this service  isnt a regulator,  we dont  punish  
business  for bad service,  nor do we enforce  changes  in processes.  My role is to 
decide  what  would  be a fair and reasonable  outcome  for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M says  that had he been  made  aware  of his consumer  rights  he would  have  
rejected  the caravan  very soon  after hed acquired  it. However,  I think  its very difficult  
to know  what  would  or wouldnt  have  happened.  Ive seen  that the caravan  was a 
considered  purchase  by Mr M. It had been  carefully  thought  out and was to be used  
so Mr M and his wife could  enjoy  more  leisure  time together,  as they had been  
through  a difficult  personal  time.  So, its possible  if the faults  had been  fixed  in a 
reasonable  period  of time Mr M wouldnt  have  sought  to reject  the agreement.
Ive seen  that most  of the issues  with the caravan  were  repaired  but there  remained  
some  outstanding  issues  which  were  minor,  which  Mr M has also referred  to as 
snags  in one of his emails  to the holiday  park operator.  I cant  reasonably  say that 
the faults  would  have  interfered  with the caravan  being  used.  And,  as Ive seen  that 
Mr M attended  the holiday  park and stayed  in the caravan,  I also cant  say he didnt  
get use from it. So, while  I understand  the enjoyment  of using  the caravan  was spoilt  
by the lack of action  on the faults,  he was able to use it.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  if the final right to reject  goods  is exercised  by 
the consumer  then any refund  may be reduced  by a deduction  for use, to take 
account  of the use the consumer  has had of the goods  since  they were  delivered  
(section  24(8)).   Also,  under  the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974,  Black  Horse  are only 
liable  for the goods  not being  of satisfactory  quality  and the issues  that arise  because  
of this. And,  although  I am not bound  by legislation,  I do need  to take it into account.
Here,  I think  its fair and reasonable  for Mr M to pay for the usage  of the caravan.  He 
may not have  actually  used  it as often  as hed originally  planned  but the condition  of 
the caravan  didnt  prevent  him from doing  so. Ive seen  there  were  other  things  Mr M 
was unhappy  about  at the park,  such  as the fees and how the winter  shut down  was 
handled.  So, looking  at the evidence,  Im not asking  Black  Horse  to reimburse  the 
monthly  payments,  except  the one which  Mr M paid because  Black  Horse  didnt  fully 
consider  the evidence  it had about  his complaint  when  it initially  decided  not to uphold  
his complaint.
In regard  to Mr Ms complaint  about  the site fees I agree  with our investigator  that as 
these  fees werent  part of the financial  agreement,  I cant  reasonably  say Black  Horse  are liable  for the subsequent  change  that occurred  as to what  period  was covered.  If 
Mr M wishes  to complain  about  that he will need  to do so directly  with the holiday  park 
operator.
However,  I do appreciate  that over time the lack of having  the situation  remedied  
would  have  been  stressful  and upsetting  for Mr M. I think  a fairer  resolution  for this is 
by way of compensation.  I agree  with our investigator  that £150  compensation  was 
inadequate  in these  circumstances.  I am aware  this matter  also had an impact  on Mr 
Ms wife,  but I cant  take that into account  as she isnt a party  to the agreement.  I think  
a total amount  of £500  compensation  is fair to reflect  the impact  dealing  with the faulty  
caravan  has had on Mr M.
Putting things right
I appreciate  my decision  above  will be of disappointment  to Mr M but, for the reasons  
given,  Im partially  upholding  Mr Ms complaint.  Im asking  Black  Horse  to increase  the 
compensation  payable  to Mr M by £350  to make  a total payment  of £500.
My final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint and Im asking Black Horse 
Limited to pay Mr M an additional £350 to make a total payment of £500 as compensation 
for having to deal with the faults with the caravan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman