DRN-4412274
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited did after he made a claim on his 
Professional Indemnity and Legal Defence Insurance Policy.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr K contacted Amtrust to make a claim on the Legal Defence section of his 
policy. He said hed be attending a hearing about restoring him to his bodys professional 
register and wanted legal assistance. Amtrust turned down the claim. It said while the policy 
provided cover to defend legal rights in this case Mr K had requested the hearing so he 
could be restored to the register. It didnt think that was something his policy covered. 
Our investigator accepted Mr K might need to defend his position during the course of the 
hearing. But she agreed the policy only covered legal action which had been brought against 
the policyholder and a defence to that. That didnt apply here. So she thought Amtrust had 
acted correctly and fairly in turning down the claim. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said the policy provider cover to defend his legal rights when required 
to respond to an investigation and or an interview under caution with his professional body. 
And in this case he was represented by a barrister and solicitor who had defended his legal 
rights and hed taken part in an interview under oath. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy. The legal expenses section sets 
out a number of insured events but I think its agreed the only one that could be relevant 
here is Legal Defence. And cover within that section includes:
Costs to defend Your legal rights when required to respond to an investigation and/or an 
interview under caution with [relevant professional bodies] 
Costs in a Legal Action to defend Your legal rights arising out of a formal investigation or 
disciplinary hearing brought against You by any trade association or professional or 
regulatory body
The policy contains a definition of Legal Action of which the most relevant point here is the 
defence of investigations and/or interviews under caution.
In this case I understand Mr Ks professional body previously took action against him which 
resulted him in being removed from its professional register. That wasnt something Amtrust 
was involved with. The claim he made in August 2022 was for assistance with a hearing to 
decide if he should be restored to the register.  
I think its clear this is a process that had to be (and was) initiated by Mr K. Guidance 
produced by his professional body titled Restoration to the register: guidance for applicants 
and committees says Anyone who has been removed from the register by a fitness to 
practise committee and wants to be restored to the register must apply to the registrar. It 
also makes clear that an application for restoration is not an appeal against, or a review of, 
the original fitness to practise committee decision.
Given that I dont see this process could reasonably be regarded as arising out of a formal 
investigation or disciplinary hearing brought by any trade association or professional or 
regulatory body. And in any event it wasnt being brought against Mr K; hed initiated the 
restoration process so he was the one pursuing these proceedings. 
Nor do I think the restoration process could be classed as the defence of legal rights when 
required to respond to an investigation and /or an interview under caution. I appreciate as 
part of this process Mr K would need to show why he should be restored to the register. But 
again this was something hed initiated. So, even if his professional body did carry out some 
investigation as part of this, the underlying process was one hed started. And while Mr K 
says he was interviewed under oath thats different to be interviewed under caution which 
is what the policy actually covers.  
So for the reasons Ive explained I dont think Amtrust acted unreasonably or unfairly in 
concluding the claim Mr K wanted to make wasnt one his policy covered and turning it down 
on that basis. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023
 
James Park
Ombudsman