DRN-4246676
The complaint
Ms I has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited declined to pay a claim she made for 
unemployment on her mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
Ms I resigned from her job in October 2021. She says she had no other choice because of 
bullying and harassment by her employer. As such, she was pursuing a claim for 
constructive dismissal. The employment tribunal was due to take place in November 2022. 
In the meantime, she had found a new job that she started in February 2022.
The tribunal didnt go ahead as Ms I and her former employer reached a settlement via the 
Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (Acas) just prior to the hearing date.
Amtrust declined the claim on the basis that there had been no tribunal hearing resulting in a 
ruling in Ms Is favour. Therefore, it considered that she had resigned from her job and made 
herself voluntarily unemployed, which is not covered under the policy.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint. Ms I has provided some more information in response to my 
provisional decision that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms I has provided some further details of how she was treated by her old employer. She has 
also provided documentation about her case for unfair dismissal, including a summary of her 
claim and a supporting statement from a colleague, as well as some information about her 
health.
To reiterate what Id said in my provisional decision, the purpose isnt to make a finding on 
whether she was constructively dismissed or not. All I am looking at is whether Amtrust 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.
The policy terms state that an unemployment claim will not be paid if:
your unemployment is due to your resignation (other than to become a carer), voluntary 
redundancy or voluntary unemployment except where voluntary redundancy is claimed 
under section 146 or 148 of the 1996 Employment Rights Act.
Amtrusts position is that it would have likely accepted the claim if there was evidence that 
Ms I had been constructively dismissed. However, as the case didnt make it to tribunal, 
there was no finding in Ms Is favour to confirm that. 
Ive listened to a call between Ms I and Amtrust from October 2021. The adviser tells her that 
she would be able to make a claim but that it would need the outcome of the tribunal. He 
says: And it would have to find in your favour. So if you reach a settlement outside of court 
or if there is a settlement that doesnt overturn the original decision by your employers we 
wouldnt be able to pay.
Ms I has been sent a copy of this call to listen to. So, whilst she remembered the 
conversation differently, I presume she would now agree that Amtrust made it clear to her 
that she would need to complete the tribunal process and receive a favourable outcome in 
order to be able to make a successful claim.
As I said in my provisional decision, the information Id seen suggested that Ms I might have 
a strong case against her former employer. The additional evidence she has provided further 
supports that view. But that evidence would need to be tested by someone independent. I 
have no doubt that Ms I felt she had no option to resign. But that is not the same as proving 
that she was constructively dismissed.
The problem is that the nature of the evidence is all very one-sided as there is nothing to 
explain what the employers position was. Im not persuaded that the employer agreeing to 
settle was an admission that it had done something wrong. And of course, we cant see a 
copy of the confidential settlement agreement to see if they admitted any fault.
Ms I says that she had intended to go through with the tribunal but that, given her 
circumstances at the time, she thought that agreeing to the settlement offer was the best 
option. But that was a choice she made, having weighed up a number of factors such as 
how stressful it would be to go through with it and the financial consequences of losing. 
Amtrust had told her that reaching a settlement would affect her ability to claim, so that 
should potentially have also formed part of her thinking, although I appreciate she hadnt 
recalled being told that.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms I, but the additional information she has provide has not caused 
me to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. So whilst I have a lot of 
sympathy for her situation, Im still not persuaded that there is enough information for 
Amtrust to be able to conclude that she was constructively dismissed.
Overall, based on the available evidence, it was reasonable for Amtrust to look at the 
information it received at face value to conclude that Ms I resigned from her job. And as 
resignation is excluded under the policy terms, it was fair and reasonable for it to decline the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman