DRN-1442097
 
Complaint
Mrs A complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) hasnt paid a fair 
settlement for her claim, following the total loss of her car.  
Background 
Mrs A was in an accident that wasnt her fault in June 2019. Her insurer, UKI, deemed her 
car to be unroadworthy following the accident. So, it settled her claim as a total loss for 
£2,000.
UKI has explained that its settlement of Mrs As claim was based on the market value of her 
car. The amount it paid was the average market value, taken from three recognised motor 
industry trade guides, less a deduction for pre-existing wear and tear and the policy excess. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with this. She provided numerous adverts for similar cars being sold for 
more than the amount UKI paid her. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs As complaint. She thought UKI had paid a 
reasonable settlement for Mrs As car after considering the recognised industry guidelines, 
and the terms and conditions of Mrs As policy. She said our service doesnt typically rely on 
adverts to decide if a valuation is fair because prices are often inflated.
Mrs A didn't accept our investigator's opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My Findings 
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that the loss of Mrs As car will have been distressing. I can also understand 
Mrs As disappointment, as she believes that she hasnt received a fair valuation. But I 
should explain that my role is not to value Mrs As car. What I need to decide is whether UKI 
has settled her claim fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of her 
policy.
The terms and conditions of Mrs As policy explains that her car is insured on a market value 
basis. It states:
If your car is damaged, we will pay the cost of repairing or replacing your vehicle up to 
its UK market value. This is the current value of the vehicle at the time of the claim  
and it may be different to the amount you paid or any amounts we spoke about when 
you insured your vehicle with us. 
Market value is defined in the policy as: the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a 
similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.. 
UKI valued Mrs As car at £2,000. In reaching this value, UKI says it relied on three of the 
same recognised industry guides our service typically uses when assessing a fair market 
value. It says these valuations were:
Glasss - £2,520
Parkers - £2,020
Cazana - £2,103 to £2,239
The average of these figures was approximately £2,200. UKI paid that amount, less a 
deduction for the pre-existing condition of the car  specifically some heavy scuffs on the 
rear bumper, which the engineers report suggests were not accident related. 
Mrs A doesnt feel the approach taken by UKI is fair. She would like it to revise its valuation 
sources to ensure its offers are in line with current second-hand prices. But as our 
investigator explained, our service doesnt generally find second-hand car adverts 
persuasive when assessing market value. This is because they are what the seller would like 
to achieve and are often the starting point of a negotiation. 
Our services approach to assessing a fair market value takes into account what the motor 
trade guides say the market value is. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We 
find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional 
variations. Were confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market value of a 
vehicle.
Our investigator checked the valuations UKI carried out before she issued her assessment. I 
have also checked these and the figures returned are within range of the valuations UKI has 
quoted. So, I think the approach taken by UKI and the value reached are in line with the 
terms of the policy and are fair and reasonable.
It follows that I wont be asking UKI to increase the value it placed on Mrs As car. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mrs A's complaint about U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Adam Golding
Ombudsman