DRN-3298261
The complaint
Mr A complains about his bank Barclays Bank UK Plc. He says the bank did not do enough 
to protect him from the financial harm caused by a fraudulent investment company.
What happened
In 2016, Mr A met a broker online who persuaded him to invest into a company called SW1 
Options. He was provided with a dedicated account manager and from October 2016 to 
June 2017 made five payments totalling £41,000 to them.
Around 2019, Mr A was searching for information about SW1 Options and came across a 
warning from the Financial Conduct Authority about them and realised hed been scammed. 
Mr A contacted Barclays in May 2019 to report the scam and asked for assistance with 
recovering his payments. Barclays contacted the third-party bank about three payments to 
SW1 Options but the bank confirmed that no funds were left to return. Due to the length of 
time it took to deal with Mr As complaint, Barclays credited his account with £150 
compensation by way of an apology.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators upheld the complaint. He 
thought the transactions were unusual and good practice ought to have meant that Barclays 
provided Mr A with a warning which could have prevented the scam.
Barclays didnt agree. It highlighted the following points:
It couldnt have identified that SW1 Options were scammers as there was no adverse 
information available at the time of Mr As payments;
Mr A didnt use the account and so there was no normal pattern to his spend, he only 
started using the account for purely investment purposes and would fund the account 
just before each payment instruction in branch;
It took Mr A over three years to report any concerns;
Mr A has changed which transactions he is disputing;
Mr A originally claimed to be the victim of a scam, then the victim of fraud and 
alleged some transactions were made without his authority;
Mr A has not provided any explanation as to how the alleged scam/fraud occurred;
Mr As story has changed throughout
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
On 19 January 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept in this case that Mr A has been the victim of a scam and Im very sorry to hear of the 
impact this has had on him. My role here is to consider whether or not I think Barclays could 
have prevented the scam from happening, or couldve done more to recover Mr As money.
Could Barclays have done more to recover the loss?
Ive noted when Mr A reported the matter to Barclays in May 2019, he reported four 
transactions. When Barclays attempted to recover Mr As payments from the third party 
bank, it only raised three claims. The third-party bank confirmed that no funds remained in 
the account.
Ive seen that the notes suggest that Mr A didnt dispute all payments to SW1 Options with 
Barclays when he first reported the scam. But the notes also show that Barclays didnt 
attempt to recover all of the payments that Mr A had disputed.
I dont think Barclays failure makes a material difference to its likelihood of being able to 
recover Mr As payments. Mr A didnt report the scam until over two years had passed. In the 
majority of cases, the funds are moved on in a very short space of time, so I think its unlikely 
that any funds would have been available had Barclays attempted to recover all of Mr As 
disputed payments. It follows that I dont think that Barclays could have done more to 
recover Mr As losses.
Could Barclays have done more to prevent the losses?
Despite Mr A suggesting that some of the payments were unauthorised, there is no 
evidence to suggest this was the case. It would appear Mr A accepted he authorised the 
payments when he first disputed the transactions with Barclays and he later changed his 
account to suggest the payments were unauthorised. The payments were made in a 
Barclays branch and Im satisfied Mr A authorised these payments even though he was the 
victim of a scam and was carrying them out under the scammers instruction. He made the 
payments himself under the Payment Services Regulations 2009, and the terms and 
conditions of his account. So Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I have to 
illustrate that guidance and good practice has changed over the years. As such I think 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mr A has written to us detailing the various regulations and guidance he feels should be 
taken into account and I want to reassure him Ive read his comments and taken into 
account the relevant rules and guidance when considering the business obligations outlined 
above.
Ive considered here whether I think any of the branch payments made to SW1 Options were 
so unusual, suspicious or out of character that I Barclays ought to have intervened and 
carried out further checks.Barclays has to strike a balance between taking steps to prevent fraud and unreasonably 
interfering with an individuals account to the extent it delays or prevents legitimate 
payments. I wouldnt expect it to check every transaction or carry out further checks every 
time a transaction is slightly higher than usual.
Ive noted that Mr A hasnt gone into much detail about his agreement with SW1 Options, 
despite our investigator asking questions about this. So Ive concluded, based on the 
evidence available to me that any warning from Barclays would have made no difference to 
Mr As decision to invest with SW1 Options.
To be clear, I dont think the initial payments to SW1 Options as listed below were all that 
unusual:
£1,000 to SW1 Options on 14 October 2016 and
£3,500 to SW1 Options on 27 October 2016
These payments were made to the same payee, werent particularly large and there was 
almost two weeks between them. I dont think Barclays ought to have been prompted to ask 
further questions before processing either of them.
Mr A made a payment of £27,137.70 on 1 December 2016 to SW1 Options. I do think this 
particular payment was larger than the payments that Mr A had made in the months leading 
up to it. As Mr A had an interaction with the branch staff, I think Barclays had an opportunity 
to have asked some discreet questions about the payment to satisfy itself that all was well. 
But I dont think this would have led Mr A to doing anything differently and Ill explain why. Mr 
A provided some further information to this service, which Ill summarise here:
Mr A told our investigator in October 2020 that he didnt have much paperwork from 
SW1 Options, only a few emails and he was promised profits if he was to put more 
money onto the investment.
In December 2020, Mr A advised our investigator that he only authorised one 
payment of £6,000 to SW1 Options in January 2017 for the purposes of a tax 
payment and the other payments were taken without his consent.
In February 2021, Mr A advised our investigator that the scammers presented 
themselves as legitimate registered and regulated. He says he was approached with 
a lot of legitimate paperwork, copies of successful statements, guarantees and 
agreements.
I agree with Barclays concerns that Mr As testimony has been inconsistent and it still 
is unclear what Mr A was specifically promised and what his arrangement with SW1 
Options was. This is despite multiple questions from our investigator trying to obtain 
this information. So even if I were to agree that Barclays ought to have asked some 
discreet questions at the time of Mr As payment of 1 December 2016 (which I 
believe was authorised), I think he would have told it that he was making an 
investment with a company hes previously invested with and was satisfied it was 
legitimate. There was no adverse information about SW1 Options at the time of Mr 
As payments to them. And there isnt anything in Mr As testimony to us that should 
suggest that Barclays ought to have been on higher alert because of the type of 
investment Mr A was making and thats because Mr A hasnt been clear about what 
that was.
I think if Barclays had asked further questions in December 2016, it would have satisfied 
itself that all was well and that Mr A was investing with a company he has an existing 
relationship with. Ive also noted that Mr A only appeared to have increased his spend on this account for the purposes of making investments and there was no prior normal pattern 
to his account spend to have caused Barclays any other concern.
Overall, I think the amounts Mr A was paying were within what a person might reasonably 
spend from time to time for the purposes of investments. And individuals can, and do, make 
multiple payments to the same company sometimes, for example when theyre gambling or 
investing. Mr A also didnt report the scam to Barclays until 2019 and appears to have 
accepted that he lost money to what he believed to be a genuine investment opportunity. Ive 
noted he told Barclays that he reported the matter to it in 2017 but Ive seen no evidence of 
this. Overall, even if Barclays had questioned Mr As payment of 1 December 2016 to SW1 
Options, I dont think it would have been concerned with Mr As response, nor do I think it 
had cause to provide him with any meaningful scam warning.
I also dont think any of the remaining payments ought to have appeared unusual to 
Barclays. By the time the subsequent payments were made, it wasnt unusual for payments 
of the remaining amounts (£6,000 and £2,000) to have been paid from Mr As account.
Im very sorry to have heard about whats happened to Mr A and the impact this situation 
has had on him. But I dont think Barclays missed an opportunity to prevent the payments he 
made to scammers, so I dont intend to ask it to reimburse him for his loss.
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision and I assume has nothing further to add. 
Mr A did provide a full response. He didnt agree with my provisional decision and explained 
why. He said in summary:
The scammers approached him with care and reassurances, with a lot of legitimate 
paperwork, guarantees, agreements etc. They did so to lure him in to use illegal high-
pressure sales tactics, and margin calls afterward.
He was deceived and suffered emotional harm over the last two years and a total 
loss of £41,000 through Barclays. This money was saved over many years of hard 
work and plans were to use it to support his retirement in a few years time. 
Barclays could have foreseen the fraud as a responsible financial institution. 
Barclays were required by law to exercise the care and skill of a diligent, prudent 
banker and not turn a blind eye to him being scammed.
There are various laws and good industry practice that set out the standards for the 
bank to have followed and it didnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr A that I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time of his payments. Some of the guidance Mr A quoted in his response was 
not in effect at the time he made his payments to SW1 Options. But nevertheless, I agree 
that his payment of £27,137.70 on 1 December 2016 ought to have prompted questions from 
Barclays to ensure that all was well. 
But I dont believe further questions or even a general warning about investment scams from 
Barclays would have made a difference to Mr As decision to pay them. There was no 
credible adverse information about SW1 Options a while after Mr A made all of his 
payments. By Mr As own testimony, he was approached with care and due diligence by the scammers. They persuaded him with a lot of legitimate paperwork, guarantees and 
agreements. But Mr As account of events with Barclays and this service has been 
inconsistent and I have to base my decision on what Mr A would likely have done had 
Barclays given him a warning on the balance of probabilities. 
I think if Barclays had asked Mr A questions about his payment, he would have explained 
that hes carried out his own due diligence checks and assured himself it was a legitimate 
investment opportunity. Barclays also would have seen that he had previously used his 
account for the purposes of investment payments. So I think Barclays would have been 
satisfied with Mr As explanation and not been concerned that he was at risk of financial 
harm. 
I cant ignore that Mr A didnt report this matter to Barclays until 2019 and seems to have 
accepted that he lost money to a genuine investment. So it follows that even though I do 
think Barclays should have intervened on 1 December 2016, Im not persuaded a warning 
from Barclays would have dissuaded him or caused him to act differently. 
In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from Barclays probably would have made no 
difference to Mr A. Any failings by Barclays were not the dominant, effective cause of his 
losses; they were just part of the background history or occasion that led up to them. 
So for all the reasons I set out here and in my provisional decision above, I dont think 
Barclays were the primary cause of Mr As loss and as a result, I dont think they should 
reimburse his loss. Indeed, I have already concluded that he was responsible for his own 
investment decisions, and that such choices were the proximate cause of his losses.   
My final decision
My final decision is that despite my natural sympathies for Mr As loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman