DRN-4366636
The complaint
Ms A complains about Next Retail Limiteds refusal to recredit the value of a purchase she 
made, as well as an associated investigation charge, using her running account credit 
facility.
What happened
Ms A used her running account credit account to both purchase and finance a pair of 
sandals in May 2023 for £44.00. She says that she subsequently returned the goods at a 
retail store using a returns locker. 
Next subsequently told Ms A that it had received a box without the goods inside. It reapplied 
the cost of the purchase as well as a £35 investigation fee. It also blocked her account and 
said it would be closed when the balance is repaid. 
Ms A didnt think that was fair. She raised a complaint with Next about it and also said that 
shed been told the charge would be waived. 
Next said that it had checked the stores locker for the goods and reviewed the CCTV 
footage of the return, but it maintained it had received an empty package. It also reiterated 
that the account was blocked and would be closed when any balances were repaid. 
Ms A referred the matter to this service. In the meantime, Next accepted that it had given Ms 
A the impression the fee would be removed. It offered to pay Ms A £20 compensation by 
way of an apology for the poor service. 
Our investigator said that Ms As dispute about goods being returned and whether she ought 
to pay for them was a complaint about a retail activity carried on by Next. They didnt think 
we had the power to look into that matter. 
They said we could consider how Next had handled Ms As credit agreement though. 
Specifically, they found that Next had acted in line with its agreement with Ms A by deciding 
to block and subsequently close the account. They accepted that the agreement allowed 
Next to charge a £35 investigation fee, but didnt think that Next had applied the fee fairly 
taking into account what had happened and the level of evidence provided. 
Next disagreed. It said it had carried out a thorough investigation into what had happened 
and maintained the £35 fee had been applied correctly. Ms A agreed with our investigators 
conclusions.
The case was passed to me to make a final decision on it. Before issuing this decision I 
shared some initial impressions with Next  broadly that it had provided very little by way of 
evidence relating to its investigation into what had happened. 
In response, it provided pictures of the empty box it said it had received.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about whether or not Next is acting fairly in relation to running a credit 
account regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its a regulated agreement and one 
which this service has the power to consider a complaint about. That is, so far as the 
complaint arises from Next carrying on an activity specified under our rules. 
Broadly speaking, our rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook) say that we can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction 
as long as the complaint is about a regulated activity, or other specified. 
Next is covered by this services jurisdiction, but it has acted in two different capacities in 
dealing with Ms A. Theres an important distinction to be made here, and its relevant to 
whether or not the complaint relates to an activity we can consider.
When it sold goods to Ms A Next was acting as a retailer. It was also acting as a retailer in 
deciding whether or not to accept the subsequent return of the goods. In raising the issue 
about whether or not Next ought to have accepted that Ms A returned the goods, Ms A has 
relied on rights she might have had against Next as a retailer. So, the issue Ms A raises 
about whether or not Next received the goods she says she returned relate to Nexts role as 
a retailer. This service does not have the power to consider a complaint about Nexts 
activities as a retailer. So, I make no finding on this point.
Ms As agreement set out that Next would provide lending for certain purchases and also the 
terms on which she would be required to repay that lending. It doesnt say that Ms A need 
not repay the lending in the event of a dispute about the provision or return of the goods. 
And its clear theres a dispute about whether or not the goods were returned. 
So, taking that into account, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Next has not acted fairly by 
asking Ms A to repay the lending it provided for the goods she purchased. That being said, 
the term which Next relies on in applying a £35 investigation charge is in Ms As credit 
agreement. So, I can say whether its been applied fairly. 
The particular term says; 
If you return or attempt to return, substitute or alternative items when using our returns 
facility for any item an investigation charge of £35 will be added to the balance owing on 
your account. 
In determining whether or not this term applies, Id expect Next to have robust and reliable 
evidence to justify its application. I think its unlikely in cases like this that either party would 
be able to definitively show whether the goods were or werent in the box that was returned.  
So, when the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, as it is here, Ive made 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In support of the application of the fee Next has provided pictures of an empty cardboard box 
as well as a CCTV clip which it says shows Ms A putting a box into its returns locker. Its 
also said that it checked the returns locker in case the goods had fallen out of the packaging.
Ive carefully considered what I think this evidence shows. I dont think the CCTV footage is 
clear enough to show what was returned. Im aware that Next contends it shows a flat cardboard box being returned, but Im not persuaded thats the case. From the footage it 
looks to me that a box of some kind was placed in the returns locker. But thats as much as I 
think one can reasonably discern from the footage. 
Next has also provided a picture of an empty box. As above, I appreciate that its challenging 
to demonstrate an absence of something, or in this case, to show that the goods werent in 
the box Ms A returned at the outset. Nonetheless, Id expect Next to demonstrate that its 
investigated possible explanations for whats happened here.
I might have expected Next to offer a detailed account of what was received and its 
condition, to show whether its possible the boxs contents couldve escaped or couldve 
been accessed during the returns process. I might also have expected Next to provide 
tracking information as well as comments from couriers or the warehouse which received the 
package and identified the contents were missing. Next says its carried out a thorough 
investigation into whats happened, but I dont think its provided sufficient evidence of that. 
I think its therefore fair to say theres likely evidence which couldve been relied on to 
reasonably determine the likelihood of whether the goods were returned and therefore 
whether this charge is justified. As that evidence hasnt been captured and/ or provided by 
Next, I dont think I can fairly say, on balance, that the charge has been applied fairly. As a 
result, I require Next to remove it and rework Miss As account as though it hadnt been 
applied. Additionally, I also think Next should pay Ms A the £20 compensation it offered her 
for misinformation given. 
Lastly, I agree with what our investigator said on Nexts decision to block Ms As account. 
The agreement allows Next to block the account and terminate the agreement. Whilst I 
understand that Ms A might be frustrated by Nexts decision to do this, I dont find that Next 
has treated Ms A unfairly in this respect.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I require Next Retail Limited to 
rework Ms As account as though the £35 charge had not been applied, and to pay her £20 
compensation if it has not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman