DRN-2818710
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about their mortgage with Santander UK Plc. They have reached the 
end of their interest only term and have concerns about repaying the capital. They say that 
that they werent aware they had an interest only mortgage until relatively recently. And they 
wanted the terms of the two sub-accounts which have reached the end of the term to be 
aligned with the third sub-account which has eight years remaining.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took their mortgage out around 25 years ago. They say they took out an 
endowment mortgage, but that at some point Santanders predecessor wrote to them to say 
the endowment was no longer needed and the mortgage was now on part and part. 
Mr and Mrs B took further borrowing in 2006 to repay other debts. Their mortgage then had 
three sub-accounts on different terms:
Sub-account 1 and 2, taken out for 22 years ending in 2016;
Sub-account 3  taken out for 18 years, ending in 2024.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs B wrote to Santander to ask about the position with their mortgage. It 
confirmed the remaining term on sub-account 3.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs B complained. They said they had asked in 2016 for sub-accounts 1 
and 2 to be extended to match sub-account 3, but this hadnt happened  despite previously 
being told they could change the term. They said they had asked for an endowment 
mortgage, had been told they had moved to part and part, so didnt understand how they 
had ended up on interest only. And they said they had been refused a new interest rate, and 
had been stuck on the standard variable rate (SVR) since 2013. They also complain that 
theyve spoken to many people but Santander hasnt helped them. And sub-account 3 was 
mis-sold, they say, because it wasnt appropriate to lend them more money on interest only 
to clear debts  and Santander didnt check they could afford the further borrowing.
Mr and Mrs B say that they had significant debt problems at the time of the 2006 application. 
They applied for further borrowing to consolidate their debts as a long shot. The extra 
borrowing took up all the equity in their property. In around 2013 Mr B took early retirement 
on health grounds, which led to some further financial difficulties and the mortgage fell into 
arrears for a time.
Just before this, Santander had made mistakes in collecting their direct debit  which meant 
their mortgage went unpaid. Santander had put this right at the time, but Mr and Mrs B said 
they thought this meant that they were prevented from taking a new interest rate when their 
old one expired after 2011, and this in turn made their financial difficulties from 2013 
onwards more difficult through having to pay the higher SVR. 
Santander said the complaint was out of time. I issued a jurisdiction decision, in which I said 
we could consider the sale of sub-account 3 in 2006, and could consider the interest 
charged to the mortgage, but only since March 2013. We couldnt consider how the 
mortgage was originally set up.
Following that, the complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He recommended 
it be upheld. He said Santander should extend the terms of sub-accounts 1 and 2 to match 
that of sub-account 3, ending in 2024. And he said Santander should re-work Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage as if they had been on an interest rate product rather than SVR from 2016. But he 
didnt think sub-account 3 was mis-sold in 2006.
Santander agreed to align the terms of the three accounts. But it didnt agree to the interest 
rate product. It said Mr and Mrs B werent eligible for a new interest rate in 2016. But it said it 
would put their mortgage on the follow on rate  a lower reversionary rate than the SVR  
since 2018.
As no agreement could be reached about how to fairly resolve the complaint, it comes back 
to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied sub-account 3 wasnt mis-sold in 2006. The sale was on a non-advised basis, 
which means that Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs B any advice  it was only required to 
give them clear information so they could make up their own minds. Its clear from the 
evidence of the time that Mr and Mrs B had significant other debts  of approaching £50,000, 
with the borrowing being £60,000  and the purpose of the loan application was to pay them 
off.
It was Mr and Mrs Bs decision to apply for this borrowing. Its likely to have been more 
expensive, in terms of overall interest charged, than the personal loan they consolidated. 
Though the same might not be true of the £30,000 credit cards  that would depend on the 
interest rates on the cards and how much Mr and Mrs B were paying each month. However, 
it seems their priority was not to save interest in the long term, but to reduce their short-term 
outgoings each month, and this borrowing did that. The repayments appeared affordable on 
the basis of Mr and Mrs Bs income at the time (though this changed later, that couldnt have 
been known at the time). And Mr and Mrs B told Santander they intended to take out an 
investment product to cover the capital balance due at the end of the term.
I can understand why, more than ten years on, Mr and Mrs B now question the wisdom of 
consolidating their debts in this way. But it was their decision to make  without advice from 
Santander  at the time. And Im satisfied Santander did what it was required to do to make 
sure Mr and Mrs B could afford the repayments and had a plan to repay the capital. I dont 
therefore think this sub-account was mis-sold.
By 2013, Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances had changed. Their fixed rates had expired in 2011. 
There had been the issue with the direct debit in the meantime  which, as I explained in my 
previous decision, I cant consider here.
By March 2013, the point at which I can start to look at what happened, Mr and Mrs B were 
on the standard variable rate (SVR) on all three sub-accounts. At the time, there was no 
obligation on a lender to invite a borrower to apply for new interest rates. Santander 
explained how to do so, if Mr and Mrs B wanted to, on the annual statements. But it was for 
Mr and Mrs B to make the application. Theres no evidence that they did so before 2016. 
And even if they had applied, there were times during this period when they wouldnt have 
been eligible for a new rate because of arrears. I dont think theres evidence that Santander 
treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly over this time.By 2016, the terms of sub-accounts 1 and 2 were coming to an end. Mr B said he 
remembered being told when he took sub-account 3 out that accounts 1 and 2 would be able 
to be extended to match. But by 2016 this was not something Santander was willing to 
consider. But it said that if the arrears were cleared it would look at whether those two sub-
accounts could be converted to repayment terms. 
Mr and Mrs B cleared the arrears by the end of May 2016. They then applied for a term 
extension, and a new interest rate. Santander considered whether to convert to repayment 
terms, but the application didnt go ahead because Mrs B was on sick leave, on a reduced 
salary, at the time. 
I think it would have been reasonable for Santander to have considered simply aligning the 
terms of all three sub-accounts, so that all finished at the same time as sub-account 3 in 
2024. 
Although no application was completed, it does seem likely that at that time it wouldnt have 
been affordable for Mr and Mrs B to convert the expired sub-accounts to repayment terms. 
They had only recently come out of arrears and Mrs B wasnt working. 
And if that wasnt possible, the only alternative to extending the sub-accounts on interest 
only terms was to insist on their repayment at that time. Mr and Mrs B had no means of 
doing that, other than selling their property. That would have left them with little or no equity. 
And while the first two sub-accounts had expired, the third still had eight years left to run. So 
Santander would be taking action to force the repayment of a mortgage that hadnt fully 
expired. In 2006, when it lent sub-account 3, Santander was prepared for this mortgage to 
continue until 2024. I dont think it would have been unreasonable to have allowed that to 
happen by extending sub-accounts 1 and 2.
Santander would have been able to do so using the exceptions in the rules of mortgage 
regulation which allow a change to an existing mortgage  even where a full affordability or 
interest only repayment strategy assessment isnt passed  where doing so is otherwise in 
the borrowers best interests. 
Mr and Mrs B werent able to repay in 2016. But they have a plan to do so by 2024. Theyve 
been making overpayments since later in 2016  recently of £650 per month  and have 
reduced the capital balance substantially since 2016. By 2024, Mr B will be able to access a 
further lump sum from his pension, and theyve said they will consider taking equity release 
to repay any outstanding balance.
Im satisfied that if Santander had thought about this in 2016, it would have fairly concluded 
that converting to repayment wasnt possible, and of the remaining choices  repossession 
or extending to match sub-account 3  a term extension was the fairer option, and in Mr and 
Mrs Bs best interests. So thats what I think it should do now.
Santander said it couldnt re-work Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage as if theyd taken a new interest 
rate from 2016 because they werent eligible for one  because sub-accounts 1 and 2 had 
expired. But if it was fair for those sub-accounts to be extended to 2024, and if Santander 
had done that in 2016, then that objection falls away. Had the term been extended, Mr and 
Mrs B wouldnt have been ineligible for a rate on that basis.  
Putting things right
I think Santander should fairly have offered Mr and Mrs B a rate in 2016, having aligned the 
terms. And so it should re-work their mortgage as if it had done so.Santander has said that in early 2018 the loan to value was around 82%, and its unlikely to 
have been significantly different in mid-2016. Mr and Mrs B have been making 
overpayments, and intend to do so into the future. Santanders fixed rates have early 
repayment charges (ERCs), limiting overpayments  but it offers tracker rates which dont 
have an ERC.
Santander should therefore re-work Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage as if they had taken a two 
year tracker rate in June 2016  it should select the best tracker rate available at the time for 
a loan to value of 82%. And when that rate would have expired in 2018, it should then re-
work the mortgage as if Mr and Mrs B had taken the better of the best available tracker rate 
for a loan to value of 82%, or the follow on rate.
That takes the mortgage to 2020. Santander should then re-calculate the loan to value 
based on the overpayments made to then, and again re-work the mortgage based on either 
the best available tracker rate or the follow on rate. Finally, it should give Mr and Mrs B the 
option of selecting a new rate for the mortgage moving forward, subject to Santanders 
standard eligibility criteria.
Im satisfied that the failure to align the terms and offer Mr and Mrs B a new rate in 2016 has 
caused them trouble and upset, and worry about what would happen to their home. I agree 
that Santander should pay them £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Extend the term of sub-accounts 1 and 2 to match the term of sub-account 3;
Re-work the mortgage so that it is as if Mr and Mrs B had taken the following interest 
rates:
oThe best available tracker rate for a loan to value of 82% from June 2016 to 
June 2018;
oThe lower of the best available tracker rate for a loan to value of 82%, or the 
follow on rate, from June 2018 to June 2020;
oThe lower of the best available tracker rate for the loan to value as it was in 
June 2020 or the follow on rate, from June 2020 to June 2021;
Give Mr and Mrs B the option of using the overpayments that result to reduce their 
mortgage balance further month by month, or having the overpayments refunded to 
them adding simple annual interest of 8% running from the date of each 
overpayment to date of settlement;
Allow Mr and Mrs B to select a new rate from its current range for their current loan to 
value and other eligibility criteria, and apply it to their mortgage from 1 July 2021 
onwards; and
Pay Mr and Mrs B £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman