DRN-2885763
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about Bank of Scotland plc paying the redress due to her for PPI 
being mis-sold to her on her credit card account to a joint account to which she had no 
access.
What happened
Mrs D complained to BOS about PPI being mis-sold to her. On 16 March 2020 BOS agreed 
that PPI had been mis-sold on her credit card account ending number 7344. It offered 
redress of £1,065.87 and in its letter said the payment would be made within 28 days either 
by cheque through the post or direct payment into her bank account.  
Mrs D tried to contact BOS on the phone number given in the letter as she wanted the 
payment sent to her by cheque but she wasnt successful. She then wrote to BOS on         
31 March, 24 April and 27 May 2020. 
In the meantime, the redress was paid into a joint account which Mrs D says she had no 
access to. She shared it with her ex-partner. Her ex-partner didnt realise and spent the 
money but wasnt at the time in the position to repay Mrs D. 
Our adjudicator thought that what BOS had done by paying the redress into the joint account 
was fair and reasonable. He thought it was understandable that Mrs Ds calls were 
unsuccessful as they were made at the beginning of the the outbreak of COVID-19 and 
BOSs offices werent  fully attended. But he thought that BOS should have communicated 
with Mrs D more quickly than it did when considering the letters she had written. He thought 
BOS should make a payment of £150 to Mrs D in recognition of this. 
Mrs D wasnt satisfied. She didnt agree BOS should have paid the money to a joint account 
when the credit card was in her sole name. Her ex-partner had no right to know about her 
personal business She hadnt given BOS authority to do this and BOS had other options  it 
could have issued a cheque or reviewed its system to see whether she had an account in 
her sole name. 
Mrs D confirmed to us that her ex-partner had repaid the money to her but she was still 
unhappy with BOSs actions. As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to 
me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOSs payment of compensation to Mrs Ds joint account
BOS has said that in the absence of any customer payment preference its practice was to 
pay compensation into a suitable single account but that Mrs Ds sole account was inactive. 
Its given us evidence to show the sole account was inactive. Its next step would be to pay 
into a suitable joint account which is what it did do. 
While I appreciate Mrs D was trying to make contact with BOS about how the payment 
should be made to her, it wasnt aware at that time of her payment preference so it defaulted 
to its usual practice and paid it to the account of which she was a joint account holder. 
Im satisfied that there was no reason for BOS to think that Mrs D could not access the joint 
account. She was a joint account holder. I would have expected Mrs D and her ex-partner to 
have let BOS know she should be removed from that account with her now ex-partner.
In the absence of any active sole account and not being aware of Mrs D payment preference 
I dont think it was unreasonable for BOS to have credited the joint account. There was 
nothing to show that Mrs D couldnt access the account. 
BOSs communication with Mrs D
Mrs D has said that she tried to phone BOS after receipt of its final response letter of          
16 March 2020. She couldnt get through and the calls would then be terminated. I agree 
with the adjudicator that it is understandable why Mrs Ds calls werent dealt with at the time. 
It was at the beginning of the COVID-19 outbreak and I dont find it unreasonable BOSs 
offices werent fully operational and arrangements for calls to be fully answered hadnt yet 
been made. 
Mrs D wrote to BOS on several occasions to say payment hadnt been received and she 
wanted it to be made by cheque. BOS has said that in a final response letter it would usually 
make clear how payment was going to be made and acknowleged that this error would have 
caused confusion. And it was only in August 2020 that Mrs Ds ex-partner confirmed to her 
that the money had been received in the joint account that he transacted from. Mrs D said 
she never used that account. 
I am pleased for Mrs D that she had now received the money she is owed. But I am of the 
opinion that it wasnt unreasonable for BOS to have paid the compensation into the joint 
account  BOS had no reason not to. However, I do recognise that BOS could have 
communicated with Mrs D in a more accurate and timely manner. Mrs D was left in the 
position where she didnt know if the money had been paid for several months. I think £150 
is fair and a reasonable reflection for the poor communication. 
Putting things right
As Ive said above, I think BOSs offer of £150 is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint about Bank of Scotland Plcs 
actions in paying her compensation to her joint account. It is for Mrs D now to decide 
whether to accept the offer of £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman