DRN-4099470
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the advice she received, the costs involved in switching her 
investments and the level of risk her portfolio had been exposed to by Nexus Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited (Nexus). She would like to be financially compensated for this.
Mrs S is represented by a relative, Mr P, I will be referring to both in my final decision.
What happened
Mrs S held her portfolio with (the predecessor of) Nexus since 1997. She held a whole of life 
plan, an Investment Bond and two ISAs in collective investments valued at a total of 
£140,000. 
Mrs S signed her client agreement with Nexus in February 2021 after it took over the 
preceding business. It carried out an annual review that year. It suggested the ISA funds 
held no longer matched Mrs Ss attitude to risk and recommended that she take advantage 
of its internal discretionary fund management service. Mrs S agreed to this but says she 
wasnt aware this would incur the initial charges that it did. 
In 2021 Mrs S complained to Nexus about this and that the new portfolio had performed 
badly compared to her previous investments. As a minimum Mrs S would like for the initial 
charges to be reimbursed as well as the increased ongoing charges which had risen from 
1.82% per annum to 2.54%. She questioned the lost returns due to the poor performance 
and the level of risk she was exposed to prior to the amendments being made.
In its response Nexus said said;
It had taken particular care of Mrs S when giving advice, taking account of her age, 
and didnt have any concerns about her understanding of what was discussed.
The ongoing fee enabled Nexus to provide an ongoing robust review service and an 
annual adviser meeting. Its charges were comparable with the industry.
It accepted it did not give enough detail about the Investment bond, but Mrs S hadnt 
been disadvantaged by this.
It gave a breakdown of the initial charges incurred which amounted to £2,340.00.
The discretionary investment model matched Mrs Ss investment objectives, 
particularly during the then recent market volatility.
It had negotiated a reduction in the platform fees that Mrs S would benefit from. 
It was satisfied with the level of risk Mrs S was exposed to.
It didnt uphold the complaint but offered £1,000 as a gesture of goodwill.
Not satisfied with the outcome, Mrs S brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint reviewed Mrs Ss investments from the 
earliest point advice was given by the predecessor of Nexus  2014  and thought it should 
be upheld. He said;
He didnt think that Nexus had acted fairly by not changing Mrs Ss portfolio in line 
with her attitude to risk as identified back in 2014. 
She was over exposed to equities until 2021 when the portfolio was amended to 75% 
in fixed interest and 25% in equities  compared to 60% fixed interest and 40% 
equities previously held. 
He didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Mrs S to have paid the charges she did 
as that only brought Mrs Ss attitude to risk in line with how it had been identified in 
2014. 
To put the matter right the investigator concluded the performance of Mrs Ss 
portfolio should be compared half to the FTSE UK Private Investors Return Index and 
half to the average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
The advice costs and charges should be refunded with 8% interest added from 2014 
to 2021. 
Nexus agreed with the investigator, but its calculations showed that Mrs S was actually 
better off by over £10,000 because of its error and its charges were included within that. So, 
nothing was payable to Mrs S. It was still willing to offer the goodwill payment of £1,000. 
Mr P initially agreed with the outcome but with the exception that the charges should be 
repaid to Mrs S. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file and agree with the outcome that was reached by the investigator and 
broadly for the same reasons.  Ill explain why.
Nexus has said it was only responsible for the first point of advice given by its predecessor 
business which was in October 2014 as recorded in the fact find from the time. It didnt 
provide the original advice for the investment in 1997/2002. It was upon takeover of the 
previous business that Nexus carried out due diligence and made contact with its clients. 
As mentioned already, Mrs S completed a fact find in October 2014. In that document she 
recorded that she wanted mostly growth from her investments and that she was a lower 
risk investor expecting modest growth. 
The investigator found that Nexus hadnt acted fairly by not changing Mrs Ss portfolio in line 
with her attitude to risk of lower from 2014 to 2021. That has been accepted by the parties 
and I make no further finding on this. 
However, in putting the matter right, Nexus has calculated that Mrs S hasnt suffered a 
financial loss because of the businesss error. She had instead been financially advantaged 
by it, so nothing was owed to Mrs S, but Nexus was willing to stand by its goodwill gesture of 
£1,000.
Nexus has explained that any fees Mrs S incurred have been included in the performance 
calculations it has provided. But Mr P isnt satisfied that Mrs S hasnt had the initial fee 
returned to her.He has said that Mrs S had always paid ongoing fees throughout her relationship with Nexus 
and these fees were designed as a retainer to cover the costs of future advice. The only 
reason that Mrs S had paid additional initial charges was because of the switch to the 
change of platform provider to Nexus own platform. Mr P considers that switch was 
unnecessary. And in any event, Mrs S hadnt been receiving the service levels she should 
have, and those fees were paid inappropriately.
Mr P has also expressed his concerns about the unbiased nature of Nexus advice when 
recommending its own in-house discretionary service. Mrs S had never had or needed such 
a product and Nexus didnt consider fund switching within the existing platforms. 
Nexus acknowledged that Mrs S should be exposed to a lower level of risk in its Investment 
Recommendations on 22 February 2021 when it suggested to Mrs S that she transfer her 
existing Aegon and Fidelity ISA to a new ISA on its Nucleus platform. This was to allow you 
to consolidate your investments on a single platform, making any administration easier and 
allowing you to benefit from an investment portfolio in line with your agreed attitude to risk. It 
was noted that Mrs S should be aware that one of the possible disadvantages was that 
initial costs [would be] incurred to implement the recommendations, but I also note that the 
portfolio being recommended was 0.9% and 0.11% cheaper than her existing portfolios. 
Mrs S agreed to the advice she was recommended. Mr P is concerned that Nexus made the 
recommendation to transfer to its platform to suit its own purpose. He said Mrs S had no 
need for this. Mrs S paid for this initial advice and Mr P thinks this should be returned to her. 
Mrs S was effectively paying for advice to put Nexus error right. 
But I dont agree. I say this because Nexus was offering Mrs S a different service. It was 
offering to take her ISA onto its discretionary fund managed platform and manage the 
investments for her. Im satisfied that Nexus was entitled to recommend that Mrs S take 
advantage of its discretionary fund management service, and that it explained that clearly to 
Mrs S and the before and after costs plus the initial cost. 
The Investment Recommendations documents has a section entitled investment strategy for 
your investments which outlined the difference between advisory management and 
discretionary fund management services. The comment From our discussions and based on 
your objectives and your agreed attitudes to risk, I feel that your money should be invested 
on a Discretionary basis suggests to me that both options were discussed and the 
discretionary portfolio was considered the more appropriate for Mrs S. 
The report also explained how the discretionary management would work and the 
recommended Nexus 2  MPS Portfolio;
The aim of the portfolio is to generate capital growth over a five year rolling period 
with low levels of volatility. It is a multi-asset portfolio which can invest in open and 
closed ended funds, across the whole market and will include exposure to equities, 
properties and bonds and alternative investments. The exposure of higher risk assets 
(equities and property) will not exceed 25%.
Mrs S was also provided with a graph showing the performance of her current ISA 
investments compared to the Nexus 2 portfolio and the reasoning behind the 
recommendation which was The nexus 2 portfolio is lower risk than your current portfolio 
and has outperformed both your current portfolios. 
While it is noted in the report that past performance is not an indication of future 
performance, I dont find that the reasoning  the hoped-for better performance  for the 
recommended switch to be unreasonable. Because of this, theres no reason for me to conclude that the recommendation was made for the benefit of Nexus rather than Mrs S. 
The discretionary fund management service was one that Nexus offered its clients so I cant 
conclude it shouldnt have offered that service to Mrs S. 
Mr P has concerns about the advice being given to Mrs S via virtual mediums during the 
Covid pandemic. He said Mrs S was 86 years of age and didnt have anyone to assist her in 
a personal manner and it was difficult for her to understand what was being done, the 
charges and why it was necessary. He said she would have struggled with the documents 
she received and was asked to sign and return.
I have considered Mr Ps comments about Mrs Ss age and whether she had the capacity to 
acknowledge all of the information she was given in the investments recommendation and 
other documents. I appreciate the changes were recommended during the Covid pandemic 
and a face to face meeting wasnt possible. Ive carefully considered this point and whether 
Nexus took advantage of Mrs S if she was a vulnerable customer. 
I note that the advisers meeting notes further to his call with Mrs S recorded that she was in 
good health and lived independently. She had relied on her late husband  who was an 
active investor  to have made investment decisions for them both. She didnt take too much 
active interest in the management of the portfolio with Nexus or another direct equity 
portfolio she held elsewhere. But I note its recorded that Mrs S filled out her tax return on an 
annual basis and her response recorded in the quite detailed attitude to risk questionnaire in 
November 2020 suggest she fully understood the questions being asked. 
And the comment that Mrs S didnt take an active interest in her investments would suggest 
that may have been one of the reasons Mrs S decided to take advantage of the discretionary 
service. She may have been comforted to know that her portfolio was being actively 
managed on her behalf. 
Mr P has said that bearing in mind Mrs Ss age, the initial cost to make the switch was 
unnecessary. But equally it could be argued that Mrs S wanted to ensure that all of her 
finances were in good order and being properly managed. And in order to do so she was 
willing to pay that cost for the service and to benefit from a hoped-for better return on her 
investments. So, after considering Mrs Ss age and circumstances, I dont find the 
recommendations made to her were inappropriate for her situation.
Mr P was confused how the 2014 review became included in the complaint. He had only 
complained about the advice given to Mrs S in 2021. He also questioned the redress method 
and whether it matched an equivalent portfolio that was ultimately recommended. Mr P has 
said that it is irrespective of whether Mrs S is better off because of Nexus error. The charges 
were unfairly levied. 
With reference to the inclusion of the 2014 review, when bringing a complaint, a consumer 
may not always be fully aware of the reasoning behind that complaint. They may just 
recognise that something is wrong. Our inquisitorial remit allows us to comment on anything 
we see during the course of our investigation which we dont think is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. In this case, the investigator felt it appropriate that in order for him to look 
at the full picture of Mrs Ss complaint and be fair to the parties, it was necessary to review 
the advice given in 2014 as well. 
Because of the time since the advice was given  and the time limits that apply  the 
investigator sought Nexus consent for us to consider it. It agreed that we could look at the 
advice given from October 2014 onwards, so it was included in the investigators review and 
as the complaint was upheld, for compensation purposes it was from that point. And I agree that the advice given in 2014 and that Mrs S was recognised as a lower risk investor at that 
point, to be intrinsically linked to the initial complaint. 
The outcome of the calculations for putting the matter right for Mrs S is that she has 
financially benefited from the portfolio she has been invested into compared to the 
benchmark. Mr P says that in addition, Mrs S should be paid the fees incurred as stated in 
the investigators view letter  the advice cost and charges should be refunded from 2014. 
However, I dont agree. I say this because in order for me to make a financial award as a 
result of a fault by Nexus actions or inactions, Id need evidence to show that Mrs S had 
suffered a financial loss because of those actions or inactions. In this case, it was found that 
Nexus was at fault, but Mrs S hasnt suffered a financial loss because of that fault. She has 
in fact financially benefited. So, there is no loss for me to order compensation to put the 
matter right. 
Mrs S was paying both on going charges and a one-off initial cost for the advice she 
received in 2021. Part of that advice was for Mrs S to move her ISA investments onto the 
discretionary managed platform which was a significant change for Mrs S and both of which 
required effort by Nexus to assess and implement. I dont find that there is any reason it 
couldnt charge for this. Mrs S was fully informed about this initial fee as evidenced by the 
information given in the Investment Recommendations document. And Mrs S wasnt under 
any obligation to proceed with the advice or agree to the initial charge if she didnt want to.
Nexus also compared the total charge of the existing ISAs with the future charges if she 
were to switch to the Nucleus platform. And those charges are higher which was detailed in 
the Investment Recommendations document as it took into account the additional 
discretionary fund management charges. This was all clearly explained, and I havent seen 
anything to suggest that there were any costs that werent transparent. 
So, taking all of the above into consideration I am satisfied that Mrs S was aware of the 
reasoning for the recommendation and costs, and had sufficient time to consider whether 
she wanted to go ahead on that basis. In short, she made a fully informed investment 
decision to proceed.
In its calculations of the performance, Nexus has told us that the adviser fees are taken into 
account. And I have confirmed with Nexus that this includes the one-off initial fee of 
£2,340.00 Mrs S paid. It said the calculation wasnt based on fund performance against the 
benchmark but the actual portfolio performance with the fees taken into consideration  it 
said this is the real portfolio valuation. 
Mr P has questioned the comparator indices used for redress purposes. He doesnt agree 
with it because it wasnt an equivalent benchmark to the portfolio she should have been in 
75% fixed interest and 25% equity. 
Its impossible for me to know how Mrs S would have invested since 2014. But taking into 
account her attitude to risk, I dont find a split between the FTSE UK Private Investors Return 
Index and the average rate from fixed rate bonds to be an unreasonable alternative. It isnt 
meant to be, and cant be, an accurate representation of what Mrs S would have done as 
that cant be known. It is a benchmark that I consider reasonably matches what Mrs S would 
have invested into in line with her objectives and attitude to risk. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, and for the reasons give, I uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint and for completeness I include the method for the redress calculation below. The 
calculation carried out by the business has shown that nothing is due to Mrs S as she is in a 
better financial position than she would otherwise have been. The gesture of goodwill offer of £1,000 is still available to Mrs S so it is now for her to decide 
whether to accept that payment. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put   
Mrs S as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs S' circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Nexus do?
To compensate Mrs S fairly, Nexus must:
Compare the performance of Mrs S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Nexus should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
ISAs Still exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investment 
(2014)Date of 
Nucleus 
Portfolio 
(2021)Not 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Nexus should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Nexus totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs S wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs S' risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs S into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs S would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs S could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman