DRN-1822698
The complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen 
Financial Services (VWFS) refused to allow him to change the mileage limit on a car he was 
financing with them despite having previously told him this would be possible.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the finance agreement should not have
been misrepresented to Mr B. If it was, and if Mr B would not have entered into the
agreement had it not been, then Id think VWFS were responsible and Id ask them to take
some action.
Here, I am not persuaded its most likely this finance agreement was misrepresented to
Mr B. I say that because:
the finance agreement makes it clear that the mileage limit agreed is 8,000 miles per 
year. There are no options in the agreement for this, or other terms in the contract, to 
be renegotiated midterm;
Mr B says he was told by the VW driveline that the mileage could always be adjusted 
but I dont have any further corroboration of that, and the finance agreement makes 
no mention of it. Its not been possible to retrieve a recording of the phone call Mr B 
says he had with VW driveline as they only keep recordings for a limited period  I 
think thats understandable;
I think it was therefore for VWFS to decide whether they were prepared to amend the 
mileage limit on the agreement. This was optional and they were not obliged to do so 
but Ive considered whether their decision not to allow Mr B to change the mileage 
limit was fair. I think it was because there was a very limited time left on the finance 
agreement. That would have resulted in a substantial increase in the remaining 
monthly instalment charge which would have necessitated a reconsideration of the 
affordability of the credit they were advancing.
I also understand that Mr B is unhappy that VWFS have charged him 15p for each 
additional mile he has travelled. This rate is explained on page 1 of his finance 
agreement. There is a charge of 9p per additional mile and also 6p per additional 
mile travelled in respect of the additional maintenance. Mr B had entered into a 
maintenance agreement as well so the 6p charge was also applicable in addition to 
the 9p for additional mileage. So, I dont think VWFS have done anything wrong 
when applying a 15p rate.
I also understand that Mr B is disappointed with VWFSs suggestion that he could 
extend his agreement to spread the mileage cost. I understand that this wasnt a 
realistic option for him at the time as hed already secured another vehicle. But I cant 
say VWFS were wrong to suggest this as they were clearly trying to provide an 
option for Mr B.
I dont think it would be fair to suggest the agreement was misrepresented and Im not 
asking VWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman