DRN-4446209
The complaint
Miss S has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited trading as AXA Health (AXA) has 
unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Miss S had a group private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA. 
In September 2021, Miss S was admitted to hospital. She contacted AXA who authorised 
diagnostic treatment. AXA paid Miss S costs but refused to pay for her surgery. AXA 
accepted it had incorrectly authorised the initial tests but said the surgery was not authorised 
and so it would not pay for this. 
Miss S complained to AXA and unhappy with its response, referred her complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that although AXA had incorrectly 
authorised diagnostics, it had paid for the tests and so he didnt think it needed to do 
anything further. 
Miss S disagreed, and in summary, said her condition was not pre-existing and should have 
been covered in full. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
In my decision I will focus on what I consider to be the crux of this complaint. I have 
considered everything Miss S has said in detail but I wont comment on everything as 
the background is well known to both parties.
The policy says it does not cover: Treatment of medical conditions you had, or had 
symptoms of, before you joined.  
Miss S joined on moratorium terms and so she wouldnt have cover for treatment of 
any pre-existing conditions until she had been a member for two years in a row and 
shed had a period of 24 consecutive months since she joined that had been trouble 
free from that condition. 
The policy terms define a pre-existing condition as: any disease, illness or injury that 
you have received medication, advice or treatment in the five years before the start of 
cover, or you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your 
cover; whether or not the condition was diagnosed. 
Miss S spoke to AXA and said she had been to hospital due to severe abdominal 
pain. AXA authorised an initial consultation, diagnostics and a follow up consultation. 
But it said that if Miss S needed a procedure, AXA would need a procedure code. 
Miss S was asked to keep AXA updated.
AXA said it had incorrectly authorised treatment for Miss S as she had a pre-existing 
medical condition. And further medical evidence should have been requested first. 
Due to the errors it made, it paid for the costs it had authorised including the initial 
diagnostics. It said it didnt authorise the procedure Miss S had and so didnt pay the 
costs for this, of approximately £2,000.
Miss S says AXA should have paid for all her costs as her condition was not pre-
existing and so all of her treatment was eligible. 
Ive looked at the medical evidence provided and, in a letter, dated 6 October 2021, 
her consultant said Miss S had a 5-year history of pelvic pain. And that she had a 
laparoscopy in 2017 when PCOS was found. As a result of this letter, I think AXA has 
correctly said that Miss S condition falls within the pre-existing condition definition. 
Even if Miss S hadnt had a diagnosis, symptoms alone are enough for her condition 
to be deemed pre-existing under the definition and terms of the policy. 
Additionally, AXA has said that Miss S did not call for authorisation for the procedure 
and had she done so, it wouldnt have authorised this. The policy provides cover for 
treatment which is medically necessary and it didnt think the procedure she had was 
medically necessary for the diagnosis of her condition. 
Miss S has provided some letters from 2017 which she says show that she wasnt 
diagnosed with PCOS in 2017. But I dont think this changes anything. Firstly 
because AXA has said it never would have authorised the procedure had Miss S 
called as it didnt recognise it as medically necessary for Miss S condition. And 
secondly, a letter from 2021 refers to PCOS being found in 2017 - I cannot discount 
this.
Overall, I dont think AXA unfairly concluded that Miss S condition isnt eligible under 
the terms of her policy due to her symptoms and the medical evidence from 2021. 
Where AXA has mistakenly authorised diagnostics, it has paid for these. And I think 
this is a reasonable remedy for its mistakes and customer service failings. As the 
procedure would never have been authorised by AXA had Miss S called as she was 
requested to do, I cant fairly ask AXA to pay the costs of it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman