DRN-2083108
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint concerns the information they have been given by Liverpool 
Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) about the two with profits bonds they invested in.  
They're unhappy as theyve been given inaccurate information on several occasions and 
they are now concerned about how the bonuses applied to their bonds have been 
calculated. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H invested in two with-profits bonds (in joint names) in 2001. They paid a single 
premium of £50,000 into each bond. They started to take regular annual withdrawals from 
the bonds in 2005.   
In October 2019 they received a letter from LV informing them of an administrative error 
relating to their bonds. The letter said Mr and Mrs H needed to take action in relation to 
chargeable gains for tax purposes. They queried the letter and received incorrect information 
on the phone about the amount of their initial investment and the withdrawals theyve made.  
Mr and Mrs H made a complaint about the errors and also raised further issues relating to 
how LV had dealt with them when seeking information over the last few years. LV responded 
to the complaint. It admitted it had made several errors and corrected the information it had 
given Mr and Mrs H. It also clarified that due to Mr and Mrs Hs tax status there would be no 
tax liability for them to correct  so they didnt need to take any action. LV paid them £300 to 
recognise the trouble it had caused. Mr and Mrs didnt accept the offer and raised further 
concerns about how the bonuses had been calculated on their bonds. 
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He found that LV had corrected the inaccurate information it provided to Mr and 
Mrs. He felt the offer made was fair in respect of the circumstances. He also didnt find 
reason to think that LV had made errors in applying bonuses to the bonds. 
As Mr and Mrs H didn't accept the investigator's opinion, the matter's been referred to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that errors have been made by LV. This includes the admission of problems with 
reporting chargeable gains information when it transferred the administration of its systems 
from one office to another.  Then shortly after confirming this administrative error (in a  
October 2019 letter), it also gave inaccurate information in a telephone conversation relating 
to the amount of the original investment and ad-hoc withdrawals. LV also apologised for not 
returning a call from 2018 about voting rights. 
LV says there hasnt been a financial impact on Mr and Mrs H because of its errors. With 
regards to the issues relating to how chargeable gain information has been provided, I 
accept that this administrative error didnt have a financial impact on Mr and Mrs H. Ive 
reached this view based on the information Mr and Mrs H have provided about their tax 
status. Despite LVs errors, Mr and Mrs H taxs status means that that there isnt any further 
tax liability for them to consider. I also note that LV has corrected the information it gave in 
error over the phone and apologised for not responding to Mr and Mrs Hs query about 
voting rights. 
But all of this has had an emotional impact on Mr and Mrs H. It has caused them confusion 
and worry about how their investments were being managed. So, I do think it is right that 
compensation should be paid to them to recognise the impact of LVs errors. LV has already 
paid Mr and Mrs H £300. I acknowledge that they didnt accept this offer and it was paid to 
them anyway. However, I do think this it is a fair amount considering the circumstances, so 
Im not suggested LV increase this offer.  
Ive considered the further concerns Mr and Mrs H have raised about the accuracy of the 
bonuses applied to their bonds. LV has admitted to several mistakes in the information it has 
provided to Mr and Mrs H over recent years. So, I do appreciate why they have an element 
of distrust in the information given to them by LV about the bonuses. But I also recognise 
that just because other incorrect information has been given in the past it doesnt mean the 
bonuses applied must be incorrect. In order to reach that conclusion, I would need evidence 
to support there had been a problem with how bonuses have been allocated. 
The application of bonuses is dependent on decision made by LV on its overall management 
of the bonds. It is a commercial decision by the product provider to decide how much the 
bonus will be at any given time, and this service is unable to tell LV how much the bonus 
should be. Considering everything that has happen, I do understand why it can be very 
difficult for Mr and Mrs H to be satisfied that they are receiving the correct returns. But I also 
note that they havent been able to provide any specific reason or evidence that an incorrect 
bonus has been applied. 
LV has provided some information to this service relating to how it allocates bonuses but has 
explained that it is commercially sensitive. I think this a reasonable position for it to take, so 
Im am unable to share everything with Mr and Mrs H. I have reviewed the statements LV 
provided to Mr and Mrs H over the last few years to show the performance of the bond. I can 
see in these statements that the correct level of investment is detailed and that only the 
agreed regular withdrawals have been applied  and not any ad-hoc withdrawals.  The 
statements also explain the current and previous annual percentage bonus rates. LV has 
also provided details of the monetary amount of bonuses applied over recent years to each 
bond. I havent found cause for concern from this information when comparing this to the 
bonus rates stated in the annual statements provided by LV. 
Mr and Mrs H believe that further investigation should be completed around how LV 
calculate bonuses for their bonds. I know this will disappointment them but in my view it has 
provided sufficient explanation for how the bonds have been managed. Without specific 
evidence of errors, I havent found reason to seek further justification of the bonuses applied.
In short, I've seen nothing in the evidence that suggests a mistake or other wrongdoing by 
LV in how it has applied bonuses to Mr and Mrs Hs bonds. I accept that it made other errors 
when providing other information (for which fair compensation has been paid), but this hasnt 
led me to finding a link between these errors and how bonuses have been applied. 
So, Im not going to ask LV to take any further action here. My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman