DRN-3859450
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Ws complaint is about the second charge mortgage they took out with Step One 
Finance Limited (trading as Step One Finance). They have said that the mortgage was 
unaffordable and the decision to lend to them was irresponsible because of their credit 
profiles and their existing debts. They say this has led to further financial difficulties.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs and Mr W sought advice from an independent mortgage broker, which 
recommended the mortgage with Step One. The purpose of the loan was for debt 
consolidation. The mortgage was advanced on 13 March 2019. It was for just under £64,000 
over a term of 25 years. A five-year fixed interest rate was attached to the mortgage and so 
the monthly payments were set at £864.44.
Step One responded to the complaint in a letter of 24 March 2022. It explained the 
information it had gathered at the time of the application to determine if lending should be 
agreed. It highlighted that the evidence showed that, while Mrs and Mr W had had some 
financial difficulties in the past, they werent experiencing current problems and their credit 
was being managed well. Step One was satisfied that it had carried out robust and thorough 
affordability checks, and so it rejected the complaint.
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with the response and asked the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to look into their complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He was satisfied that Step One had gathered appropriate information to assess the 
affordability and the loan appeared to be affordable, based on their circumstances at the 
time. He subsequently confirmed that a stress test was also done to ensure the affordability 
of the loan in the event interest rates increased, and that it had been. He also commented 
that the evidence from the time didnt show that Mr and Mrs W were in financial difficulties, 
although it was clear that theyd had difficulties in the past.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman. Mr and Mrs W then raised complaint points about the advice they 
were given at the time of the sale of the loan. Our investigator provided Mr and Mrs W with 
some factual information to assist them at that point, but as the advice wasnt provided by 
Step One, he didnt provide any significant comment.
Mr and Mrs W subsequently provided some further documentation:
A letter dated 8 March 2019 from the lender of the second charge loan that was 
consolidated into the Step One loan, which informed Mrs W that a monthly payment had 
been missed.
A redemption statement for the existing second charge loan, dated 29 November 2018.
Information from a debt charity sent to Mr W on 8 March 2019 that gave generic 
information about managing debts.
What Ive decided  and why
Before I comment on the merits of this complaint, I would confirm that this decision deals 
only with the complaint Mrs and Mr W originally brought to us about the affordability of the 
mortgage and whether the lending had been given irresponsibly. The concerns they raised 
after the investigator expressed his opinion would need to be raised as a new complaint. I 
would also highlight to Mrs and Mr W that if they have concerns about the advice they 
received to take out the mortgage, they would need to direct that complaint to the broker that 
sold it to them.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Step One had a duty to lend responsibly to Mrs and Mr W. As such, it was required to carry 
out an assessment of affordability in line with the regulators Mortgage and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB).
The information provided shows that Step One took account of Mrs and Mr Ws verified net 
income, their committed expenditure (including the payments to the debts they were not 
consolidating) and basic essential living costs. This showed that Mrs and Mr W had a 
disposable income of around £2,400 each month. The new mortgage would cost less than 
£900, and so it was reasonable for Step One to consider the disposable income meant the 
mortgage was affordable and gave Mrs and Mr W a cushion in the event of any increases in 
outgoings. 
There was no need for Step One to carry out an interest stress test as the interest rate on 
the mortgage was fixed for five years. However, it did so and, based on the information it 
had the mortgage was still considered affordable. 
It is clear that the lending was affordable, but Mrs and Mr W have raised concerns that they 
were in financial difficulties at the time and so the mortgage shouldnt have been granted. It 
is right that Step One should have had regard to their wider circumstances when deciding 
whether to lend. This would include things like their payment history with creditors, the 
amount of credit they had taken and the timescales in which credit was taken.  Step One 
obtained Mrs and Mr Ws credit report for this purpose and while there was evidence of 
historic financial difficulties, there was nothing in the more recent activity on their accounts 
that meant Step One should have had concerns.
I note that Mrs and Mr W have provided a letter from a few days before the Step One 
mortgage was advanced that showed the most recent payment to their existing second 
charge loan had been missed. Having reviewed the credit report obtained, this appears to be 
the first occasion this had happened and, as it was so close to the mortgage being 
advanced, it is unlikely that Step One was aware of this event. I would also comment that as 
it was so close to completion of the new mortgage, which would repay the existing loan, 
there are potential explanations for the missed payment other than financial difficulties, such 
as the direct debit being cancelled in anticipation of the completion of the new mortgage.
Mrs W has also provided a copy of her credit report from early in 2022. This shows that 
further borrowing was taken very soon after the Step One mortgage was advanced. As our 
investigator pointed out, Step One couldnt have taken this borrowing into account when it 
made its decision, as the borrowing didnt exist at the time. If taking further borrowing was 
always Mrs and Mr Ws intention, Step One could only have been aware of their plans if they 
had told their broker and it had passed that information on to Step One. It doesnt appear 
that this was the case.Overall, I dont consider Step Ones decision to lend was unreasonable in the circumstances 
at the time Mrs and Mr W applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman