DRN-4395592
The complaint
Mr A complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly avoided his car insurance policy and 
declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr As car was damaged by a third party, so he claimed on his policy with AXA. When his 
car was inspected it was discovered it had a clear paint protection film (PPF) applied to the 
bodywork. 
AXA reviewed the claim and decided to decline it, avoid Mr As policy and refund his 
premium. It said this was because Mr As car was modified and if it had known about the 
PPF wrap then it wouldnt have covered his car. Mr A didnt think this was fair and 
complained, he didnt agree the PPF was a modification as it hadnt changed how the car 
looked and was there to protect the paint. 
AXA reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It maintained its position that Mr A had 
failed to take reasonable care when taking out the policy. It said the PPF was what is known 
as a wrap and Mr A should have declared it when taking the policy out. AXA said if he had 
then it wouldnt have offered him a policy. Mr A didnt think that was fair and brought his 
complaint here. He said he wasnt aware the PPF was on the car until he had the claim and 
provided evidence to support this. He also said his insurance had increased due to the 
avoidance and so hed likely need to sell the car. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
when Mr A took out the policy, he wasnt aware his car had the PPF applied to it and so 
didnt agree hed failed to take reasonable care when taking out the policy. She 
recommended AXA:
1. Reimburse Mr A for any repairs he had to pay to repair his car
2. Pay Mr A the increase in premiums hed paid due to the avoidance
3. If Mr A had sold the car without having it repaired, she recommended AXA pay the 
difference between what Mr A sold the car for and what he would have received if it 
hadnt been damaged
4. Remove the avoidance from internal and external databases
5. Pay Mr A £350 for the distress and inconvenience cause
AXA didnt agree with our investigator. It said it thought Mr A knew about the PPF on the car 
from the claims calls hed had and that he therefore should have declared it as a 
modification. 
As AXA didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out the policy online. Mr A originally used an aggregator site and then was put through 
to AXA.  
Ive looked at the question Mr A was asked which says: Has the car been modified in any 
way? There is an explanation next to the question which says: A modification is any 
change to the manufacturers original specification or features. That includes things like new 
stereos, body kits or spoilers, alloy wheels, new paintwork and any performance 
enhancement. Mr A answered the modification question by saying No. 
Mr As explained he answered the question this way as he didnt know about the PPF on his 
car, as its clear. Ive also seen the invoice for the PPF which is dated before Mr A bought 
the car and the advert for when Mr A bought the car doesnt mention that it has PPF applied 
to it. Mr A has also said he wasnt sent the invoice for the PPF until after the accident  as 
hed been asked for it to contacted the seller of his car to request it. 
I understand AXA thinks Mr A knew about the PPF as during the claim calls, he disputes that 
it even needs to be declared. From reviewing the information about when the PPF was 
applied and the sales advert, Im persuaded that Mr A didnt know about the PPF when 
taking out the policy, as hes said. Im therefore not persuaded hes failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. And so, it follows that AXA has no remedies under 
CIDRA. 
Ive therefore looked at the impact on Mr A from AXA unfairly avoiding his policy. AXA 
refunded his premium and declined his claim. Mr As explained that due to the avoidance 
hes had to do temporary repairs and that the insurance premiums have increased. 
I asked our investigator to let both parties know that I intended to direct AXA to:
1. Remove any adverse entries related to the cancellation placed on any 
internal or external databases
2. Pay the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr A has 
said hes paid £1,585 for temporary repairs. If these arent lasting and 
effective repairs, then AXA will need to re-do the repairs to ensure the 
damage caused in the accident is repaired to acceptable industry standards3. Pay Mr A the £1,585 he paid for the temporary repairs, as he shouldnt have 
had to pay for them. 8% simple interest per year needs to be added to this 
amount to compensate him for not having the money
4. Pay Mr A £350 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
AXA didnt respond to the additional information around the redress proposed. Mr A 
responded and explained his new premium had cost him around £500 more than previously, 
due to the cancellation and asked for this to also be refunded.
Ive considered Mr As points along with the policy schedule for his new policy which hes 
provided to show this. While I can see hes paid a higher premium, its not clear how much of 
this is related to the cancellation. Therefore, Mr A would need to ask his new insurer to 
recalculate his premium to not include the cancellation and ask for the difference to be 
refunded. AXA will also need to provide Mr A with a letter confirming it avoided the policy in 
error so he can provide it to his new insurer. 
If the new insurer refuses to refund the increase Mr A paid due to having this policy 
cancelled, Mr A can let AXA know how much more hes paid due to the cancellation. AXA 
will also need to pay this amount, subject to reasonable evidence being provided. Also as 
AXA is now paying this claim, it is entitled to the premium for the policy. However, as Mr A 
had to buy another policy, hes also paid to insure his car for a period of time the policy with 
AXA should have covered his car for. Therefore, if AXA seeks payment of the original 
premium it will needed to deduct the amount Mr A paid the new insurer to insure his car, 
while his car should have been insured under the policy with AXA.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
1. Remove any adverse entries related to the avoidance placed on any 
internal or external databases and provide Mr A with a letter confirming it 
avoided the policy in error. 
2. Pay the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr A has 
said hes paid £1,585 for temporary repairs. If these arent lasting and 
effective repairs, then AXA will need to re-do the repairs to ensure the 
damage caused in the accident is repaired to acceptable industry 
standards. 
3. Pay Mr A the £1,585 he paid for the temporary repairs, as he shouldnt 
have had to pay for them. 8% simple interest per year needs to be added 
to this amount, calculated from the date Mr A paid for the repairs until the 
date of settlement. 
4. As AXA is paying the claim its entitled to the premium. If AXA seeks 
payment for this, it will need to deduct what Mr A paid for his new policy, 
for the time it would overlap with his policy with AXA. 
5. Pay Mr A £350 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman