DRN-3304728
The complaint
Mr G is represented. He says Suffolk Life Pensions Limited (trading as Curtis Bank (CB)) 
delayed the transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to Aviva, following his 
transfer instruction in late February 2020. He seeks compensation for financial loss resulting 
from the delay.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He mainly found as follows:
Mr G signed the transfer application on 20 February; CB received it from Aviva on 29 
February and wrote to his representative (R) on 3 March to confirm the receipt; in 
the same communication it highlighted a lost policy declaration issue in the discharge 
form and R responded to that on 5 and 6 March; also on 3 March, CB wrote to Aviva 
to request its acceptance of the SIPP; also on 6 March, R asked CB for an interim 
cash payment transfer into the Aviva SIPP, CB said that up to around £330,000 could 
be paid in this respect and that it would look into sending it by BACS the following 
week; on 11 March Aviva emailed CB, it confirmed acceptance of the SIPP and that 
four specified funds (JPM Natural Resources, JPM Emerging Markets, M&G 
Recovery and M&G Global Themes) were to be transferred in specie whilst the 
others were to be liquidated and transferred in cash; CB contacted R on 13 March to 
say it could take liquidation instruction only from Mr G or R, not from Aviva, and that 
such instruction was unclear in his discharge form, so Rs instruction/clarification was 
required; R confirmed the instruction on 16 March; CB transferred an interim 
payment of £337,000 to Aviva on 19 March; on the same date it also sent wrongly 
completed stock transfer forms for the other relevant funds; new transfer forms were 
subsequently submitted; funds were received and remitted over the course of 4, 7, 
12, 15 and 22 May; and over the course of 1 and 7 October liquidation proceeds for a 
specific fund (Threadneedle UK Property Fund) were received and remitted  the 
fund had been suspended on 18 March.
Mr Gs key arguments are that CB delayed progress of his transfer by 16 days and, 
but for this, the Threadneedle fund would have been sold before it was suspended; 
that it should have instructed the relevant fund managers on 3 March (such 
instruction would have been executed the following day); that the instruction 
clarification it sought on 13 March should have been sought during its contacts with R 
on 3, 5 and 6 March; that it also delayed in remitting the cash proceeds; and, also on 
the Threadneedle fund, that when it was clear his holding could not be traded CB 
failed to offer conversion to a share class that was acceptable to Aviva, in order to 
facilitate its transfer.
CB caused notable delays in the process. 
The documentation it received at the outset confirmed a part cash, part in specie 
transfer instruction, but it did not specify the funds to be transferred in specie, so CB 
was right to query this. Aviva confirmed this on 11 March, but CB was also right to 
obtain instruction for this directly from R (on behalf of Mr G). However, it could and 
should have done this as part of its feedback to R on 3 March. It had reviewed the 
documentation at the time and had identified the discharge form issue that it raised 
with R, so it ought also to have identified and queried the missing information on the 
funds to be transferred in specie. R would have responded promptly, as it did to the 
13 March enquiry. By the time Aviva confirmed acceptance on 11 March CB would 
have been in a position to progress the transfer and, within two working days (by 13 
March), it would have instructed the relevant fund managers.
In the call of 6 March CB referred to the expectation that the interim cash payment 
would be made the following week, and there is a suggestion that it would contact 
Aviva in this respect  though it is not clear if such contact was ever made. CB made 
the payment on 19 March, six working days after Avivas confirmation of acceptance 
on 11 March. This was done unreasonably late and it should have been done within 
two working days  by 13 March. With regards to the other payments received and 
remitted in May, they too were transferred unreasonably late  given the dates on 
which the different funds were received and subsequently transferred. CB knew, 
through Rs email instruction of 29 April, that Mr G required immediate remittance of 
the funds. In this respect too, CB should have transferred the funds within two 
working days of their receipts  which is not what it did.
Given that CB should have been able to instruct the relevant fund managers by 13 
March, this would have happened before the Threadneedle fund suspension on 18 
March. Liquidation of Mr Gs holding in the fund was instructed on 17 September and 
execution followed on the same date. It is probable that execution would have been 
just as prompt if the instruction was given on 13 March, so the holding could have 
been sold prior to the suspension if such instruction had happened. The fact that 
remittance of the September sale did not happen until nine days after the sale is 
noted.
For the trouble and upset caused to Mr G in the matter, he should be paid £200. In 
terms of financial loss, the way the interim payment in March was used in the Aviva 
SIPP [the interim Aviva portfolio] serves as a natural benchmark for redress. It is not 
certain that Mr G would have invested any additional sums transferred at the time in 
exactly the same way, but it is reasonable to conclude that he probably would have 
invested in broadly the same way. The interim Aviva portfolio should be used to 
calculate any financial loss resulting from the late transfers of the SIPPs cash and 
assumptions, in the calculations, should be made that the relevant fund managers 
would have taken the same time (as they did in reality) to action the instructions they 
received and to remit the sale proceeds, and that the proceeds would have been 
invested the day after their receipts in the Aviva SIPP.
Both sides raised queries about the investigators findings and conclusion.
R mainly says  for the sake of the redress calculation no withdrawals have been made from 
the Aviva SIPP and the only payments into it are from the transfer; one of the cash receipts 
and remittances summarised in the investigators view is wrong (it relates to a fund re-
registration and not fund liquidation); we should note that re-registration of the M&G 
Recovery fund in the transfer process was delayed twice by CBs errors and this should be 
reflected in terms of financial loss because it delayed subsequent liquidation of the fund and 
reinvestment of the proceeds in one of the funds within the interim Aviva portfolio (the CFP 
SDL UK Buffettology fund  the Buffettology fund); CB did not need to await Avivas 
acceptance confirmation of 11 March in order to instruct the fund liquidations, it could have 
instructed the fund managers in this respect on 6 March; it was R, not CB, that instructed the 
Threadneedle holding liquidation on 17 September and it did so because of seeming inaction by CB; this was unconventional, it ought to have been CB instructing the sale, but 
Threadneedle agreed; however, because of this approach, the release of proceeds (by the 
fund) was not as straightforward as it would have been if CB had instructed the sale, CB was 
required to issue renunciation forms and that led to a release delay of nine working days.
CB considers that the investigator has made unreasonable findings on how the transfer 
process should have progressed, and that the findings are inconsistent with the industry 
wide framework for pensions transfers as set out by the Transfers and Re-registration 
Industry Group (TRIG). However, it accepts the investigators award of £200 for the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr G by the delay (in terms of incorrect instructions it gave in the 
process).
It notes that the investigator referred to the same TRIG framework and that based on its 
provisions, cash transfers should happen within 10 working days and a firm should be 
allowed two working days for each step of the process. 
CB mainly says  in Mr Gs case it could not progress the interim payment until it received 
Avivas acceptance of the transfer on 11 March; with regards to the other payments, it 
accepts that it could have sought clarification of the funds to transfer in specie and those to 
liquidate (and transfer in cash) when it wrote to R at the outset, but it does not agree that this 
delayed the process because it had to verify Avivas instruction, through contact with R on 
13 March; in the alternative, even if it had made the enquiry on 3 March and received Rs 
response on 5 March, and then asked for Avivas acceptance confirmation the following day, 
it took Aviva six working days (in reality) to provide such confirmation, so based on that (and 
on any further work required if Mr Gs instructions were not acceptable to Aviva) it is unlikely 
that the interim payment or sale and reregistration instructions could have been issued 
before 19 March; within two days of Avivas 11 March confirmation it sought clarification of 
instructions from R, and within three days of receiving that clarification it made the interim 
payment, these were reasonably timely actions and within the 10 working days set out in the 
framework for cash transfers; the same broadly applies for the sale and re-registration 
instructions (other than the events related to the Threadneedle holding which were beyond 
its cause and control); and by 19 March the Threadneedle fund had already been suspended 
(without prior warning), the last date to instruct sale of the holding would have been 16 
March and that could not have been done because there had been no prior clarity in Mr Gs 
transfer application/instruction on which holdings to sell and which to transfer in specie. 
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view and he wrote to both sides to explain 
why (and to address they main comments). The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The matter of liability remains in dispute. This was/is the main focus of CBs response to the 
investigators findings. Rs response, on behalf of Mr G, also refers to some matters of 
liability but its main focus appears to be the investigators findings on redress. I will first 
address liability (including the points disputed by CB) and then set out my conclusions on 
redress. It follows from the latter that I have decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint  hence the 
relevance of redress  and that, on balance and for the reasons given in the next section, I 
am not persuaded by CBs dispute over liability. 
Liability
The key dates in the transfer are as noted by the investigator  and are as I summarised above. A meaningful starting point for my considerations is CBs contacts with R and Aviva 
on 3 March. This was the Tuesday that followed the weekend in which Mr Gs application 
appears to have been received by CB, so it was not an unduly late date for it to begin the 
process  which is what it did by contacting both parties. However, like the investigator, I too 
find that it should have done more on this date.
It was/is an implicit responsibility upon CB, as a priority (or as one of its priorities), to clarify 
the part cash part in specie transfer instruction that was unclear in the application. I do not 
dismiss the fact that responsibility for the application being unclear in this respect did not 
belong to CB  and appears to have belonged to Mr G or R  but, in real terms, the 
responsibility to resolve it passed to CB upon its receipt of the application. Without such 
resolution at the outset, it was always going to be a foreseeable task to address in the future 
 because it defined the transfer itself  and one that would potentially cause a delay. On 
balance, I am satisfied that this should have been identified and queried within CBs contact 
with R on 3 March, and I have not seen a reason why that could not have happened. It had 
gone through the application by this date and it had identified the lost policy issue, so it 
ought reasonably to have also identified the lack of clarity on which assets to sell and which 
to retain in the transfer.
On 3 March, CB should have written to R to confirm receipt of the transfer application, as it 
did, but it also should have highlighted and sought instruction on which assets to sell and 
which to retain (which it did not do); it also should have written to Aviva for confirmation of 
acceptance of the transfer, as it did. I accept that Avivas response to CB on 11 March was 
beyond its control, so I also accept that in any case and in response to its request of 3 March 
it would have received the same confirmation of acceptance from Aviva that it received on 
11 March. However, on that date CB would have had Rs confirmation of the interim 
payment request (which R gave on 6 March), it would have had Rs clarification of the lost 
policy issue (which was done between 5 and 6 March) and it would probably have had Rs 
clarification of the assets to be sold and those to be retained in the transfer  in reality, R 
responded to CBs 13 March query about this on the next business day of 16 March, so it 
would probably have done the same if the query was sent on 3 March (that is, it would have 
probably responded by 4 March) and that would have happened well before Avivas reply of 
11 March. 
But for CBs failure to resolve the asset treatment clarification through an enquiry on 3 
March, it would have been in a position to move to the next steps of the transfer process  
that is, executing the interim payment instruction, beginning the process to transfer the 
assets to be moved in specie and beginning the process for liquidation of the other assets to 
be moved in cash  on 11 March.
R says CB should have instructed the relevant fund managers prior to 11 March. Overall, I 
disagree. It needed to know which assets to retain and which to sell, in the transfer, and I 
accept that based on my finding above it probably would have had this clarification by 4 
March (and before 11 March) had it raised it with R on 3 March. However, I do not consider it 
unreasonable for CB to have also awaited Avivas confirmation of acceptance of the 
proposed transfer before taking any further meaningful steps  such as contacting the fund 
managers. Avivas acceptance (or otherwise) was beyond its control and, until confirmed, it 
was not necessarily a forgone conclusion, so I am not persuaded that CB can reasonably be 
expected to have behaved like it was guaranteed, by instructing actions on the SIPPs 
assets prior to such acceptance. On balance, I consider it was reasonable to wait for the 
confirmation of acceptance on 11 March.
CB presents an alternative argument based on the assumptions that a query raised about 
the asset treatment on 3 March would have been responded to by R on 5 March, that it (CB) 
would have then sought Avivas confirmation of acceptance the following day (6 March), that Aviva would then have taken the same six business days that it took (in reality) to provide 
the confirmation, and that Avivas confirmation would then have been received on 16 March 
and the enquiry to R on 3 March would not have made a positive difference. This argument 
essentially says Avivas confirmation would have been delayed from 11 March to 16 March if 
CB had queried the asset treatment with R on 3 March. CB also goes on to say the next 
steps in the process could have been delayed to 19 March if there were problems arising 
from what Mr G sought to transfer and what Aviva could accept.
The above argument is flawed in two main respects. First, as I said above, CB should have 
written to both R and Aviva on 3 March as it did. Nothing in my finding about raising the 
asset treatment issue with R on 3 March said or suggested CB should have suspended 
writing to Aviva until after receiving Rs reply. It had no reason to suspend such action  on 
the one hand it would have been seeking clarification of the specific instruction from R and 
on the other hand it was seeking confirmation from Aviva that it was prepared to accept the 
proposed transfer. The facts show that Aviva gave this confirmation without clarification from 
CB on the asset treatment  instead, it was Aviva that informed CB about the asset 
treatment (having been informed by R). As such, evidence shows that CB did not need to 
clarify the asset treatment before writing to Aviva.
The second point to note, is that it is a matter of fact that there was no mismatch between 
what Mr G wanted to transfer and what Aviva could accept, so CBs argument about the date 
of 19 March is unsupported. Aviva would have confirmed acceptance on 11 March, as it did, 
and nothing would have hindered progress into the next steps in the transfer process.
CB says the TRIG framework refers to the allowance of two working days per step, in a 
transfer process. The investigator essentially did the same in finding that, but for CBs failure 
to enquire about the asset treatment on 3 March, the interim payment would have been 
made by 13 March  this being two working days after Avivas acceptance confirmation on 
11 March. I endorse and incorporate this finding, and I have not seen reason why this would 
not have probably been the case.
The investigator gave the same two working days allowance  between 11 and 13 March  
for the instructions from CB to the relevant fund managers. I agree with, and endorse and 
incorporate this too, for the same reasons as above. I also share his findings about the 
additional delays caused by CB  beyond instructing the fund managers late  in terms of 
remitting the cash it received in May and October. The following illustrate this  
Cash received on 7 May appears not to have been remitted to the Aviva SIPP until 
15 May, six working days thereafter.
Most of a cash sum received on 12 May appears not to have been remitted to the 
Aviva SIPP until 22 May, eight working days thereafter.
The proceeds of the Threadneedle holding sale were received on 1 October but were 
not remitted until 7 October, four working days thereafter.
Overall and on balance, I consider that each relevant receipt of cash by CB should have 
been remitted to Mr Gs Avivas SIPP within two working days thereafter. This finding  and 
my treatment of Rs point about release of the sale proceeds by Threadneedle  relate more 
to my provisions for redress (further below). In this section, the point is that CB should have 
instructed the relevant fund managers on 13 March, they would then have taken the same 
time as they took in reality to execute the instructions. Then, CB would have received the 
cash payments and should have sent those payments to the Aviva SIPP within two working 
days (of each receipt). 
With regards to the Threadneedle holding and the funds suspension on 18 March, I consider 
that the fund managers treatment of an instruction received on 13 March would more likely (than not) have been the same as its treatment of the instruction it received on 17 
September. It executed the instruction of 17 September on the same date. I consider it 
would probably have done the same in response to a 13 March instruction and that a sale on 
the same date (13 March) was probable and would have avoided the suspension.
For all the above reasons, I conclude that CB caused delays to the transfer of Mr Gs SIPP 
which affected the interim payment, the fund liquidations and the proceeds that were 
received in the Aviva SIPP, and which in turn  and as I address below  affected his 
reinvestment of the interim payment and proceeds in the Aviva SIPP. The assets transferred 
in specie were not out of the market during the process, so no claim for financial loss arises 
from them. I note Rs argument about the M&G Recovery fund and I address that too below, 
however a point to make in this section is that  other than Rs argument  there appears to 
be no complaint, in terms of financial loss, about the four funds transferred in specie.
Redress
I agree with the award of £200 to Mr G for the trouble and upset he was caused by CB in the 
delayed transfer. I note that CB agrees too. I consider it a reasonable award for the level of 
inconvenience he was caused in the matter and I will order its payment below.
There is enough evidence  in terms of Rs advice to Mr G leading to the transfer, and in 
terms of how the interim payment was used in the interim Aviva portfolio  to show that the 
cash transferred in the process was intended for reinvestment; that it was, in part and as a 
matter of fact, reinvested (in the interim Aviva Portfolio); and that it would have been, as a 
whole and on the balance of probabilities, reinvested but for the delay(s) caused by CB. 
Before developing these findings further, I will address Rs argument about the M&G 
Recovery fund because it stands outside the findings I have just summarised  it was a fund 
designated for in specie transfer, so it was not intended to form a part of the cash transfer.
R's argument is straightforward and is understood. It cites a delay by CB in re-registering the 
holding in the M&G Recovery fund during the in-specie transfer, and R says this delayed the 
planned subsequent liquidation of the fund and reinvestment of the proceeds. The 
investigator acknowledged evidence that R had advised Mr G, in early February (before and 
leading to the transfer instruction in late February), about investing in the Buffettology fund 
and showing an intended absence of the M&G Recovery fund post-transfer. He also 
reflected evidence that the M&G Recovery fund was liquidated in May and that its proceeds 
were reinvested in the Buffettology fund  I shall refer to this as the dual transactions. 
I too have seen and considered the same evidence. Overall and on balance, it is plausible 
that these dual transactions were under consideration between R and Mr G as the transfer 
process began and/or as it was in play. However, a key point that should not be overlooked 
is that up to 16 March (when R confirmed the asset treatment to CB) the expressed intention 
(and instruction to CB) was to transfer the M&G Recovery fund in specie. 
R has given us reasons for this, which it says are consistent with the dual transactions intent. 
Even if I accept Rs reasons, the point above remains undefeated. CB should be judged, 
fairly, in the context of the instruction(s) it was given. The instruction was that the holding in 
the M&G Recovery fund was one of four holdings which were not to be liquidated, but 
instead were to be transferred in specie (with the implication that they were to remain after 
the transfer as they were before it). Reference to its errors in the re-registration process 
therefore does not automatically establish its responsibility for the delay in making the dual 
transactions. It had no awareness that they were planned and, instead, it had an instruction 
to the contrary  that the holding was to be retained post-transfer. 
The above differs significantly from the handling of the fund holdings that CB was instructed to sell and transfer in cash. The instruction in this respect carried the implication and/or 
probability of reinvestment upon completion of the transfer; that would have been known to 
CB; it played a role in defining part of its responsibility to handle the transfer in a timely and 
efficient manner; and it created a basis on which CBs potential responsibility for 
reinvestment related financial loss, if it caused a delay to the transfer, was foreseeable. I am 
not persuaded that the same can be said about the M&G Recovery fund. Overall and on 
balance, I do not consider that CB is responsible for any delay in the dual transactions or 
any loss claimed in relation to them.
I am satisfied with the natural benchmark for redress given to this complaint by the interim 
Aviva portfolio  the interim payment was remitted on 19 March, it was received in the Aviva 
SIPP on 25 March and it (minus a cash retention of around 1%) was invested completely in 
the interim Aviva portfolio on 26 March. In another case, where no natural benchmark exists, 
I could consider an alternative, but that is not necessary at present. Despite the fact that 
interim payment was delayed, it was nevertheless paid and received in March 2020 (the 
same month as the transfer process began) and its use in the interim Aviva portfolio was 
also in March 2020, so the portfolio provides the best available evidence of how Mr G would 
probably have invested all of the transferred and liquidated cash (including the interim 
payment) but for the transfer delays caused by CB. There is also evidence from R showing 
that the interim Aviva portfolio was populated as closely as possible to the allocations that 
had been pre-planned (from early February) for the entire liquidated/cash transfer. This adds 
weight to its suitability as a natural redress benchmark.
Before setting out my redress orders I should address the point raised by R about the delay 
 between 17 September and 1 October 2020  in the Threadneedle fund releasing the 
proceeds of the sale of Mr Gs holding. I understand what R has said about being compelled 
to take the unorthodox approach to instruct the holdings liquidation  it says, CB had 
promised to do so on 16 September but its inaction, as of 17 September, prompted the steps 
it (R) took. The instruction to the fund should have come from CB. Whilst I acknowledge Rs 
good intentions  towards Mr Gs best interest  in taking the step that it took, I am also 
mindful of available evidence showing that also on 17 September CB sent an email to R 
confirming its intention to proceed with the same liquidation instruction the following day (18 
September). It appears that R received this after it had instructed the liquidation earlier on 
the day, so I do not say or suggest that it took that step with knowledge of the email. 
R argues that the complication and/or delay in the fund releasing the sale proceeds was 
CBs fault because it did not instruct the liquidation on 17 September when it should have, 
instead it (R) gave that instruction and the delay would have been avoided if CB had 
instructed the liquidation directly. However, a rebuttal to the argument is that there is 
evidence CB planned to instruct the liquidation on 18 September. CB would say it would 
have done so had R not acted prematurely on 17 September, and that it is R (not CB) that 
took unnecessary action which directly caused the release complication and then delay. It is 
important to take a fair and reasonable approach in determining Mr Gs complaint and whilst, 
I repeat, I acknowledge that R acted in what it considered to be Mr Gs best interest, there is 
evidence that CB intended to do the same a day later  and gave notice of this shortly after 
Rs action. Had R not taken the step it took on 17 September  which it accepts was an 
unorthodox step to take  CB would probably have instructed the sale on 18 September and 
the release complication (and delay) would probably have been avoided. On this basis, I am 
not quite persuaded that CB can fairly be blamed for the release delay in this matter.
Having said the above, redress in relation to this holding is to be based on what would have 
happened if the holding was liquidated prior to the funds suspension on 18 March  so, 
months before what happened between September and October. I do not have evidence 
that says the same scenario from 17 September would have existed in March so, despite my 
finding above that CB cannot fairly be blamed for the release delay between September and October, I do not have a basis to apply the same delay in the redress provisions below. As 
such, I will order below that the remittance method used by the fund in September/October 
should be confirmed, that the time consumed by this should also be confirmed and that the 
same time should be applied as part of the calculation of redress related to this holding. The 
delay caused by the release complication will not be in my order for the reason given in this 
paragraph.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr G as close as possible to the position he would now be in if CB did not 
delay the transfer of his SIPP (as addressed above) to Aviva. I consider that he would have 
behaved differently in terms of the post-transfer re-investments of all the transferred and 
liquidated cash received in the Aviva SIPP, and that he would probably have made all the re-
investments earlier and in line with the interim Aviva portfolio of March 2020. I have 
addressed above the reasons for this finding and the reason for which the interim Aviva 
portfolio serves as the natural benchmark for calculating redress in this case. In this section, 
I will continue to refer to it as either the interim Aviva portfolio or the benchmark. The 
benchmark will be applied over the time periods I will be setting out below, so it must reflect 
how the interim Aviva portfolio has behaved over the same time periods (including any 
changes within it over time and including any relevant transformation, after completion of the 
transfer, into what has become the Aviva SIPPs investment portfolio). 
There is insufficient evidence to reflect liquidation related prices that could have been 
achievable if liquidations happened in or around March 2020, so the provisions below are 
based on the same liquidation values that were achieved in reality. However, the calculation 
must reflect the correct re-investment related prices that would have applied when the re-
investments should have happened (but for the transfer the delays).
I order CB to follow the approach set out above and below in calculating and paying redress 
to Mr G, and I order Mr G to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with CB to provide it 
with all information and documentation, relevant to its calculation (and payment) of redress, 
that it does not already have.
The basis for CBs calculation and payment of redress (to Mr G) is as follows:
The part of the Aviva SIPP to redress is the part, in total, transferred in cash. I refer 
to this as the cash SIPP.
CB must calculate how the entire cash SIPP has performed in reality, from when the 
transferred and liquidated cash payments were received in it to the date redress is 
settled by CB (the end date). This will be the actual value.
The interim payment into the cash SIPP should have been remitted by CB on 13 
March 2020. In reality, this payment was received in the SIPP four working days after 
remittance and it was invested on the fifth working day after remittance. The same 
should be applied, whereby it should be assumed that the interim payment would 
have been invested in line with the benchmark on the fifth working day after 13 
March 2020. CB must calculate how this investment of the interim payment would 
have performed, based on the benchmark, from then and up to the end date. [The 
result is A]
The other part of the cash SIPP was the transferred/liquidated cash, in total, that 
followed the interim payment. In this respect, and with the exception of the 
Threadneedle fund holding, it should be assumed that CB issued instructions to the relevant funds/fund managers on 13 March 2020 and that in each case each 
fund/fund manager took the same time as taken in reality to process and execute the 
liquidation instruction, and to remit the sale proceeds to CB. It should also be 
assumed that, in each case, the proceeds received by CB were paid out into the 
cash SIPP within two working days and that it took the same time as taken in reality 
for the transfers to be received in the cash SIPP. CB must calculate, based on the 
above, when the remitted proceeds in each case would have been received in the 
cash SIPP; it must then calculate how they would have performed, based on the 
benchmark, from the next working day in each case (which is when reinvestment 
would probably have happened, given how the interim Aviva portfolio was reinvested 
the next working day after receipt of funds) and up to the end date. [The result is B]
For the Threadneedle fund holding, CB should assume that it issued instruction to 
the fund/fund manager to liquidate this holding on 13 March 2020 and that the 
holding was liquidated on the same date. CB should confirm the date on which, in 
reality, the fund/fund manager released the proceeds to CB; it should calculate the 
time taken for it to receive the proceeds; it should assume that the proceeds received 
by CB would have been paid out into the cash SIPP within two working days 
thereafter and that it would have taken the same time as taken in reality for the 
transfer to be received in the cash SIPP; it should then add all these time periods to 
13 March 2020 and, for the same reason as stated above, it should assume 
reinvestment of the proceeds would have happened the next working day thereafter. 
CB must then calculate how the money would have performed from then and up the 
end date based on the benchmark. [The result is C]
If the actual value is the same or greater than the sum of A, B and C, no 
compensation is due. 
If the sum of A, B and C is greater than the actual value, compensation is due to     
Mr G. In this case, CB must calculate the difference and that difference will be the 
compensation amount that must be paid to Mr G.
CB should pay the compensation amount into Mr Gs SIPP, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation; the payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief; the compensation should not be paid into his SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance; if the compensation cannot 
be paid into his SIPP, it must be paid directly to him; had it been possible to pay it 
into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable income, so the compensation should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid; the notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age (for example, if he is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the 
current basic rate of tax and if he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation).
CB must pay Mr G £200 for the trouble and inconvenience he has been caused in 
the complaint matter.
CB must provide Mr G with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept a final decision. In Mr Gs case, the complaint event occurred 
after 1 April 2019 (it happened in 2020) and the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 
2020, so the applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and I order Suffolk Life Pensions 
Limited to calculate and pay him compensation as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman