DRN-1787283
 
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is that Pallant Independent Limited (Pallant) received fees for service to 
his overall portfolio in 2018 despite not providing the relevant service. He seeks a refund of 
the fees (with interest).
What happened
Mr L clarified that his complaint relates neither to the platform fees for his investments nor to 
the period of service from Pallant prior to January 2018. He submitted evidence of his 
service agreement with Pallant, signed and dated in May 2011, which confirmed Pallants 
On-going Management and Supervision service and the fee schedule for that service; 
evidence of Pallants covering letter at the time which confirmed the same; and evidence of 
the authority to receive fees given to Pallant. The terms of service included Pallants 
provision of at least one meeting with the client per year (and a summary of and report for 
that meeting), one annual review and advice from a dedicated financial planner.
Mr L says his dedicated Pallant manager/adviser left the firm and was replaced by another 
official in January 2018. Pallant sent notice to him about this at the time. He says the new 
adviser was prematurely presented to him as a regulated individual (when he was yet to be 
authorised at the time) and that the adviser neither made any contact with him nor did he 
provide any service to him. The adviser was substituted by another later in 2018, however 
Mr L says the lack of contact and service from Pallant continued from January to November 
2018 (when the substitute adviser wrote to introduce himself  after which his next contact 
was January 2019). He stresses that throughout 2018 and because of the absence of 
service (and contact) from Pallant he received no advice on his investments and none of the 
service provisions (as mentioned above). He thereafter terminated Pallants service.
Mr L also submitted statement evidence directly from the two relevant sub funds within the 
portfolio to show that Pallant received fees from them during 2018 and into 2019. Initially 
Pallants position was that no such fees were received, it said the relevant fees were directly 
applied by the sub funds providers and not Pallant. However, it thereafter reversed that 
position and conceded an annual management fee (of 0.4%).  It also argued that, for the fee, 
whilst it did not contact Mr L in 2018 it nevertheless continued to manage the funds as it 
previously did and it explained that the adviser introduced to Mr L in January that year was in 
the course of being authorised and was authorised by the next month (February).
One of our adjudicators considered the matter and was initially persuaded by Pallants 
disclaimer about the fees. Upon clarification of the evidence mentioned above and Pallants 
concession that it received the fees, she invited it to address the matter of the service 
provisions (as mentioned above) Mr L was entitled to in 2018. Pallant did not respond and 
the matter was referred to an ombudsman.  Upon my review of evidence in the complaint I 
reached the following preliminary conclusions:
I did not consider that a meaningful detriment to Mr L arose from the matter about 
regulation of the adviser introduced to him in January 2018. Evidence suggests the adviser was in the course of completing his authorisation by the regulator at the time, 
achieved that authorisation shortly thereafter (in February) and he does not appear to 
have provided Mr L with any unauthorised advice in the interim (or thereafter).
Evidence  including Pallants express concession  confirms that Pallant received 
fees (based, it appears, on the annual rate of 0.4%) for the ongoing management 
and supervision of Mr Ls overall portfolio (the two relevant sub funds) in 2018.
Evidence also shows that Pallant was obliged, in 2018 and in relation to the portfolio, 
to meet with Mr L, to provide a report for that meeting, to conduct an annual review 
and to provide him with advice on his portfolio. Mr L says none of these happened 
and existing evidence supports him. Overall and on balance, I concluded that none of 
these services were provided to Mr L in 2018.
I concluded that Mr L did not receive the service for which he incurred fees (and for 
which Pallant received the fees). I was persuaded to award him a refund of the fees 
paid to Pallant from 2018 and £300 for the trouble and upset caused to him in the 
matter.
I shared these preliminary conclusions with the adjudicator and asked her to share them with 
both parties. I invited comments from them, especially Pallant. Pallant was informed that 
unless any such comments were made and altered my view, a decision would be issued to 
uphold the complaint on the basis of the preliminary conclusions. 
Mr L welcomed the preliminary conclusions. Pallant disagreed with them. In the main, it said:
It believes (but does not have actual proof) that Mr L and his complaint have been 
motivated and assisted by the previous adviser that left Pallant in January 2018. That 
adviser left Pallant under difficult circumstances and has since pursued a campaign 
to encourage clients to complain about Pallant.
It questions why Mr L has not complained about Pallants service prior to January 
2018, given that the level of service he received in 2017 (from the previous adviser) 
is arguably comparable to the service he received in 2018.
Its only service omission was that  despite [its] best efforts  it did not meet with 
Mr L in 2018. It tried three times to arrange a meeting (in January and October 2018, 
and January 2019) but Mr L never indicated in response that he had any queries or 
wanted a meeting. It was also incumbent upon him to inform Pallant of any changes 
in circumstances that warranted financial planning advice. He did not do this in 2018.
Mr L has not incurred a financial loss from the matter; he enjoyed a fund related 
discount because of his association with Pallant; he continued to receive investment 
reports directly from the fund providers in 2018; and if there was a performance issue 
with the investments at the time Pallant was in the position to address it.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold Mr Ls complaint 
for the reasons given in my preliminary conclusions. I incorporate those conclusions into my 
findings in this decision.
I address Pallants comments as follows:
As it concedes, there is no available supporting evidence for its belief that Mr Ls 
complaint is part of the alleged campaign by the previous adviser. The complaint has 
been addressed on its own merits and on the basis of available evidence. 
Furthermore, it might be worth noting the first paragraph in the letter sent by Pallant 
to Mr L in January 2018, giving notice of the previous advisers departure. It was 
written by its Chief Executive and his first paragraph included the following  I have 
known [the previous adviser] as a friend for over 15 years and want to wish him well and every success for the future. This does not readily support the claim that the 
previous adviser departed under difficult circumstances. 
I understand that Pallant considers Mr L has been selective in complaining about 
2018 and avoiding a complaint about any previous period because, as it has 
suggested, whilst the level of service was the same he wishes to avoid implicating 
the previous adviser. This point appears to be an extension of the allegation that the 
previous adviser has a role or interest in the complaint  for which, as stated above  
there is no supporting evidence. Mr L is entitled to determine his complaint,  he has 
done so  with specific reference to 2018 (onwards)  and that is the complaint this 
service has addressed. It is arguable that if Pallant concedes that it did nothing 
different in 2018 than in 2017 (or earlier) and if Mr L were to have complained about 
previous periods too, then the outcome could have been an upholding of his 
complaint for all the periods specified (with associated redress) and for the reasons 
given in the preliminary conclusions.
I have not seen evidence of best efforts from Pallant to arrange a meeting with Mr L 
in 2018. I address this further below. First, I note that this argument appears to 
conflict with Pallants overall position that a meeting, advice and/or financial planning 
were options Mr L had available to him throughout 2018 but never requested. If the 
point is that there was no meeting/engagement with him for this reason then it seems 
at odds with the notion that best efforts were made to arrange a meeting with him. I 
also address, directly below, the idea that the above service elements were optional.
As I said in the background section above  The terms of service included Pallants 
provision of at least one meeting with the client per year (and a summary of and 
report for that meeting), one annual review and advice from a dedicated financial 
planner. These were not options, they were minimum requirements of Pallants 
service to Mr L and, in 2018, he received none of these. I accept Pallants argument 
about Mr Ls duty to give notice of changes in circumstances in order to trigger a 
review, but this is not his complaint. His complaint is about not receiving the minimum 
meeting/annual review/annual advice service he was entitled to and did not receive. 
In this context, Pallants points about the fund discount, the fund providers reports 
and it being in a position to address performance issues are also arguably irrelevant. 
Mr L has not complained about these matters and the first two points do not even 
relate directly to Pallants management service provision.
Pallants letter of January 2018 did not seek to arrange the annual review/advice 
meeting. It introduced Mr Ls new adviser  who was not authorised to give advice at 
the time  and said the new adviser will contact him thereafter. Pallant has expressly, 
and previously, admitted that the introduction was the purpose of the letter and that 
the new adviser was not providing Mr L with financial planning advice at the time and 
would not have been permitted to do so (because he was not authorised). No further 
contact (after the letter) from the new adviser appears to have happened. A similar 
sequence applies to the letter of October 2018, in which another new adviser was 
introduced. That new adviser then made contact with Mr L in the following month 
(November 2018) but I have not seen evidence that he sought to arrange the annual 
review meeting and/or that Mr L declined or frustrated such an effort. Overall, 
evidence does not support Pallants claim that it made its best efforts to arrange this 
meeting.
Mr L had no meaningful contact from or engagement with Pallant in relation to the 
management of his funds in 2018. In the absence of the annual review meeting, there 
is also no evidence that Pallant sought, as a compromise, to provide (or provided) a 
remote annual review service. This lack of minimum service is the thrust of Mr L's 
complaint. Pallant received a fee for a service that, in the main, he did not receive  
given that the two relevant sub funds were being run by their respective fund 
providers (not Pallant). The matter is not about a financial loss, it is about Mr Ls 
entitlement to a refund of payment for a service that was not delivered to him.Putting things right
Based on the terms of service document, the list of service provisions under the ongoing 
management and supervision service is mainly as I have summarised above. Mr L received 
none of those services in 2018, so I am persuaded that, in the main, he did not receive any 
meaningful ongoing management and supervision service in 2018. Fair compensation to him 
takes the form of a full refund to him of the fees paid to Pallant in 2018  and up to Mr Ls 
termination of its appointment  for that service.
I order Pallant to accurately calculate the total of all the ongoing management and 
supervision fees it received for Mr Ls overall portfolio (featuring the two relevant sub funds) 
from January 2018 to December 2018 and up to when Mr L terminated Pallants 
appointment. I order Pallant to pay this total amount to Mr L with interest at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from when each fee payment was received by Pallant and up to the date of 
settlement. I also order Paallant to provide Mr L with a calculation of the compensation in a 
clear and simple format.
For the trouble and upset caused to Mr L by being deprived, for around a year, the service 
he was entitled to I order Pallant to pay him £300.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I order Pallant Independent Limited 
to pay him compensation as set out above and to provide him with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman