DRN-3236694
The complaint
Miss K complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) dealt with an overdraft 
increase application.
What happened
Miss K says she received marketing offers from RBS which included an offer to increase her 
overdraft amount. She says she wanted to improve her credit score and so applied for the 
offer. Miss K says her application was refused by RBS despite being given the impression by 
it that her application would be approved. She says she has been misled and is worried that 
any credit score decrease will affect a mortgage application. Miss K would like the search 
removed from her credit file.
RBS says it makes clear before any application that there is no guarantee an application will 
be approved. It says it has to carry out appropriate checks and must lend responsibly. RBS 
says its application process makes clear that a full search will be carried out on a credit file 
and says its records suggest Miss Ks application may not have been completed in any 
event.
Miss K brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought RBS made clear that any application was not guaranteed and that a 
credit search would be carried out. The investigator also thought RBS has a duty to report 
accurate information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and that it was not clear if 
any such information had been reported here.
Miss K doesnt accept that view and says RBS was aggressive in its marketing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont uphold this complaint. I appreciate Miss K will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I have looked at the application process Miss K followed when she applied in June 2021 for 
an overdraft increase. Im satisfied RBS made clear that any application was not guaranteed 
to be approved and that application would be subject to a credit search. Im also satisfied 
that RBS offered a free check which would not impact a credit file. So, I dont think RBS 
misled Miss K or acted unfairly by refusing her application. I dont think its clear if RBS has 
reported the application to the CRAs, but I dont think it would have made a mistake or acted 
unfairly if it has. I would have expected Miss K to have provided evidence from her credit file 
about this issue or at least to have checked it, which I cant see that she has.
I appreciate Miss K says RBSs marketing is aggressive. I make clear to Miss K that we are 
not RBSs regulator and so its not our role to comment on its commercial practices. But I 
can see that Miss K could opt out of any marketing and am satisfied RBS made clear that an 
overdraft application was not guaranteed.
Overall, Im satisfied that RBS made clear that a credit search would be carried out here and 
that Miss Ks application was subject to such searches. I cant fairly order RBS remove that 
search even if it was reported to the CRAs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman