DRN-2160710
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc sent him a letter informing him that if he didn't make a 
transaction on his savings account with them, it would be made dormant. Mr L phoned 
Santander and it told him he had to either make a transaction on the account or go into a 
branch with identification. Mr L thought this was unreasonable.
What happened
Mr Ls savings account has a balance of £18.67 and there have been no movements on the 
account since July 2016. When he received the letter telling him that there needed to be a 
transaction on the account, or it would become dormant he was unhappy and telephoned the 
bank. He is wary about making bank transfers and telephone and on-line banking. His 
nearest Santander branch is quite a way from his home, and he said he wouldnt be able to 
visit the branch for a few months. 
Santander said he would need to make a transaction, or the account would become 
dormant. It then explained what Mr L would need to do to reactivate the account. Mr L was 
unhappy with the identification (ID) suggested by Santander. The bank has, however, since 
suggested alternative documents that could be used.
 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He appreciated Mr L had 
previously provided ID in 2014 but he didnt think Santander was wrong to ask to see ID 
again. This was because asking customers to provide ID is a simple method of ensuring no 
fraud takes place. He also didnt think the account being dormant had a significant impact on 
Mr L. This is because Mr L had explained he didn't use telephone or online banking, so it 
appears to the investigator he would eventually visit his local branch if he wanted to use the 
account anyway. And from what Mr L said, it also didn't seem he needed to make any 
deposits to the account in the short-term.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators view. He referred to an account he had with another 
bank and said this bank hasnt required him to produce identification. He said the 
investigators comments about fraud are specious as Santander already holds copies of 
papers proving his identification which it took in 2014. He thinks Santanders record on fraud 
prevention and compensating customers after fraud has occurred is poor. He doesnt intend 
to visit the branch until some months after the pandemic is over.
The investigator sent a second view. In it he reiterated his view that providing ID wasnt 
much of a burden to Mr L given the way he used his account.
Mr L remains unhappy. He thinks Santander should remove the dormant status of his 
account without him having to visit a branch and apologise for the inconvenience and lack of 
courtesy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling here but Im afraid I dont agree with him. The terms 
and conditions of his account allow Santander to declare his account dormant given the 
length of time of inactivity. They also say that to reactivate the account he will need to go into 
a branch and bring his ID. Santander has explained that it will accept alternative ID if he 
doesnt have a valid passport or driving licence. I think this is reasonable.
The investigator set out quite clearly why he didnt think  given the way Mr L had used the 
account and what he had said about his future intentions regarding the accounts use  that 
Mr L was greatly inconvenienced by the need to bring in ID to a branch. I agree with his 
explanation. Given it is most likely the account wasnt going to have any movement on it 
without Mr L attending a branch it doesnt seem an unnecessary burden to require him to 
bring ID.
I appreciate Mr L doesnt intend to visit a Santander branch anytime soon. He brought his 
complaint before the pandemic, so his complaint isnt as a result of issues arising from it. But 
I can see that the pandemic may make it harder for him to get his account reactivated. I 
thought about this but in the end, I wasnt persuaded that I should require Santander to set 
aside its processes here. The balance of the account is low, and Mr L doesnt seem to 
require the money urgently. 
In all the circumstances of the case I think it is reasonable for Mr L to follow the terms and 
conditions of the account; terms to which he has previously agreed.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman