DRN-3748561
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) asked them 
to pay for the remainder of their policy after cancelling it.
Mr and Mrs W had home insurance in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to 
Mr W.
What happened
Mr W cancelled the home insurance policy because hed moved and didnt need the 
insurance anymore. Hastings cancelled the policy and told Mr W that the outstanding 
premium for the remainder of the policy was due. That was because hed made a claim 
during the policy year which it had paid. Mr W asked Hastings to send him details to look at 
another time.
Hastings sent confirmation to Mr W and followed that up with payment chaser letters. In its 
final chaser letter, Hastings told Mr W that if it didnt receive payment by the given date, the 
debt would be referred to an external debt collection agency (DCA).
Hastings didnt receive payment, so it referred the debt to an external DCA.
Mr W complained to Hastings about the outstanding balance it said he owed, and about the 
debt collection letters hed received from both Hastings and the external DCA. Hastings said 
the policy terms allowed it to seek payment of the outstanding balance, and sent its final 
response letter to Mr W. So, Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Hastings had done anything. He agreed that Hastings had asked 
for payment in line with the policy terms, and that it had followed the correct process to refer 
the outstanding balance to an external DCA. Our investigator didnt think there was anything 
for Hastings to put right.
Mr W didnt agree. He didnt have any further evidence to provide but he asked for another 
opinion. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint.
For clarity, the actual claim which led Hastings to charge for the remaining policy premium is 
not in consideration here. That matter has been dealt with under a separate complaint about 
the underwriter.
My decision is about whether it was fair for Hastings to charge Mr W for the remaining 
premium and whether it was fair to refer the debt to an external DCA. Our investigator also 
confirmed the limitations of this decision to Mr W.
Premium
Hastings said it charged the remaining premium because Mr W had made a fault claim  
one for which it couldnt recover funds from any other party. 
Ive looked at the policy booklet and on page 60 under the heading Cancellation, it states:
No refund of premium will be given if youve made a claim, or if one has been made 
against you, during the period of insurance. If youre paying by instalments, youll have to 
pay the balance of the annual premium.
Mr W made a claim under his policy which the insurer paid, therefore Im satisfied that 
Hastings asked for payment of the outstanding premium in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
I dont think Hastings did anything wrong.
Debt collection
Hastings told Mr W that it would refer the outstanding premium to an external DCA if he 
didnt pay. Ive looked at the process Hastings followed but I cant see any evidence to 
suggest it acted unfairly. Hastings notified Mr W of the amount outstanding and why it was 
due. It sent chaser letters and left voicemail messages. Hastings then notified Mr W of the 
final date to pay, after which it would refer the debt on.
Having decided that the outstanding amount was due, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Hastings to also chase payment of the debt and refer it to an external DCA due to non-
payment. 
Overall, I can understand that Mr W wouldnt necessarily have thought about needing to pay 
the rest of the policy when he moved and cancelled the insurance. So, I can see why it 
wouldve come as an unwelcome surprise. But the requirement to pay in the event that a 
claim had been made is clearly set out in the policy. And it was reasonable for Hastings to 
refer the debt due to non-payment.
Therefore, Ive decided theres nothing for Hastings to put right here.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman