DRN-3276471
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) switched his 
pension holdings from equity funds to its cash fund when he turned 75. He says this was 
contrary to what it had told him it would do. He is also unhappy with the switch date, and 
value, used.
What happened
Mr M had a personal pension with Prudential. The terms of the pension allowed Mr M to 
choose a selected retirement date  when the pension benefits would become due. The 
terms explained that shortly prior to that selected date, the pension funds would be moved to 
Prudentials cash fund. The selected date could be postponed at the plan holders request. 
But the terms explained that the selected date needed to be before the plan holders 75th 
birthday. And if Prudential was not notified of a selected date, it would assume this to be the 
plan holder (Mr Ms) 75th birthday.
Prudential has provided copies of correspondence between it and Mr M from mid-2010. This 
indicates that the selected retirement date was initially Mr Ms 65th birthday. But with that 
date approaching Mr M asked to defer retirement. It was confirmed in that correspondence 
that the selected retirement date had been changed to Mr Ms 75th birthday. The letters 
again indicated that, at age 75, the pension savings would be switched to cash.
Prudential sent Mr M a letter in January 2020, titled Your retirement options. This noted that 
he was approaching age 75 and needed to make some decisions regarding his pension as 
the contract ended at that point. It said, Mr M would lose some options at his 75th birthday 
and be unable to switch between funds after that date. The letter also included a fund value 
illustration, which noted Mr Ms assumed retirement date was his 75th birthday 
(approximately six months from the letter). It also included a message saying Prudential had 
made a change, and said When you took out your plan we said we'd automatically move 
your funds into the Cash Fund on your selected retirement date, but we're no longer doing 
this.
Prudential sent Mr M another letter in May 2020, this time titled Retirement notification. This 
said it needed to speak to him about his plans  reiterating his contract was ending at age 75 
 and noted it had written to Mr M about this previously. The letter again explained he would 
lose some options at age 75, including not being able to switch funds after that point, and 
asked that Mr M contact Prudential as soon as possible. An updated fund value illustration 
was enclosed which again noted an assumed retirement date of Mr Ms 75th birthday. This 
included the same message given previously about the change Prudential had made  that 
the funds would not automatically be moved to cash on the selected retirement date.
On 13 July 2020 Mr M sent Prudential a secure message, in response to its earlier letters. 
He said he held a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with another provider and it was his 
intention to transfer his Prudential pension to his SIPP. But he didnt want to do so at that 
point due to market volatility and wanted to wait and keep his funds invested as they 
currently were. He also mentioned having received a dealing form from Prudential, but that 
this didnt give the option of making any choices regarding when his funds were switched to 
cash, or at what price and asked how he could give instructions about this. In response 
Prudential simply said he could send in a completed form when he decided to transfer the 
fund.
Mr Ms 75th birthday passed, but his Prudential pension remained invested in equities.
In October 2020, Mr M asked Prudential for confirmation of how much of his Lifetime 
Allowance his pension had accounted for on his 75th birthday.
Prudential sent the requested information. It also sent Mr M a separate letter in October 
2020, saying that, because he had reached aged 75, his pension had now been switched to 
its cash fund. It included a statement showing the change. This showed the date of the 
change had been backdated to take place on Mr Ms 75th birthday. And the value of the fund 
used for the switch was the value on Mr Ms birthday, £60,021.34.
Mr M complained to Prudential. He was unhappy that his pension had been moved to the 
cash fund. He said this was done without his authorisation, ignoring the preference he set 
out in his secure message and was in contradiction to what Prudential had said in its letters 
to him.
Prudential said, while Mr M was not obliged to take his pension benefits at age 75, his 
contract was only written to that point. So, it said it hadnt made an error by moving the funds 
to cash at that stage. It said the information sent to him about not automatically switching to 
cash was not applicable to him as he had reached age 75. It acknowledged though that this 
was misleading. And it also accepted it had made an error by not processing the fund switch 
until October 2020  several months after Mr Ms birthday. But it didnt think it was wrong to 
use the unit price from Mr Ms birthday  saying this was the only price and date it could use. 
In recognition of the distress caused by its poor service, Prudential said it would send Mr M a 
cheque for £150.
Unhappy with this response Mr M asked our service to consider his complaint. Initially he 
said he was unhappy that Prudential was enforcing a rule that it had not made him aware of. 
And he felt it had been dishonest in saying the switch automatically happened at age 75  as 
evidenced by this not being carried out until several months later.
One of our Investigators looked into matters but felt the offer made by Prudential was fair.
Mr M did not agree. He said he didnt think the original terms of the agreement were relevant 
given the changes to the pension landscape since. And he said he didnt believe there was a 
rule that required his pension be converted to Prudentials cash fund at the end of the 
contract on his 75th birthday. He also questioned why such a rule would exist if he didnt 
have to take benefits  as hed be able to continue to hold his savings, just not add to them 
at contract end. But if such a rule did exist he said Prudential had lied in the statements it 
had made to him about the fund not switching to cash and he felt its systems were not fit for 
purpose as the switch hadnt happened when it apparently should have.
Our Investigators opinion remained unchanged. So, the matter was passed to me to 
consider and decide.
I asked for additional information from both parties before reaching my decision. This 
included asking Mr M what hed have done differently if the letter he was sent in January 
2020 hadnt indicated his pension savings may not automatically switch to Prudentials cash 
fund.
Mr M said, at the end of 2019, he was aware that his investment with Prudential would have to convert to cash on his 75th birthday. So, he began to make preparations to transfer the 
value to his SIPP and had completed the draft paperwork in January 2020. And he only 
didnt go ahead because of the letter, indicating his savings could stay invested in equities.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 explaining that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and felt that the offer already made by Prudential was fair. Below are extracts from 
my provisional findings, explaining why I thought this.
Mr M said in response to our Investigators opinion that he didnt feel the original terms of the 
contract were still relevant. And he didnt think that there was a term or rule that meant his 
pension savings needed to switch to a cash fund on his 75th  birthday. However more 
recently he has said he was aware at the end of 2019 that such a condition existed, and hed 
begun making plans in the knowledge of this. These statements are somewhat contradictory.
I dont agree with Mr M that the original terms of his pension are not relevant. They form the 
basis of the agreement between the parties.
Mr M has suggested these have been changed and replaced over time. And it is true that 
when a financial product is held for a significant period of time, certain terms are likely to be 
varied. But that doesnt mean original terms are no longer important  particularly if some of 
the terms arent altered.
Here Im satisfied, from the evidence provided, that it was part of the original agreement that 
the contract for Mr Ms pension would end on his 75th birthday. And it was a term of the 
agreement that, on his selected retirement date, or if no selected retirement date was 
chosen on his 75th birthday, when the contract ended, the pension savings would move into 
Prudentials cash fund.
I havent seen anything that suggests either of those terms were varied. And the information 
Ive seen indicates that they were reiterated more recently. The letters from 2010 that Ive 
seen, when Mr M deferred his selected retirement date, talked about moving to the cash 
fund at age 75. And the letters sent in 2020 by Prudential were clear the contract was to end 
on Mr Ms 75th birthday. So, Im satisfied that this was still a condition of Mr Ms pension.
Mr M has said Prudential acted without his authorisation and against his wishes when 
switching his savings to the cash fund. But Im satisfied that Prudential didnt need 
authorisation to make this change, as it was a term of the contract that this would happen. 
And it was executing that term, which formed part of the agreement, when taking this action. 
Mr M has also mentioned that he believes Prudential shouldve elected not to apply this 
term, particularly given the uncertainty caused by the pandemic and the impact this had on 
fund values. But I dont think Prudential was obliged to disregard the term or that it has acted 
unfairly by sticking to it.
So overall Im satisfied that it was always the case that Mr Ms pensions savings were due to 
switch to the cash fund on his 75th birthday, if he hadnt retired prior to that, and I think 
Prudential has acted in line with the agreement when making this switch.
I do however think that Prudential has made errors here.
Prudential acknowledges that it made an administrative error when Mr M reached his 75th 
birthday. This was because it left the funds invested in equities, when they shouldve been 
moved to the cash fund. Prudential has explained this was due to changes it was making to 
its system. I think this explanation is reasonable. And as Ive said, Im satisfied that the 
pension savings should always have moved to the cash fund on Mr Ms 75th birthday.To put this right, when the error was discovered, Prudential switched the savings to the 
correct fund using the values from the date on which this shouldve happened. And I think 
that is fair. I know Mr M is unhappy with this, because of the differing market conditions on 
the two dates, but this is what should always have happened. So, Prudentials actions to 
address this put Mr Ms pension in the position it should always have been in.
The other errors made by Prudential were in the correspondence sent to Mr M in January 
and May 2020. And, in its response to his secure message in July 2020.
The two letters did make it clear that the contract was ending on Mr Ms 75th birthday. But 
they also both said, When you took out your plan we said we'd automatically move your 
funds into the Cash Fund on your selected retirement date, but we're no longer doing this. 
There was no distinction drawn between the contract end date and Mr Ms selected 
retirement date. And the letters didnt caveat the change by saying if the selected retirement 
date was at age 75 this change was not relevant or applicable. I dont think this was a 
distinction or difference Mr M could reasonably have been expected to have remembered  
given how long ago the pension started. So, I dont think Mr M couldve reasonably realised 
this change didnt apply to his situation. And so, I think the information given was misleading 
 which Prudential acknowledged in its final response  and led Mr M to believe his funds 
could stay invested in equities, rather than moving to cash.
This was compounded by Prudentials response to the secure message Mr M sent it in early 
July 2020. In that he said he wanted his funds to remain invested in equities for the 
foreseeable future in the hope that market conditions would improve  and was clear about 
that. But Prudential didnt address this, or say that this would not be possible, which I think it 
should reasonably have done. It simply said Mr M could complete the relevant form when he 
wanted to transfer. And I think the meaning of this was unclear and that it was reasonable for 
Mr M to assume this meant, when he wanted to move his pension savings to cash or his 
fund to another provider. And, Mr M was still, I think understandably, mistakenly under the 
impression that his savings remaining invested in equities beyond his 75th birthday was 
possible and that his pension would remain as he had requested.
So, I think Prudential has not communicated clearly with Mr M  an error on its part. And this 
has led to a misunderstanding about what would happen to Mr Ms pension.
Although misleading information was provided, that doesnt mean that I think Prudential 
shouldve let the funds remain invested in equities beyond Mr Ms 75th birthday. Im satisfied 
that this wasnt an option under the original contract. And although Prudential has provided 
unclear information, that doesnt mean it has to make an incorrect statement true.
But I have had to think about what wouldve happened if Mr M hadnt been given misleading 
information  if no error hadnt happened.
By the time Prudential failed to clarify the situation via secure message in July 2020, there 
was little that Mr M couldve done differently. His pension savings were already scheduled to 
move to the cash fund later that month. And I dont think, hed have done anything differently 
at that stage, if Prudential had corrected the previous misleading information, and his 
pension wouldve converted to the cash fund on his 75th birthday.
Likewise, Im not sure Mr M wouldve done anything differently in May 2020, if the letter sent 
at that point had clarified the earlier mistake. At that time, the value of his fund had fallen 
significantly, due in large part to the pandemic. And I think its likely, had Prudential 
corrected the misunderstanding then, Mr M wouldnt have made any changes at that time  
in the hope that the market might recover prior to his savings moving to the cash fund. So, 
the pension savings again would always likely have moved to cash on his 75th birthday.So, what is left for me to consider is what wouldve happened if the misleading information 
hadnt been provided in January 2020.
Mr M has said he took his main pension and state pension approximately ten years prior to 
the events complained about. He says, at the beginning of 2020, in addition to his Prudential 
pension he also held his SIPP and another small pension. He has said these three plans 
were uncrystallised. And he wanted to keep them that way, and fully invested, for the rest of 
his life for inheritance purposes. Mr M says in January 2020 he was looking at transferring 
his Prudential pension to his SIPP, in the knowledge it would move to cash on his 75th 
birthday. While also intending to transfer his other small pension to his SIPP in February 
2020 (as a transfer would not be possible prior to then while an ongoing dispute was 
resolved). Mr M says the only reason he didnt transfer his Prudential pension in January 
2020, was that he received the letter from Prudential with the misleading information, 
indicating it could remain invested in equities.
Im conscious though that Mr M didnt mention, when complaining to Prudential, that it had 
been his intention to transfer his pension to his SIPP in January 2020. Or that hed begun 
the process and the letter hed received had changed those plans. Nor was that mentioned 
when the complaint was initially brought to our service. Indeed, Mr Ms complaint at times 
has focused on not being aware that his pension savings were going to move to the cash 
fund. And Mr M hasnt been able to provide any documentation to show he was in the 
process of transferring his Prudential pension in January 2020. He has said he disposed of 
this when he decided not to go ahead. But without it, it is difficult to say a transfer would 
have been instigated but for the letter from Prudential. Im also very aware that, from 
January 2020, market conditions became volatile, and the value of Mr Ms pension fund 
began to fall - a trend which continued over the next several months. Which does suggest 
there could be an element of hindsight as to whether this was something he would have 
done.
Mr M has provided evidence to show that his other personal pension was transferred to his 
SIPP in February 2020. But Im aware there were other issues around that pension that 
mayve prompted the transfer. And I dont think this necessarily is enough to say he had firm 
plans to transfer his Prudential pension at the same time.
The secure message Mr M sent to Prudential in July 2020 said he had intended to transfer 
his pension to his SIPP. But that message, as I say, was sent in July, almost six months 
after Mr M has told us he intended to transfer his pension. And it went on to say that the 
reason Mr M had decided to delay was recent market volatility and that he could afford to 
wait to see if his fund value recovered  rather than the letter received being behind the 
decision.
Taking everything into account, I think it is difficult, on balance, for me to say that Mr M had 
firm plans to transfer his Prudential pension in January 2020. So, I cant say that the 
misleading information in the letter Prudential sent caused him to act differently to how he 
otherwise wouldve.Id also add that, even if I did think hed have acted differently, I cant say with certainty that 
he has been caused a loss. The letter Prudential sent with the misleading information was 
dated 29 January 2020 and wouldve been received by Mr M after that date. So, I think its 
reasonable to assume that the transfer would not have taken place before February 2020. 
Prudential has provided evidence that the transfer value of Mr Ms pension on 1 February 
2020 was £65,098.18. And on 1 March 2020 this had fallen to £60,306.69. Given the 
administrative work that wouldve needed to be completed it is likely the transfer wouldve 
taken several weeks. So, this would likely have happened closer to 1 March 2020  with the 
fund value being towards the lower figure (which was not dissimilar to the value that has 
since been moved to Prudentials cash fund, where I understand it has remained and is still 
available to transfer). And the SIPP that Mr M has said he intended to transfer his pension to 
wouldve likely been impacted by the same volatility and value fluctuations as his personal 
pension was.
While I dont think Prudentials errors have led Mr M to act differently than he otherwise 
wouldve done, I do think it was likely upsetting to later find that hed been provided 
misleading information. Prudential offered Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this  and I understand it sent him a cheque for this amount. In the circumstances 
I think that offer is fair. Again, while it wouldve been upsetting to find out some of the 
information hed been given was incorrect, Prudential promptly explained what had gone 
wrong and what the correct position was, once the complaint was made. I know Mr M 
disagreed with what Prudential said but it isnt responsible for the ongoing frustration caused 
by this disagreement. So, in the circumstances, as I think a fair offer has been made, I dont 
currently intend to require Prudential to do anything more.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Prudential said it was satisfied with my provisional findings and had nothing further to add.
Mr M strongly disagreed with my provisional decision. He was unhappy that I had asked him 
what hed have done differently in January 2020 but had decided on balance I didnt agree 
that he wouldve transferred his pension at that time but for the letter Prudential sent. He was 
unhappy with my interpretation of his response and said I had included information that was 
untrue  the reference to an ongoing dispute in respect of his other small pension  as he 
said no such dispute existed. Overall, he felt how Id dealt with this was unfair and that, if I 
was going to reach this conclusion, the question was unnecessary.  So, he thought I should 
remove all references to this from my final decision.
Mr M reiterated he didnt think the original terms of the pension agreement were relevant due 
to changes in legislation  and provided links to articles to support this. And in any event, he 
disagreed with me that there was no evidence of a change to the relevant term, as the letters 
Prudential had sent him had talked about making a change.
Mr M also said, instances where Id given my opinion was pure speculation, should not form 
part of my decision-making process, and showed a lack of knowledge. 
Overall, he remained of the opinion that Prudential had made an error and felt it was in fact 
in breach of contract. So, he considered my provisional decision to be unfair.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of our service is to provide an informal independent review where there is a dispute 
between parties. We look at the information and evidence available and make our findings 
on a fair a reasonable basis. My role in making a decision on the complaint is the same  to 
give my opinion on what is fair and reasonable. This often means deciding and explaining 
what I think on balance is likely  particularly where information is in dispute or incomplete. 
While I understand Mr M considers this to be speculation and disagrees with my 
interpretation of certain information, I dont agree this makes it inappropriate for me to make 
findings on this basis. Ultimately, he has asked our service to look at his complaint and 
provide our independent opinion. 
I understand Mr M is also disappointed that I asked for additional information from him but 
didnt then find in his favour. Again, as part of my role, if I consider additional information is 
required in order to fully and fairly consider the complaint, I can ask either party for this. My 
role is then to consider this information as part of reaching my decision. But that doesnt 
mean I will necessarily agree with the party I have requested information from.
Here I thought additional information was required and that to proceed without asking for this 
wouldve been unfair. While I appreciate Mr M has said he was reluctant to provide this and 
is now very disappointed with my provisional findings in relation to this, I cant agree it was 
inappropriate to ask for the information. And I also dont agree it should not form part of my 
decision  as I consider it relevant to the outcome.
Mr M says Ive invented reference to a dispute between he and the provider of his other 
small pension. And on further review, I accept I was incorrect to refer to it as a dispute. 
When providing information about what he wouldve done differently in January 2020, Mr M 
referred to a saga involving the other pension provider. Im aware of the issues the other 
provider has faced and that it was being taken over at the time.  And I understand now that 
Mr Ms reference to the saga was in relation to the issues the provider itself was facing, 
rather than issues between he and it. So, there was not a dispute between Mr M and the 
provider and the indication I made of a dispute was incorrect, for which I apologise. But, 
overall, this doesnt make a difference to my findings.
All of the information Ive seen confirms that the pension contract between Mr M and 
Prudential was only written to, and was due to end on, his 75th birthday. And the terms and 
conditions Ive been provided indicate that, if a selected retirement date had not been 
chosen prior to his 75th birthday, when he reached his 75th birthday, and the contract ended, 
the pension funds would be switched to being held as cash. And that this was part of the 
contract ending. Im still of the opinion that these terms are important as they form the basis 
of the agreement between the parties. And unless those terms were changed, I think 
Prudential was right to act in line with them.
Mr M has disputed that there is no evidence that those terms changed as the letters sent by 
Prudential in January and May 2020 said it had made a change. So, he thinks this 
evidences that the terms were altered, and Prudential has acted in breach of contract.  But 
Prudential has explained that those letters were in relation to what would happen at the 
selected retirement date if one had been chosen before the contract ended. Not what would 
happen when the contract ended, at 75, if no selected retirement date had been chosen. 
And so, I dont agree that the letters Prudential sent show that the relevant terms  that the 
contract ended at age 75 and, at that point at the end of the contract, that the fund would be 
transferred to cash  were amended.Mr M has again referred to numerous changes in pension regulations. And I again 
acknowledged there have been significant changes to relevant legislation. But once again I 
havent seen anything that suggests any of these changes meant the contract between Mr M 
and Prudential did not end at age 75 or that, when it ended, Prudential was not able to act in 
line with the agreed terms, and transfer the fund to cash.
So, I remain of the opinion that Prudential has acted correctly when saying the pension 
needed to be transferred to cash as a result of Mr M reaching his 75th birthday. And I dont 
agree it is in breach of contract.
As I said in my provisional findings, I accept that Prudential made mistakes. The transfer to 
cash was not processed when it shouldve been. But by subsequently backdating this 
transfer, Prudential has put the account in the position it should always have been in.
And the information given by Prudential about the change it had made was unclear. But that 
doesnt mean Prudential needs to make incorrect or unclear information true or do 
something that it wouldnt otherwise have done. Rather I have to look at the impact of that 
information. 
Mr M has reiterated that it was his intention to transfer his Prudential fund to his SIPP in 
January 2020 and it was only because of the contents of the letter Prudential sent him that 
he didnt do so at the time. And he is unhappy I have suggested this was with the benefit of 
hindsight and felt it was reasonable that he had not retained any documentation that 
supported this. And I agree, I wouldnt necessarily have expected him to keep paperwork 
hed filled for a transaction he chose not to complete. But, as I explained in my provisional 
findings, I havent seen anything to show that potentially transferring his money away from 
Prudential to a SIPP was mentioned at all prior to July 2020. So while I know this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr M, for the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I still 
dont think I can say on balance that a transfer would have taken place, but for the unclear 
information provided by Prudential.
And with that in mind, I remain of the opinion that the offer made by Prudential in respect of 
the distress caused by its errors is fair in the circumstances of the complaint. So, I dont 
require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman