DRN-2831723
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim she 
made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs S took out a Premier single trip travel insurance policy through a broker. 
The insurance was intended to cover a European package holiday shed booked through a 
travel provider. Mrs S planned to travel between 4 and 11 August 2020. Shed paid a deposit 
of £400 to the travel agent at the time she booked the holiday and the balance was due to be 
paid on 12 May 2020.
However, in May 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs S decided against paying 
the balance of the trip and instead decided to cancel her holiday. She said she had health 
concerns which meant she might be vulnerable to the virus. And she said that even if the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) was allowing travel abroad by the time of the trip 
and the holiday could go ahead; she still wouldnt have wanted to travel. She made a claim 
on her travel insurance policy for her lost deposit.
Great Lakes turned down Mrs S claim. It said the cancellation section of her policy didnt 
cover her circumstances. And it also said that the policy didnt cover a policyholders 
disinclination to travel.
Mrs S was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs S complaint should be upheld. She considered the terms of 
Mrs S policy and she didnt think they covered Mrs S situation. She also noted that if Mrs S 
had paid the balance of her holiday cost to the travel provider and the trip had had to be 
cancelled as a result of Covid-19, Mrs S wouldve been entitled to a full refund from the 
provider. So while she sympathised with Mrs S position, she thought Great Lakes had been 
entitled to turn down her claim.
Mrs S disagreed. She felt the investigators opinion was unfair. She questioned how she 
could be covered for Covid-19 when it hadnt been known about when she booked her trip.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn 
down her claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs S policy and the circumstances of her claim, when deciding whether Great 
Lakes handled her claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mrs S policy, as these form the basis of her contract with 
Great Lakes. Mrs S cancelled her holiday, so I think it was appropriate for Great Lakes to 
consider her claim under the cancellation section of the policy. This says:
We will reimburse up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Benefits (for the cover level 
as shown on Your Policy Certificate) in total under this policy for financial loss You suffer, 
being non-refundable deposits and amounts You have paid for travel and accommodation 
You do not use because of Your inability to commence travel or complete the trip.
Unforeseen illness, injury or death of You, a Close Relative or any person with whom 
You have arranged to travel or stay during the Trip.
You abandoning Your Trip following the cancellation of or a delay of more than 12 
hours in the departure of Your outward international flight, sea-crossing, coach or 
train journey, forming part of the booked Trips itinerary, as a result of Strike or
Industrial Action (of which You were unaware at the time You either booked the Trip 
or purchased this policy, whichever is the latest), adverse weather conditions, or the 
mechanical breakdown of, or accident of, the aircraft, sea vessel, coach or train.
You or any person with whom You plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or 
being subpoenaed as a witness in a court of law (other than in a professional or 
advisory capacity).
If You are made redundant and You qualify for redundancy payment under current 
legislation.
Your Home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable 
(including if Your presence is required by the Police in connection with such events), 
up to 7 days before the commencement of Your Trip.
Your compulsory quarantine.
You or Your travelling companion having agreed leave subsequently cancelled by the 
emergency services or armed forces, for operational reasons. This cover does not 
apply to cancellation of leave due to war, invasion, acts of terrorism, hostilities 
(whether war be declared or not), civil unrest, revolution, rebellion, act of foreign 
enemy or any similar event.
The cancellation section of the policy also sets out specific things which Great Lakes doesnt 
cover. One of these says:
Any disinclination to travel or continue travelling, unless Your change of travel plans is 
caused by one of the circumstances listed under What is Covered.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs S has said about the reasons for cancelling her trip. I 
appreciate she has health conditions which may make her more at risk of Covid-19 and so I 
can understand why she may not have wanted to travel. Especially as in May 2020, travel 
plans remained uncertain and it wasnt clear whether international travel would be permitted 
by August 2020. But having considered the terms of the policy, I dont think it was unfair for 
Great Lakes to conclude that the circumstances of Mrs S claim simply werent covered by the cancellation section of the policy. While she was concerned about the impact of Covid-19 
on her health, I dont think I could fairly find that Mrs S was suffering from an unforeseen 
illness.
Ive also borne in mind that Mrs S told Great Lakes that even if restrictions were lifted by the 
time she was due to travel, around four months later, she still wouldnt have wanted to travel. 
While I sympathise with her position, I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to find 
that the reason Mrs S cancelled her holiday was because she was disinclined to travel. This 
means her claim is specifically excluded by the policy terms. 
Theres no dispute that at the time Mrs S took out the policy and booked her trip, Covid-19 
wasnt known about. The circumstances of Covid-19 have been unique and unprecedented. 
But Mrs S claim simply isnt covered by any section of her policy. And I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to direct Great Lakes to cover the claim in the circumstances of this 
case for the reasons Ive outlined above. So I think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down 
Mrs S claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman