DRN-1256856
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
When this policy was sold, Canada Square Operations Limited was trading as Egg. So to 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Egg in this decision. 
What happened
In 1999, Mr H applied for a credit card online and at the same time was sold PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree with the 
adjudicators decision, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
This was an internet sale, where Mr H would have been able to complete the application in 
his own time and at his own pace. Egg has provided some screen shots taken from its 
standard online application process in use at the time. And it has provided copies of the 
electronic records it has retained which are specific to Mr Hs application. This service has 
also seen details of many other Egg credit card applications from around this time. 
So from all this information, I think I can be reasonably certain about what Mr H would have 
seen on his screen when he made his application. This would have included a screen about 
PPI where, in order for him to progress further with his application, he would have had to 
select one of two equally prominent options:
Yes, I would like to protect my repayments against accident, sickness and 
unemployment or
No, I do not wish to protect my repayment
 
Eggs electronic records indicate that Mr H selected to take the PPI cover offered.
Egg has also provided copies of some of the monthly credit card statements which Mr H 
would have received. And I can see that the PPI charged to his account is shown quite 
clearly on these statements on a separate line next to the heading Credit Card Repayment 
Protector. And I think Mr H is likely to have queried with Egg why he was being charged for 
this if the PPI had been added without his knowledge or agreement.So having carefully considered all the information available to me, I think its most likely that 
Mr H actively chose to take the PPI, knowing that he had a choice.
As this was not an advised sale, Egg didnt need to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable 
for Mr H. But it still needed to give enough information for Mr H to decide, himself, if he 
wanted to take it. The screen shots which Egg has provided show that a summary of the key 
aspects of the policy would have been available to Mr H when he was completing his 
application, including the policys cost. Nevertheless, I think the information Egg provided 
could have been better than it was. For example, it could have made it clearer that the PPI 
premiums would be added to his account balance and, therefore, might attract interest. But I 
dont think that better information would have changed Mr Hs mind about taking the policy. I 
say this because:
Mr H appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
Mr H says that he didnt need the PPI cover because at the time he was eligible for 
generous sick pay and also thinks he had some savings. But this policy would have 
paid out in addition to his other mean and, potentially, for longer than his sick pay 
would have been paid in full. It would also have meant he could have used any 
savings he had for other essential expenditure that might be needed whilst he was 
unable to work. And he chose to take out the cover so it seems like he wanted this 
type of protection. So I still think that he would have found this extra cover useful if 
things had gone wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr H. And as the premiums 
were charged monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
 
So from what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr H has lost out by anything that Egg may have 
done wrong when it sold this PPI to him.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Canada Square Operations Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman