DRN-3039967
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was misled by American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL)
campaign map and spent a significant amount of time trying to report the mistake.
What happened
Mr K says he wished to take advantage of AESELs campaign to support small shops. He
says he went to a shop shown on AESELs shop locator map but when he arrived at the
shop was told it didnt accept an AESEL account card. Mr K says he then tried to report the
mistake on a number of occasions to ASESL but couldnt get through to it. He says he was
misled by AESEL and the mistake has caused inconvenience and distress. Mr K would like
AESEL to accept its mistake and update its map as well as pay him at least £50
compensation.
AESEL says the map is intended for general use and it makes clear it may not be 100%
accurate and that customers should make checks with the business itself. It also says its
account terms and conditions also make that clear and says it doesnt accept liability for any
mistakes. AESEL says it has no record of Mr Ks calls but has paid £20 as a gesture of
goodwill.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and says AESEL must be infringing some laws or
regulations. Our investigator upheld the complaint and accepted what the terms and
conditions and the disclaimer said. But also thought that AESEL hadnt been clear that a
business may not accept an AESEL account card. The investigator recommended AESEL
pay £5 compensation for the missed offer and £15 compensation for the trouble and upset
Mr K was caused. And thought the £20 goodwill gesture appropriate.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and says the mistake goes back to December 2020 and his
inconvenience and distress was significant. He says it is unfair to wait so long for a decision.
AESEL hasnt replied to the investigators view.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and said as follows.
I looked carefully at AESELs shop locator map and could see that there was a prominent
warning that the map is for general use, may not be 100% accurate and that AESEL isnt
responsible for inaccuracies. I appreciated what the investigators said, that the map doesnt
say businesses listed may not accepts an AESEL account card. But I was satisfied that the
disclaimer makes clear that the map cant be relied on to be completely accurate and that
AESEL doesnt accept liability for mistakes.
I appreciated Mr K was caused inconvenience here, but I said that doesnt mean AESEL 
was at fault. And I thought AESEL also made that clear in the account terms and conditions 
that the map may not be accurate and that a customer should check with the business itself. 
So, I didnt think provisionally AESEL acted unfairly or made a mistake and I also thought it 
acted in line with the account terms and conditions as well as the disclaimer on the map.
I also appreciated Mr K says he was caused significant distress as a result of what took 
place. I said I was sorry to hear that, but I couldnt see why, what took place should have 
such an impact on Mr K. And I made clear that whilst I accepted, he was caused 
inconvenience as a result of attending the shop in question, it doesnt follow that AESEL was 
responsible for that under the terms of its disclaimer and terms and conditions.
I said I couldnt be sure why AESEL hasnt got a record of Mr Ks calls. I appreciated that 
isnt the main part of Mr Ks complaint, but I was satisfied AESEL acted fairly by paying what 
I thought was a fair and reasonable goodwill gesture.
I made clear to Mr K that we are not AESELs regulator and so its not our role to direct it to
apologise for what took place even if I upheld this complaint. I appreciated Mr K says AESEL
must have infringed laws or regulations. But I said it would be for a court to decide such 
matters and I made clear that I thought AESEL has made clear the map was not guaranteed 
to be completely accurate.  I explained we also dont generally award compensation based 
on delay as Mr K suggests.
Overall, I was satisfied that AESEL made clear on the map and in the terms and conditions
that its not responsible for any mistake in the map or for the accuracy of information. I didnt
think it unreasonable for customers that wished to take advantage of AESELs promotion to
check with any business, if it accepted an AESEL account card.
AESEL has replied to my provisional decision and accepts it.
Mr K hasnt replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman