DRN-4070729
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a payment she made as part of a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons: 
Although its accepted Miss T was the victim of a scam, its not disputed she made 
this payment. So the starting position, in line with the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, is that shes liable for it. 
Ive considered whether Monzo couldve reasonably prevented her loss, given its 
obligations to look out for unusual or otherwise suspicious payments that might 
suggest shes at risk of fraud. 
Given the value of the disputed payment (£150) was in keeping with her spending at 
the time, and that Miss T had used PayPal to pay for things in the past, I dont think 
this payment looked out of character. So I think it was reasonable Monzo didnt 
detect a fraud risk  and simply processed the payment in line with Miss Ts 
instructions.
As well as considering whether Monzo ought to have prevented Miss Ts loss, Ive 
considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. Miss T submits that 
Monzo shouldve raised a chargeback, as it was in time to do so. I accept thats the 
case, but I agree there still wasnt reasonable prospects of this claim succeeding. 
Thats because she paid using the friends and family option, which isnt covered by 
PayPals purchase protection. So I think it was fair that Monzo didnt raise this claim. 
In saying this, Ive noted Miss Ts point that PayPal told her theyd honour a claim if 
Monzo raised it. But given this is at odds with PayPals stated policy, I dont think it 
was unreasonable that Monzo didnt rely on this. 
Its also unclear to me why PayPal would need a chargeback to refund Miss T, given 
that chargebacks are to be used when things cant be resolved between her and the 
merchant  theyre not to facilitate a refund when its agreed one should be given. 
Indeed, I note theres a suggestion that PayPal has given her credit, meaning theres 
a question over Miss Ts remaining financial loss here too. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss T. But Im not persuaded Monzo is at 
fault for failing to stop, or recover, her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman