DRN-1766027
 
Complaint
Mrs O, who is represented by a third party, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her 
a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in May 2000 when she took 
out a personal loan. 
Background
Mrs O says that the PPI was added to her loan account without her knowledge and was 
never explained to her. She also says she didnt need it. 
The loan, which Mrs O says was to help her buy a car, was for £1,200 and repayable over 
36 months. The PPI premium was £180.21.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld because Mrs O was an agency 
worker at the time she took out the policy. 
But in my provisional decision dated 23 March 2020 I explained why I disagreed with the 
adjudicators finding that the PPI had been mis-sold. I set out an extract below:
HSBC has referred us to the PPI policy document. This says that someone who has been 
working on a fixed term contract for at least two years with a contract that has been renewed 
will still be covered by the policy and be able to put in claim. Given that it looks as if Mrs O 
had been working under the same arrangement with an agency for at least 3 years before 
she took out the PPI, HSBC considered this to be a renewable or rolling type of contract. 
That means under the policy terms she wouldnt be prevented from making a potentially 
successful claim on the policy if she wasnt able to work. 
We asked Mrs O to provide us with details about her agency work. She told us that she 
worked a 37-hour working week but wasnt sure what type of contract she had. When we 
asked her for more details about her work she told us the contract was ongoing and that 
she worked on a temporary basis. 
From what Mrs O has told us, I consider its likely she was working on a fixed term contract 
that was renewable or rolling. So she would be covered under the policy and it would be 
possible for her make a successful claim. 
It follows that from what Ive seen and from what Mrs O has told us that I currently think the 
PPI wasnt mis-sold. But it remains open to Mrs O (and HSBC) to come back to me by the 
date given above with any further evidence or information.
Copies of my provisional decision were sent both to Mrs Os representative and HSBC.
HSBC has responded to my decision saying it has nothing further to add. 
Ive had no response back from Mrs O or her representative. My findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Os case.
Given that Ive not received any new evidence or information back from either party I see no 
reason to add anything to the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
And from my review of all the available evidence and information about the sale, and taking 
into account what Mrs O and HSBC told us, Ive not seen anything else to make me think the 
PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman