DRN-2379324
The complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, have not fairly compensated 
her for delays in receiving a refund for cancelled flights. 
What happened
Miss H had flights booked through a travel agent, which were cancelled due to the current 
coronavirus pandemic. They were paid for using a Halifax debit card. 
When she hadnt received a refund or any reassurances from the agent, she contacted 
Halifax to see if they could help. In situations like this Halifax can raise a dispute, as Miss H 
had not received a refund and the flights had been cancelled through no fault of her own. 
Halifax told her that they would investigate the refund and they disputed the transaction with 
the agent following the call.
A few days later when Miss H had still not received a refund, she contacted Halifax again to 
complain. She said she was especially unhappy as they knew the impact it was having on 
her as she was pregnant and suffering from anxiety. 
Halifax acknowledged that it should have provided Miss H with a temporary credit when the 
dispute was raised a few days earlier. This is something that can be done as they await the 
refund from the merchant. It offered Miss H £100 for the trouble and upset caused and £40 
compensation for the calls that she had made to chase this. They also told Miss H that they 
would provide her with the temporary credit. 
Miss H did finally receive the refund a few days later, but directly from the merchant. She 
had called Halifax in the meantime to chase this and raise a new complaint, which I cant see 
Halifax responded to, so she came to our service. 
Halifax subsequently increased its offer by £50, to acknowledge the further delay Miss H 
experienced. Our investigator looked into matters and thought that the offer was fair and 
recognised the inconvenience and poor service that Miss H had faced. 
Miss H disagrees. She says she had to chase the refund with Halifax on many occasions 
and that it was the merchant who finally refunded the amount. She doesnt feel the offer 
recognises her circumstances at the time, which she says Halifax were aware of. 
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss H that I think the offer that Halifax has made is a fair 
outcome here. So, I wont be asking them to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Halifax has acknowledged that they should have provided Miss H with a temporary credit for 
the refund amount when she first called them to raise the dispute. If they had done so, Miss 
H would have received approximately £1,250, probably more than a week earlier than she 
did. 
Miss H has also explained that this was a difficult time for her. There was an ongoing 
pandemic and she was pregnant and suffering from anxiety. So I have no doubt that this 
caused further upset and worry for her. However, I believe that the offer of £150 for this is 
fair in the circumstances. It takes into account the amount of time that the refund was 
delayed by and the impact this will have had on Miss H. 
On top of this, Halifax has offered Miss H a further £40 compensation. This is to recognise 
the high number of calls she had to make to chase the refund. Again I think this amount is 
fair in the circumstances. 
I know Miss H will be disappointed with the outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Halifax  can do for her.
  
My final decision
Halifax has already made an offer to pay Miss H a total of £190 to settle this complaint, and I 
think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Bank of 
Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, should pay Miss H £190, if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman