DRN-4293784
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard ignored her payment 
proposal and they provided her with poor customer service.
What happened
Mrs S says that she wrote to Barclaycard to let them know there was a change in her 
financial circumstances, and she told them she could no longer keep up with her repayments 
of £224 a month. She made a temporary offer of £100 per month along with a request to 
suspend any interest or other charges until her circumstances improved. Mrs S says she 
also sent Barclaycard details of her outgoings. But she says the response she received was 
pre-scripted, so she wrote to them again. 
Mrs S says Barclaycard seem to have a thing where she needs to ring them to discuss her 
arrears, however, she told them in no uncertain terms she wouldnt discuss her personal 
situation over the phone. Mrs S has told us of a health condition which affects her using a 
telephone. She says she hasnt told Barclaycard about this as this is no concern of theirs. 
Mrs S says she told Barclaycard to stop ringing her and sending her text messages and she 
has blocked these, but she considers this to be a breach of the Disability Discrimination Act 
(DDA) by them not respecting her wishes to contact her via these methods. Mrs S says that 
she believes Barclaycard arent treating her fairly and they arent acting in line with the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) rules when dealing with customers in financial 
difficulty. Mrs S made a complaint to Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard did not uphold Mrs S complaint. They said as the Executive Office Complaints 
team is not part of the Financial Assistance team, they were unable to take any action, and 
they gave Mrs S telephone numbers to call. In a follow up response Barclaycard said due to 
security purposes, they were unable to communicate about her finances by email. 
Barclaycard said they tried to ring Mrs S in relation to her complaint between 5-20 December 
2022 as her complaint letter didnt request for no calls to be made to her. They said if there 
was a health reason why she couldnt speak with them over the phone, they could make 
arrangements for a third party to be with her after they first identify her, gain permission that 
they can speak to a third party and continue with the conversation. Mrs S brought her 
complain to our service. The account was subsequently passed to a debt management 
company (DMC) and the account defaulted.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs S complaint. He said Barclaycards process is for their 
customers to complete an income and expenditure (I&E) form in the circumstances, and they 
tried to accommodate Mrs S needs by advising her to complete the form on their website if 
she didnt want to speak on the phone. Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. She made a number of points. In summary, she said she received unfair 
treatment as Barclaycard failed to respond to her other than by edited scripted letters which 
failed to address her situation and a refusal to respect her wishes not to be phoned and they 
wouldnt give her a meaningful response. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Mrs S has complained that Barclaycard has broken the DDA. In other words, she says 
Barclaycard has breached the Equality Act 2010 as this replaced the DDA 1995. Ive taken 
the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law 
 but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mrs S 
wants a decision that Barclaycard has breached the Equality Act 2010, then shed need to 
go to Court. However, based on what Mrs S has said in relation to Barclaycard 
discriminating against her, I am not persuaded that Barclaycard treated Mrs S any differently 
to other customers in similar situations, and I will explain why.
Mrs S has told us that she didnt notify Barclaycard of any health conditions that she had as 
this was no business of theirs. And of course, it is her right to not share this information with 
Barclaycard. As she doesnt want Barclaycard to know about anything to do with her health, 
Ill be purposely vague regarding what shes told us about this point  although I can assure 
Mrs S Ive read everything shes shared with us. But because Barclaycard havent been told 
about any personal circumstances that might impact the way Mrs S banks with them, theyve 
not had the opportunity to establish whether they need to make any reasonable adjustments.
Although Mrs S was clear in her communications that she didnt want to speak to 
Barclaycard over the phone about any arrangement, Barclaycards normal process is that 
they speak to their customer over the phone to understand their financial situation in detail in 
order to look at the best solution for their circumstances. As this is a commercial decision for 
Barclaycard to make, then it is not within this services remit to tell Barclaycard how they 
should communicate with their customers who say they are suffering financial difficulty. 
Ive considered what Mrs S has said about sending Barclaycard her I&E details. Neither 
Barclaycard nor Mrs S have provided me a copy of this. But Barclaycard have provided a 
system note regarding this document. The system note is date stamped on 1 November 
2022 and shows Mrs S sent them a letter dated 23 October 2022. It shows Mrs S made an 
offer of £100 per month, but it states there is £428 a month of disposable income. 
The system note shows that the I&E detail is incomplete. Its not clear based on the note, 
whether Barclaycard believed there was a need to agree to a reduced payment when the 
I&E form showed £428 a month disposable income, or that they believed the I&E form was 
incomplete on the basis of the disposable income. 
I have seen the letter Mrs S sent them on 23 October 2022 and this doesnt mention 
anything about phone calls. It asks Barclaycard to consider reducing or suspending 
interest/charges during her financial difficulties. In response to this Barclaycard wrote to 
Mrs S and informed her that her account would be placed on hold with interest and fees 
suspended until 14 November 2022. The letter asks Mrs S to call them to discuss her 
options. Im satisfied that this was a proportionate response in light of the letter Mrs S 
originally sent them. I say this because Barclaycard would need to understand Mrs S 
circumstances in detail before agreeing to an arrangement with her.
In the next letter that Mrs S sent Barclaycard, this is where she tells them that she is 
unwilling to discuss this (and other personal matters over the phone). She also reiterates 
what she said previously about the amount she could repay, and she asked for a suspension 
or reduction in interest/charges.While Barclaycards letter to Mrs S asks her to contact them so they could talk through her 
I&E, they also said that alternatively she could complete an electronic version of the I&E 
form, and they gave her a specific email address to send this to. Barclaycard have confirmed 
that they didnt receive any emails from Mrs S at this email address. Barclaycard have said 
they would have been able to communicate with her via email without the need for a phone 
call (once security measures had been met such as her providing certified copies of her 
identification for verification to be completed). So, although Mrs S had a route to 
communicate through with Barclaycard without a telephone call, she doesnt appear to have 
done what she was asked to do here.
Mrs S wrote to Barclaycard on 28 November 2022 where she reiterated that she asked them 
to freeze interest and not add any charges to her account and asked them to reconsider this. 
Barclaycard replied on 20 December 2022, to say they werent able to suspend the interest 
and gave her the telephone number of their financial assistance team. But Im persuaded 
that Barclaycard should have done more here.
It should have been clear to Barclaycard at this stage that Mrs S had asked a number of 
times for the interest/charges to be suspended or reduced and that she wasnt wanting to 
discuss her finances over the phone. This would have been a good opportunity for 
Barclaycard to explain to Mrs S that the I&E details were incorrect/showed disposable 
income that would appear she could meet the payments without them being reduced, or to 
reiterate the email address that she could have used to start the lines of communication with 
them. They could have set out what identification that Mrs S would need to provide to them 
to use this channel and I think this would have assisted her. Little or no consideration had 
been given to the history of what had happened so far. 
This meant Mrs S wrote to Barclaycard on 8 January 2023, informing them again that she 
wouldnt speak to them over the phone. She told them as part of this letter not to contact her 
by phone or text message and she wasnt being treated fairly by Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard again missed an opportunity to try and resolve matters as part of their response. 
But this appears to be the first time that they directly addressed Mrs S request not to speak 
over the phone with them as they mentioned if she was unable to speak over the phone due 
to lack of privacy, then they could make arrangements for her to be contacted at an agreed 
time so they could ensure she was on her own, or if there was a health reason why she 
couldnt speak to them over the phone, they could make arrangements for a third party to be 
with her. Im not persuaded any of these wouldve been suitable for Mrs S as there were no 
privacy issues and she mightnt want a third party to know her finances, especially as she 
said she was having financial difficulties. 
They also told Mrs S that due to security purposes, they were unable to communicate with 
her about her finances by email. But that contradicts their earlier letter and what Barclaycard 
have told me about them being able to accept documents through email, and her being able 
to email the email address they gave her on 17 November 2022.  
I cant say what would have been agreed  if anything if Mrs S had completed the I&E form 
that Barclaycard asked her to complete. I know she did send her own financial statement 
prior to this, but based on the system note, this showed Mrs S had enough disposable 
income to meet her minimum payment. So based on this financial statement, its unlikely that 
Barclaycard would have agreed to the reduced payments or suspended/reduced 
interest/charges on this alone. 
So, I do think that a new I&E form was needed; and Mrs S was told she could complete the 
specific I&E form they signposted her to and email this to them. While an arrangement may 
have been able to have been agreed after this process, Im not persuaded that it would have prevented a default from being registered. I say this because Mrs S was paying less than 
50% of her contractual payment, and then she made payments of £10 a month which was 
substantially lower than her minimum payment. So, she would have been unlikely to have 
been able to clear the arrears in a timely manner based on her circumstances at the time.
Ive considered that Barclaycard rang Mrs S even though she said she didnt want to speak 
to them over the phone. The phone calls were in relation to her complaint and not her 
financial difficulty. Mrs S had not told them of any health issues, so they werent aware of 
this. There were five attempts to contact her about her complaint between 16-20 December 
2022. Barclaycard say that on Mrs S complaint letter she didnt ask them not to ring her. 
Mrs S probably didnt feel the need to tell them this especially as she had previously told 
them that she didnt want to discuss matters over the phone, but I think they should have 
been aware that Mrs S didnt want to speak to them over the phone. There is no regulation 
to say a company must ring someone five times as part of a complaint outcome. 
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. It would not be 
proportionate for me to ask Barclaycard to refund any fees/interest during the time that Mrs 
S says she was in financial difficulty. I say this because I cant say for certainty that this 
would have happened if Mrs S did fill in the I&E form that Barclaycard asked her to 
complete, especially based on her previous financial statement she sent them showing a 
disposable income more than her minimum repayment. I also wont be asking Barclaycard to 
take back ownership of the account. This is because Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
of the account online, and they show that We may also sell your debt on to another 
organisation. So, Barclaycard would be able to pass the debt to another organisation such 
as a DMC.
But I do think Barclaycard have let Mrs S down on occasion. I say that as they could have 
been clearer on the actions Mrs S could have taken especially after she reiterated not 
wanting to speak over the phone and to suspend interest/charges and pay £100 a month on 
a number of occasions. They could have either tailored their communication to her, 
explaining why they couldnt accept the financial statement which she sent them as opposed 
to just asking her to fill in their I&E form and especially when they sent bespoke letters to her 
they could have made the requirements for the email communication clear, instead of 
constantly asking her to phone them. 
Barclaycard should have been aware of the previous communication between Mrs S and 
themselves and not rang her five times (although Ive seen no evidence they continued to 
call her after she specifically told them she would consider this to be harassment). Im also 
persuaded Barclaycards response was contradictory when they said they couldnt 
communicate via email, yet previously gave her an email address to send sensitive data to, 
such as the I&E form. 
So, Im persuaded that Barclaycard caused Mrs S distress and inconvenience regarding the 
matters Ive highlighted in the previous paragraph. They could have been clearer to Mrs S 
which may have helped her situation at the time. But I also need to be mindful that they 
werent aware of any health situation Mrs S has. But based on the distress and 
inconvenience that Barclaycard caused Mrs S, which could have been prevented, Im 
persuaded that they should pay her £150 compensation for the impact these issues had on 
her. So, it follows I intend to ask Barclaycard to put things right for Mrs S.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclaycard accepted the provisional decision. Mrs S responded to the provisional 
decision. She said Barclaycard requested that she complete their I+E form which she could 
access from her account, but when she tried to do this, she found that her online account 
had been blocked and a message was displayed which asked her to ring them. She says she used a third party form which was supposed to be self-calculating, but upon checking 
the figures shown, she found a discrepancy which showed to be a disposable income of 
£329, which was incorrect as out of her £870 a month income, she had £1,066 of monthly 
outgoings, leaving a shortfall of £196. She said at no point did Barclaycard make any 
comment or reference to these figures. Mrs S sent us the I+E form.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs S has said about the third party form, and I thank her for 
forwarding this to me. But Im not persuaded that Barclaycard received a copy of the form 
Mrs S sent me. There is nothing from the evidence Ive looked at which relates to another 
I+E form that Mrs S sent them, apart from the one I mentioned in my provisional decision 
when I said Barclaycard have provided a system note regarding this document. The system 
note is date stamped on 1 November 2022 and shows Mrs S sent them a letter dated 23 
October 2022. It shows Mrs S made an offer of £100 per month, but it states there is £428 a 
month of disposable income. 
The system note shows that the I&E detail is incomplete. Its not clear based on the note, 
whether Barclaycard believed there was a need to agree to a reduced payment when the 
I&E form showed £428 a month disposable income, or that they believed the I&E form was 
incomplete on the basis of the disposable income. I also said While Barclaycards letter to 
Mrs S asks her to contact them so they could talk through her I&E, they also said that 
alternatively she could complete an electronic version of the I&E form, and they gave her a 
specific email address to send this to. Barclaycard have confirmed that they didnt receive 
any emails from Mrs S at this email address. So this is why Barclaycard didnt make any 
comment or reference to the figures on the third party form.
I have looked at the form Mrs S sent to me. I wouldnt be able to hold Barclaycard 
responsible for any errors in the form as they would have no control over third party I+E 
forms. But Im not persuaded there are errors with this form. I can understand why Mrs S 
believes this shows she has a disposable income of £329. This is because it says total of all 
monthly outgoings and has a figure of £541. So this would appear there would be (£870-
£541) £329 disposable income. But the next line is clearer in the sense that it refers to an 
amount left over after essential (such as food etc) monthly outgoings were paid. Where it 
mentions priority debts, this would be for things such as a mortgage payment, and that is 
why the £329 figure is still shown as Mrs S appeared to have no (what would be classed as) 
priority debts.
Although the I+E form shows the amount left over for her creditors is £329 a month, what 
this is essentially saying is that Mrs S would have £329 a month to pay for all of her non-
priority debts. The next line shows her total payments for non-priority debts is £525. So what 
this is showing is the same thing as Mrs S is saying (albeit the way the form is displayed it 
could lead the user to misunderstand it). As Mrs S was paying £525 for her non-priority 
debts but she only had £329 a month to pay for these non-priority debts (which would 
include her Barclaycard payment) then this meant Mrs S did have a £525 - £329 = £196 per 
month shortfall. So I hope this helps Mrs S understand there was no error in the third party 
I+E form, but I can understand why she would think that. 
In summary, Mrs S response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. If Mrs S is disappointed, I hope she 
understands my reasons. Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to pay Mrs S £150 for distress and 
inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay 
Mrs S £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman