DRN-2498022
The complaint
Mr H complaint is that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI). 
 
What happened
Mr H complained about single premium PPI policies taken out on four loans between 1998 
and 2000. The cost of the premiums was added to the loans and incurred interest.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint concerning the 2000 PPI sale be upheld, 
but the others should not be upheld. The adjudicator said that Nationwide hadnt given 
enough information about the costs of the 2000 PPI.  
Mr H agreed with the adjudicator, but Nationwide disagreed about the 2000 sale. Because of 
this, the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I agree with the adjudicators assessment of the three pre-2000 sales, and Mr H and 
Nationwide hasnt contested these. So Ill look here just at the 2000 sale. 
Ive decided to uphold the complaint about the 2000 PPI sale. 
Nationwide was able to identify the channel of sale of the pre-2000 sales, and included some 
application documents as well as the loan agreements.  But it doesnt know how the 2000 
sale occurred, and has given us only the loan agreement (and a sample of a telephone 
application form). 
Nationwide says that the same information was given on the loan agreement forms for each 
of the sales, and it cant understand why the earlier sales are considered adequate and yet 
the 2000 sale isnt.
In cases such as these, where there is limited information, the balance in finding a fair 
outcome can be fine. 
Because of the large number of cases weve considered over the years, weve built up some 
knowledge about PPI-sellers normal business practices. For Nationwide, in sales for this 
period that took place in branch, weve built up some knowledge that suggests enough 
information is often likely to have been given during the sales process (rather than just at the 
point of signing the loan agreement). This will often tip the balance of evidence so that we 
dont uphold such complaints on these grounds.
But, with the 2000 sale, we dont know which method of sale was followed. So we cant be 
sure that Nationwide fulfilled its responsibility to give Mr H enough information for him to 
make an informed choice. (The telephone form is not good evidence that the costs were 
properly discussed if this was a phone sale.) And the costs were a significant proportion of 
the overall loan, especially when considering the maximum potential benefits Mr H could 
have received. 
Given that, I think its more likely than not that Mr H didnt receive enough information; and 
that hed have made a different decision if he had. 
So I think the 2000 PPI policy was mis-sold. 
  
Putting things right
 Mr H borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been and 
he paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr H needs to get back the extra he paid. 
So, Nationwide should: 
Work out and pay Mr H the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid each month without PPI. 
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr H paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr H compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman