DRN-3347839
The complaint
Mr R complains about delay by ReAssure Limited in making his annual pension payment 
and which he says caused him a financial loss and time and trouble in sorting it out. 
What happened
Although Ive read and considered everything, Im not going to refer to all that happened. I 
dont think theres any dispute that there was a delay by ReAssure in making Mr Rs pension 
payment. 
Essentially, Mr R, who doesnt live in the UK, has a pension plan with ReAssure from which 
he draws down an annual amount of £3,983.64 (gross). Mr R expected the payment to be 
made on 21 August 2020. 
He was initially told the payment had been sent and hed get it by 4 September 2020. When 
he didnt receive the money by then Mr R called ReAssure. It looked like the money may 
have been sent to the wrong account. ReAssure wanted evidence from Mr R and his bank to 
show that he hadnt received the funds and it seemed ReAssure would need to trace the 
payment. But ReAssure later confirmed that the payment hadnt been made. It was then sent 
by telegraphic transfer and Mr R received the money on 22 September 2020. A net amount 
of £3,187.04 was sent. The exchange rate quoted was 1.077 euros to a pound.
ReAssure initially offered Mr R £150 for inconvenience in dealing with the matter and a £10 
late interest payment. ReAssure later offered Mr R a further £150 for the inconvenience hed 
suffered. 
Mr R remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint. But she didnt agree that Mr R should be paid all the compensation hed asked 
for. She said that in his letter of 9 March 2021, Mr R had set out his claim as: 
Exchange loss caused by received delayed payment: £124.30
Allowance for out of pocket expenses: £100
Compensation for mental stress and disruption: £1,000
Time costs in pursuit of payment and production of complaint: £3,288
Mr R had said that the exchange rate on 21 August 2020 was Euro 1.12 to 1.00 GBP and on 
22 September 2020 it was Euro 1.077 to 1.00 GBP.
The investigator said she wasnt entirely sure of the source of the exchange rate Mr R had 
quoted for 21 August 2020. But she said there was a difference in the exchange rates for the 
two dates and she was satisfied Mr R had suffered a loss due to the delayed payment. On 
that basis, shed ask ReAssure to do the calculations based on the exchange rates Mr R 
wouldve received from his bank in the country where he lives. 
The investigator said the £300 paid towards the distress caused and any expenses incurred 
was in line with what shed have recommended and so she wouldnt be asking ReAssure to 
make any further payments towards that. She didnt agree with Mr Rs claim for £3,288 for 
time spent. She noted that ReAssure had paid £10 towards interest. But she said where a 
consumer has been deprived of the use of their money wed use an interest rate of 8% pa. 
Mr R was expecting £3,187.04 on 21 August 2020 and didnt receive the money until 22 
September 2020.
Mr R had also raised an issue about an incorrect P60 received in 2021. The P60 recorded 
that Mr R had been paid a gross amount of £7,967.28 (net £6,374.08) which suggested the 
sum paid was recorded twice. Mr R had written to ReAssure on 16 May 2021 and contacted 
them on 6 July 2021 by telephone. ReAssure had apologised for the error and a correct P60 
was issued on 13 July 2021. The investigator said she was satisfied with that and she 
wouldnt be asking ReAssure to do any more about that issue. 
The investigator set out the calculation ReAssure needed to do to assess the financial loss 
(if any) Mr R had suffered. 
In response Mr R was glad that the investigator had partially supported his claim. But he 
thought it unfair that his claim for loss of time and effort in making his claim couldnt succeed. 
He said those at ReAssure and this office dealing with the matter were compensated for 
their time. He felt the system was biased against the smaller party and acted as a deterrent 
to the customer whod suffered the loss. 
ReAssure didnt accept what the investigator had said either. ReAssure said it appreciated 
thered been a delay in releasing the funds but that had been addressed with compensation 
of £300 plus an extra £10 for any lost interest. 
ReAssure didnt agree that an interest rate of 8% should apply. It said its understanding, 
based on our guidance, was that the rate applied for the period of deprivation had credit 
been sought for the period in which the consumer had been deprived of their funds. 
ReAssures opinion was that it was very rare to have to bridge the period of deprivation by 
seeking credit and it wasnt prepared to cover interest charges that hadnt actually been 
incurred. 
It said it would consider paying 8% interest or the actual rate of interest incurred, when a 
consumer can demonstrate with evidence that a credit charge has been incurred during a 
period of deprivation. If no credit charge has been incurred it didnt think it should have to 
pay 8% because it would be covering charges that hadnt been incurred which would put the 
consumer in a better financial position and thered be a personal gain and that wouldnt be 
fair to other customers who hadnt had the benefit of 8% interest. ReAssure maintained that 
if no credit rate of interest had been incurred, BOE (Bank of England) rate plus 1% based 
on current market conditions was fair and reasonable for both the customer and the 
business.
As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where, as here, the business concerned accepts that something has gone wrong and has 
made an offer, I need to consider if the offer is fair and reasonable. I agree with the 
investigator that ReAssures offer - £300 plus the further £10  isnt sufficient. Ill explain 
why. Where I uphold a complaint I can award what I consider to be fair and reasonable 
compensation for, amongst other things, financial loss and distress and inconvenience.
In awarding redress for financial loss our starting point is to try to put the consumer as far as 
possible back in the position theyd have been in, had the business acted as it shouldve 
done. 
I dont think theres any dispute that ReAssure shouldve paid Mr R his money (his annual 
withdrawal) on 21 August 2020. Instead Mr R didnt get the funds until 22 September 2020. 
He got less than he wouldve done had the payment been made on 21 August 2020 as it 
seems the exchange rate had moved against him. So hes suffered a financial loss  the 
difference between the amount that wouldve been credited to his account on 21 August 
2020 and the amount was actually credited on 22 September 2020. So I agree with the 
investigator that ReAssure needs to compensate Mr R for that financial loss. I also agree 
with the calculation set out by the investigator to determine Mr Rs financial loss.
Mr Rs financial loss is (A) + (B)  [(C) + (D)]
Where:
(A) is the notional amount (in euros) Mr R wouldve received according to the bank exchange 
rate on 21 August 2020
(B) is 8% simple interest (per annum) on the notional amount he wouldve received on
21 August 2020
(C) is the actual amount received (in euros) by Mr R on 22 September 2020
(D) is the amount of interest ReAssure had already paid (£10)
As the investigator said, any income tax that Mr R wouldve paid should be taken into 
account. And, if the actual value is more than the notional value, then theres no loss and no 
compensation is payable. Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr R in a clear and 
simple format. 
If there is a loss I agree that additional interest at 8% pa is payable on that loss to the date of 
payment (less the £10 already paid).
ReAssure has objected to paying interest at 8% pa. But, if a consumer has been deprived 
of money  meaning they didnt have it available to use  well usually tell the business to 
pay interest on top of the money award. 
I dont agree with what ReAssure has said about that rate only being applicable if a 
consumer has incurred interest because theyve had to take out some form of credit. As we 
explain on our website, in most cases we think a rate of 8% simple pa (which is the rate the 
courts usually use) is appropriate. We can use a different rate if we think its fair. For 
example, if a customer might have used the money they didnt get to pay a credit card bill, 
we might use the higher interest rate they were charged instead of 8% pa. But wed still 
usually use 8% even if a consumer hasnt said theyd had to borrow money etc. We wont 
normally use the current rate paid on bank deposit accounts. I think 8% pa is fair and 
reasonable in this case and in line with our usual approach. 
As well as redressing any financial loss, well also consider if an award for distress and 
inconvenience should be made. Here ReAssure has offered, in total, £300. I note what Mr R 
has said about the time hes spent dealing with the matter. But, and as the investigator has 
explained, we dont use an hourly rate to calculate compensation. Instead we look at the 
overall impact that the businesss mistake has had. I recognise that Mr R thinks it should be 
more but I think £300 is in line with the sort of award wed make in a case such as this. Mr R has had to spend a reasonable amount of effort in sorting things out and hes suffered 
distress, inconvenience and frustration over a period of some four or so weeks. 
Lastly, I note that there was also a problem with Mr Rs P60. But I think it was sorted out 
relatively quickly and ReAssure has apologised. So again Id agree with the investigators 
view that no further compensation is due.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. ReAssure must redress Mr R as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman