DRN-4423645
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal 
London) failed to update her about changes to her policy.
What happened
Mrs W bought a protection policy many years ago which included a sum assured of £60,000 
payable on death if within the plan term. The plan term was 30 years. The policy also 
included a conversion option. 
In 2023, Mrs W contacted Royal London about the conversion option but she was told it had 
been removed in 2012. She complained that she hadnt been informed about this in 2012 
and if she had been, she could have considered her options. She has also said she hadnt 
been contacted for 15 years about anything relating to the administration of the policy.
Royal London responded to Mrs Ws complaint and sent her a cheque for £500. It 
apologised for not informing Mrs W of the removal of the conversion option but didnt think 
Mrs W had suffered any financial detriment. 
Unhappy, Mrs W referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that the offer made by Royal London 
was fair.
Mrs W disagreed and in summary, said she had been paying into a policy which didnt offer 
the same benefits as when she first took it out. She thinks she should receive a higher 
amount of compensation. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I have carefully considered everything Mrs W has said, in detail. But my decision will 
focus on what I consider to be key. 
Mrs W says if she had been informed in 2012 that the conversion option had been 
removed, she could have considered her options. She may have continued paying 
the premiums for the cover, she may have sourced another policy with life cover or 
she may have opened a savings account. She cannot say for certain what she would 
have done but she did clearly lose the opportunity to consider her options at the time. 
For failing to inform Mrs W of the removal of the conversion option, Royal London 
apologised and sent Mrs W a cheque for £500. 
Royal London also said Mrs W didnt suffer a financial detriment. It said that as there 
was no investment element to the policy, it wasnt required to issue annual 
statements. Mrs W had the option of contacting Royal London if she had any 
questions about the policy.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mrs W has suffered any detriment as a result of 
Royal Londons failure to inform her of the removal of the conversion option. Based 
on everything Mrs W has said, I agree that she lost the opportunity to make a 
decision about her policy in 2012. I cant say for certain for what she would have 
done and so I think an award of compensation for loss of opportunity is the most 
appropriate remedy. I dont think there is a clear financial loss as Mrs W may have 
continued with the policy in any event. And ultimately, this was a life assurance policy 
where the purpose was to provide a benefit on death. So I dont think the conversion 
option was a key factor. 
Mrs W has said that she may have been able to find a cheaper policy at the time and 
she was paying for a benefit which had been sold but was no longer available. I 
havent seen any evidence that the conversion option increased the premium or that 
she was paying an additional, specific sum for the inclusion of this option. The 
premium paid was for the sum assured and a term of 30 years. 
I accept Mrs W would have been disappointed and shocked that the conversion 
option was removed in 2012. But I am not satisfied that this has caused Mrs W any 
direct financial loss and so I think £500 compensation for loss of opportunity is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think the £500 offered by Royal London is reasonable.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman