DRN-2972398
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op (Co-Op) declined 
their home insurance claim for external damage to their roof.
For ease of reference Ill refer to all submissions as being made by Mr P throughout.
What happened
On 21 January 2021 after a period of bad weather, Mr P noticed water had unfortunately 
entered his utility room via the flat roof. He therefore asked Co-Op to consider a claim for the 
internal and external damage.
Co-Op arranged for a surveyor to visit his property and review what happened. The surveyor 
took photographs of the roof and said he didnt think the damage had been caused by a 
storm, or any other insured peril. Instead he said the damage had happened due to a natural 
breakdown of materials and the water ingress had occurred over time. In reaching this 
conclusion, he highlighted cracks and maintenance issues, which he said were visible on the 
roof.
Co-Op then declined the claim. They based this decision on the surveyors findings and their 
belief that while Mr Ps property was subjected to some bad weather, the conditions werent 
severe enough to suggest a storm had taken place. 
Mr P didnt agree with this outcome and provided Co-Op with an email from a builder hed 
asked to inspect his roof. The builder said he believed the damage had been caused by a        
 wind directional leak. This email was then shared with the surveyor, and while he said he 
didnt think it changed his position in relation to the external damage. He did say on 
reflection, that it may be reasonable for Co-Op to cover the internal damage under the 
accidental damage section of the policy. As he said this was the first time Mr P had noticed 
or reported any damage caused by the water ingress.
Co-Op then accepted liability for the internal damage and paid Mr P £50 compensation to 
say sorry for not doing so earlier. As their position remained the same in relation to the 
external damage  Mr P asked our service to consider this part of his claim.
Initially our investigator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld, as based on the weather 
reports Co-Op had provided, she agreed the bad weather that took place at the time of the 
claim didnt meet the policy definition of a storm. As such, she didnt think Co-Op had 
unreasonably declined the claim on the grounds that there was no insured peril. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion and requested a final decision. Our investigator 
then issued a revised opinion, due to additional information coming to light. Specifically, she 
had checked some additional weather reports and they indicated the wind speeds at the time 
of the claim constituted a storm. However, she still didnt think this changed the outcome of 
the complaint. As while there may have been a storm - she didnt think this was the key 
cause of the damage. 
As Mr P continued to disagree, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr P feels very strongly about this matter and my decision will be a 
disappointment to him. However, for the reasons Ill now explain I dont think his claim was 
declined unfairly. 
I havent addressed the way Co-Op settled the internal damage to Mr Ps property, as this 
part of his claim is resolved. Instead Ive focused on whether I think Co-Op should 
reasonably do anything more in relation to the external damage.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only damage caused 
by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the damage can 
be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim unless it is 
able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. 
As Mr P has said the damage to the roof of his property was caused by bad weather, I would 
reasonably expect Co-Op to consider if a storm had taken place, as this is the closest 
insured peril that could possibly apply to the external damage under the terms of the policy.
A storm is defined in Mr Ps policy wording as:
  a period of violent weather involving
(a) wind speeds with gusts of at least 55 miles per hour; or
(b) torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 15mm per hour; or
(c) snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours; or
(d) hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
Im satisfied the conditions at the time of Mr Ps claim match this definition, as the weather 
reports I have checked show that on 21 January 2021, there were peak wind gusts of 57 
miles per hour. As this report was based on a weather station located seven miles away 
from Mr Ps property, I think it is suitably reliable. 
While Im satisfied storm conditions were present  this doesnt automatically mean Co-Op 
should reasonably have settled the claim. As I would also need to conclude, the storm was 
the key reason for the damage, and I dont think the evidence suggests this was the case. 
Most well-maintained homes can sustain the types of storm we see in this country. Often, 
whilst the damage manifests itself after a storm, it is typically the case that the storm has 
highlighted some existing damage rather than directly caused it. 
As Mr P is aware, the surveyor that inspected his property concluded that the roof hadnt 
been subjected to any storm damage. Instead he said, the roof had unfortunately cracked in 
several places and a previous repair was deteriorating badly. As such, he concluded the 
damage was likely to have been caused due to poor maintenance and wear and tear that 
had taken place over time. 
Im aware Mr P strongly disputes the surveyors findings and doesnt think he was suitably 
qualified to complete the report. However, as Co-Op appointed a company, that requires all 
their surveyors to have at least five years of buildings experience, relevant qualifications and 
completion of their own internal training scheme  Im satisfied they acted reasonably by appointing this company and relying on the surveyors report. 
Ive also reviewed the photographs that were provided from the time of the inspection, and 
Im satisfied they appear to support the surveyors findings. As the cracks and damage, he 
highlighted is in my opinion visible. I also note Mr P believes the surveyor should have 
physically inspected his roof instead of just relying on the photographs he took using an 
extended pole. However, as the photographs are of a good quality and sufficiently clear  I 
dont think he acted unreasonably by relying on them. It also isnt unusual for surveyor 
inspections to take place in this way due to health and safety reasons. 
Ive considered the email Mr P has provided from his builder which says they believe the 
damage was caused by a  wind directional leak. However, the builders comments are brief 
and, in my opinion, dont outweigh the surveyors report or the photographs that were 
provided with it. I also note that when Co-Op shared this email with the surveyor  he 
maintained his opinion, that the damage to the roof hadnt been caused by the storm 
conditions. As such, while I dont doubt the high wind speeds may have highlighted the 
existing weaknesses in the roof  I dont think there are enough grounds to say Co-Op 
should reasonably have concluded it was the main cause of the damage. Im also satisfied 
Co-Op reasonably reviewed the additional evidence they were given, before finalising their 
position in relation to this claim.
Finally, Mr Ps policy contains an exclusion for any damage that is caused by wear and tear, 
or poor maintenance. For the reasons Ive given, I dont think Co-Op unreasonably relied on 
this exclusion to decline the claim for the external damage that was reported.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman