DRN-3656159
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader, trading as B. He has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) unfairly turned down his business interruption insurance claim after he was 
forced to close B due to Covid-19. Mr A has also complained about RSAs handling of his 
claim. 
My references to Mr A include the submissions made by his representative on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr A runs a public house. He held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. He 
claimed on his policy after his business was impacted by Covid-19. He had decided not to 
open his pub because of several Covid-19 cases in the local village, including among his 
regular customers. 
RSA said that the policy didnt cover Mr As claim. It said Mr A had not shown that Covid-19 
had manifested on the premises prior to the Governments lockdown restrictions coming into 
force, as required for a successful claim under the policy. RSA didnt think the Supreme 
Courts judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance 
test case impacted the outcome of the claim. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He said he had 
provided the evidence required by RSA but that it had moved the goalposts during the 
claim process. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Mr A had shown it was most likely 
that a case of Covid-19 had manifested on the premises. 
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In summary, he said that he had 
provided a reasonable amount of evidence to show that customers in the vicinity of his 
premises had Covid-19. He couldnt show the customers were on the premises because he 
runs a cash only business. He said RSAs claim handling had been poor. If RSA would not 
pay the claim then at the very least it should refund the premium because there was no 
way he could have claimed. 
Developments
Following a staff change, our new Investigator explained that he did not uphold Mr As 
complaint about RSAs claim handling. He said RSA had explained the list of evidence it had 
asked for had not been exhaustive. Even if RSA had explained more about the evidence it 
needed earlier our Investigator did not think it would have made a difference to the claim 
outcome. Although Mr As claim had not been successful, RSA had provided cover for the 
risks listed in the policy. As such, our Investigator did not consider it would be fair to require 
RSA to refund the policy premium due to a claim being unsuccessful. 
Mr A did not agree and so the complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr As business. However, I am not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why 
and in doing so I will focus on the issues I consider to be central to this complaint.
The claim 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Mr As claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Mr As policy covers business interruption loss as a 
result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Mr As 
claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a 
case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. For a case to have manifested itself at 
the premises, I think that someone would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 
or have displayed symptoms while at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 manifested itself at the 
insured premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the 
policyholder to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
Mr A has provided contemporaneous evidence to show that a child of his customer Mr W 
had symptoms of Covid-19 in the week before lockdown. Mr A has sent us Mr Ws copy 
emails with his employer dated 16 March 2020 to show that Mr W and his wife Mrs W had 
self-isolated due to their childs symptoms. Mr W said the family, including the child, had 
visited the pub but could not be sure whether the child and/or he and Mrs W had had 
Covid-19 when they entered the premises. 
I appreciate Mr A has said that RSA mistakenly thought that it was only Mr W who had 
visited the pub, rather than the whole family. But I do not consider this makes any difference 
to the outcome. I say this because Mr Ws evidence does not suggest that his child was 
displaying symptoms of Covid-19 while at the pub as would be required for me to find that a 
case of Covid-19 had manifested itself at the premises. I also have to bear in mind that many 
people with symptoms of Covid-19 at the time didnt actually have the disease. I do not 
consider that Mr Ws evidence supports Mr As claim.Mr A has also sent us evidence from another customer Ms M. Mr A has provided an undated 
Facebook message saying that Ms M had had a formal diagnosis of Covid-19 and her 
husband had been diagnosed the previous week. Ms M provided a copy of a 
GPs Statement of Fitness for Work dated 16 March 2020 saying that she was unfit for work 
from 6 March 2020 to 24 March 2020 due to Covid-19. Following his enquiries of Ms M, Mr A 
has also sent us her text message responses saying that she had visited the pub before she 
realised she had Covid-19.
The contemporaneous evidence shows that Ms M had Covid-19. But on Ms Ms own 
evidence she did not realise that she had Covid-19 when she visited the pub. As such, I am 
not persuaded it is likely, on balance, that she displayed symptoms while at the premises. 
And, even if she did have symptoms Mr A has not been able to provide any 
contemporaneous evidence that Ms M was at the pub while displaying symptoms or the 
date/s she visited the pub. I do not consider Ms Ms evidence is shows that a case of 
Covid-19 manifested itself at the premises.  
I appreciate that Mr A had emailed RSA on 23 March 2020 to say that he had been forced to 
close the pub due to Covid-19 because customers had Covid-19. This is contemporaneous 
evidence, as he says. But it does not show, of itself, that a case of Covid-19 manifested at 
the premises. 
I do not consider the weight of evidence is enough, on balance, to persuade me that it is 
more likely than not that a case of Covid-19 manifested itself at the premises. 
I have reviewed Mr As comments about Covid-19 being in the vicinity of the pub and there 
having been several cases in the village where the pub is located. Mr A says that the court in 
the FCA test case did look at this and made a ruling about cases of Covid-19 in the vicinity 
of the premises. 
I see the point that Mr A is making but I dont think this assists him in his claim. In the test 
case, the court looked at radius disease clauses, being those that provide cover for 
business interruption as a consequence of or following or arising from the occurrence or 
manifestation of a notifiable disease within a specified radius of the insured premises. But 
importantly Mr As policy did not include radius disease wording. Rather, Mr As policy 
required Covid-19 to manifest itself at the premises. And Mr A has not shown it was more 
likely than not that Covid-19 manifested itself at the premises. So I think RSA was correct to 
conclude that the outcome of Mr As claim was not affected by the FCA test case.  
I appreciate that my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr A. But I do 
not consider that I can fairly require RSA to pay Mr As claim. 
Claim handling
Mr A has complained that RSAs claim handling was poor. In particular, he says that the 
claim form was not fit for purpose, that RSA failed to explain the evidence it required in a 
proper or timely way, requested evidence that was not reasonable in the absence of 
community testing and that it moved the goalposts. 
I have considered Mr As comments but I do not consider that RSAs claim handling was 
poor to the extent that I could fairly require it to pay compensation. Mr A was required to 
provide evidence to support his claim. It was reasonable that RSA included a positive 
Covid-19 test result as an example of the evidence it would accept, even if community 
testing was not available in March 2020. 
RSAs list of suggested evidence was not exhaustive and I dont think its claim handling changed the outcome of the claim. Mr A had been able to provide evidence from his 
customers. I dont think I could fairly say that RSA moved the goalposts when it asked for 
more evidence in support of the claim. The difficulty was that the evidence Mr A did provide 
was not sufficient to show Covid-19 had manifested at the premises for the reasons I have 
already explained. 
I dont think there is any basis for me fairly to require RSA to refund Mr As policy premium. 
RSA provided Mr A with cover for the risks listed in the policy, even though the claim that he 
submitted was ultimately not successful. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman