DRN-2779078
The complaint
Mr H and Mr H complain about how they were dealt with by Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM) when they renewed the mortgage product on their buy to let 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr H and Mr H had a buy to let mortgage. Their fixed rate product was coming to an end in 
April 2020. In February 2020 they contacted BM about a 1.9% mortgage product with no 
product fee which was on their website.  But this was only available through a broker. Mr H 
and Mr H contacted a broker in March 2020 as the Covid pandemic started. The broker 
recommended a mortgage product with 2.79% rate and a £999 product fee. Mr H and Mr H 
accepted this mortgage offer from BM. But then they had second thoughts and tried to 
contact BM throughout March by phone to cancel the rate. When Mr H and Mr H made 
contact, BM said that it wouldnt cancel the rate but offered £50 for the cost of the calls made 
to get through.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he feet that BM 
had done nothing wrong. Mr H and Mr H disagreed and asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold this complaint, I need to find that BM did something wrong. The problem is 
that I cant fairly say that it did anything wrong. Mr and Mr H complain that having found on 
BMs website a fixed rate that they were happy with, BM wouldnt deal with them directly but 
insisted they go through a broker. Its not unusual for a lender to manage its affairs like this. 
Direct sales of financial products to consumers sometimes involves providing a level that a 
lender may not be equipped to do and doesnt offer that service. So, it may only sell certain 
products through brokers as appears to be the case here. If there is a requirement that the 
product is suitable for the borrower, the task to decide that falls on the broker and not the 
lender. So, I see nothing wrong with BM selling products through brokers only.
The second issue is that Mr H and Mr H after they agreed the mortgage offer through the 
broker decided that they didnt want to continue with the product. They face a difficulty there 
in that having accepted the offer, BM was committed to providing the product on the terms 
agreed and Mr H and Mr H were committed to meeting their obligations under the contract. If 
Mr H and Mr H were unhappy with the terms of the mortgage product, they shouldnt have 
accepted the offer. But having accepted it, they were bound by it. Mr H and Mr H say that in 
March they tried to contact BM to get out of it, but they were unable to get through by phone. 
Ive no doubt that there were difficulties getting through by phone in March 2020 given that 
stage of the Covid pandemic. BM has offered compensation for that of £50 which seems 
appropriate. 
I note that a Mr H called BM on 31 March 2020 as he thought that there was an error on the 
letter from BM setting out the payments. Mr H wasnt asking about getting out of the 
mortgage at that stage but clearly was unhappy that the figures he was being given by BM 
were different than the rates he thought he had agreed to. But BM had no direct dealings 
with Mr H and the rates Mr H and Mr H were being given were the rates on the mortgage 
transfer offer from BM that they had accepted. So, I cant fairly say that BM has done 
anything wrong and so, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman