DRN-4207471
The complaint
Mr E has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr E made a claim under his motor insurance policy with Advantage. As his car was written 
off he bought a new car and looked to place it on cover with Advantage. At the same time, 
he updated a few further details on the policy and was charged an increase in premium in 
order to use the remainder of his policy. But for some reason the change in vehicle didnt 
happen on the policy, although the other changes did, so Advantage cancelled his policy as 
he hadnt placed a new car on cover. 
As Mr E wasnt happy about this he complained to Advantage. He explained that he wouldnt 
have paid an additional premium for the policy if he hadnt changed his car and felt it should 
reinstate the policy. But Advantage said that the full years premium was always due after his 
car was written off and it wasnt responsible for his error in attempting to place the new car 
on cover. So it maintained that the increase in premium was due. 
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr E. Although she accepted that Advantage hadnt 
done anything wrong in charging the full years premium as Mr E had made a claim under the 
policy she didnt think it had acted fairly by not allowing Mr E to place his new car on cover. 
And so, she thought it should refund the premium pro-rata and pay £100 by way of 
compensation for the clear stress and inconvenience all this caused Mr E. 
As Mr E didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Although I can understand Advantages position and agree that the full premium for the year 
would always be due following a claim on the policy I dont think the outcome in this 
particular case is fair. In this instance Mr Es car was written off and he was paid a total loss 
settlement and allowed 30 days to place another car on cover in order to use the remainder 
of the policy (which is standard across the industry). And Mr E bought a new car and looked 
to place it on cover with Advantage online so he thought he was insured and could use the 
remaining cover on the policy  indeed Mr E had paid an increase in premium which he 
thought stemmed from the change in vehicle.
In fact, for reasons that are unclear, he hadnt managed to save any vehicle changes, but he 
had changed other details on the policy which created an increase in premium. So Mr E was 
surprised to receive a letter explaining that his policy had cancelled just over a week later (as 
he thought hed placed a new car on cover). He said he wouldnt have paid the increase in 
premium for a car he no longer owned as it had been declared a total loss.
Given it is clear that Mr E had bought a new car and clearly wanted to place this on cover I 
dont know why Advantage didnt revisit this with him when it became clear his new car 
hadnt been placed on cover. For some reason the change in vehicle didnt save, whether 
this was down to human error on Mr Es part or due to a system problem is unclear. But 
either way I accept that Mr E wanted to place his new car on cover. He bought the new car 
on the day he made the changes and it would make no sense for Mr E not to use the 
remainder of the policy given hed bought a new car as opposed to paying for a new policy 
elsewhere.
So, I agree with our investigator that he should be put back into the position he should have 
been but for the error. And he has had to go on and get insurance elsewhere for his new car, 
so it doesnt seem fair for him to, in effect, pay twice for a policy. So Advantage should 
refund Mr E his premium from the date he claimed, and his original car was written off. It 
should also pay 8% simple interest for the time he has been without the money. And it 
should pay him £100 compensation for the clear stress and inconvenience all this has 
caused him.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to refund Mr E his premium from the time his car was written off 
and pay 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement. Plus £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman