DRN-2955971
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the actions of Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) in 
pursuing him for a debt. 
What happened
Mr A took out a loan in 2007. The loan was secured by a charge against his property in 
favour of the original lender. Mr A fell behind with the payments and the original lender 
defaulted the loan. It then sold the outstanding balance to Cabot, a debt purchaser, in June 
2014.
Cabot appointed agents to act on its behalf in recovering the debt, including solicitors due to 
the debt being secured.
Around May 2016 Mr A raised concerns about the balance with Cabot and its agents. He 
said the original lender had added fees to the amount borrowed, which he hadnt noticed at 
the time. So, he felt the amount initially showing as owed was incorrect and that he mightve 
in fact cleared the debt in full.
Cabot says it referred Mr As concerns to the original lender. Mr A has said he received no 
further correspondence from any of the parties for some time so assumed he was correct, 
and that the debt was considered settled.
In late 2019, agents working for Cabot again contacted Mr A requesting repayment of the 
debt. Mr A raised a complaint with Cabot. He reiterated that he felt the original lender had 
incorrectly increased the level of borrowing. He also said that the lender had not reduced the 
interest rate even though the Bank of England base rate had reduced. He felt a combination 
of this meant he may already have repaid the debt claimed. Mr A also said he didnt feel 
Cabot should be pursuing him as he believed the debt could be statute barred. Mr A added 
that he had suffered health issues recently, so was finding the stress of dealing with this 
matter difficult.
Cabot said, as Mr As complaint was largely about the administration of the account by the 
original lender, it was not responsible for these actions and could not comment. It did agree 
though to place collections activity on hold for sixty days, while Mr A pursued matters with 
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), as the original lender had ceased 
trading.
Unhappy with this response Mr A asked our service to consider his complaint. In summary 
Mr A raised four main areas he was unhappy with;
The operation of the account by the original lender  that the amount of borrowing 
was increased without his knowledge when the loan was first opened and that the 
interest rate was not reduced in line with the Bank of England base rate.
Whether the debt, being claimed in respect of the account, is statute barred.
If it is fair that Cabot is pursuing the debt, given how much he has already repaid 
(Mr A estimated hed already repaid roughly the amount he originally borrowed) and 
his concerns about the original lenders practices.
How Cabot has dealt with him when pursuing repayment.
I issued a decision in July 2021 explaining that I thought we werent able to consider the first 
point, the actions of the original lender, against Cabot. And I also felt we shouldnt consider 
the second complaint point, about whether the debt was statute barred, as that was a matter 
better dealt with by a court. So, I felt we could only look into the latter two areas of concern 
Mr A raised.
The investigator that originally handled the complaint previously explained that he didnt 
think Cabot was acting incorrectly by asking for the debt to be repaid. He did say hed expect 
Cabot to review what was affordable to Mr A, and work constructively with him, moving 
forwards, on a repayment plan  which Cabot has indicated it intends to do.
Mr A has already indicated that he didnt agree with the investigators opinion. As a result, Ill 
now consider the issues we are able to look into and make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr A took out the original borrowing. Ive seen a copy of the credit 
agreement with the original lender, confirming he was the borrower. The outstanding 
balance was sold to Cabot, and the credit agreement confirms that the existing lender had 
the discretion to take this action. So, I dont think Cabot has done anything wrong by 
contacting Mr A, through its agents, to discuss repayment. It purchased the debt in good 
faith, and he is the borrower under the agreement.
Mr A has said that he thinks he mightve repaid close to the principal amount borrowed. But 
the original credit agreement also included interest due. And the information Ive seen 
indicates that the amount due under the credit agreement, the principal sum plus interest, 
hadnt been repaid at the point the debt was sold. Again, Cabot purchased the debt in good 
faith. The information available to me indicates Cabot hasnt added any interest or charges 
to the debt since acquiring it. And the amount being pursued is the amount the original 
lender considered was still owed, less repayments Mr A has made since.
So overall, I dont think Cabot has acted unfairly by continuing to pursue Mr A for repayment 
of the debt or in terms of the amount it still considers to be outstanding.
Turning to how Cabot, and its agents, have acted, overall, I think it has acted reasonably.
I can see that Cabot, and its agents, notified Mr A that it had purchased the outstanding debt 
in July 2014, as I would expect it to have done. Ive seen a copy of the letter notifying Mr A of 
this, which is addressed correctly.Ive seen evidence there was then some email correspondence between Cabots agents and 
Mr A in late 2014  indicating he did likely receive notification of Cabot taking ownership of 
the debt. These emails included a request for Mr A to provide income and expenditure 
details to determine what level of repayment was affordable. I can see he provided this in 
January 2015 and a repayment arrangement was agreed. Ive seen evidence that payments 
were broadly maintained in line with this agreement until January 2016 and that the 
payments were applied to reduce the outstanding balance. Repayments then appear to have 
ceased.
Shortly after this, Cabot took the decision to ask different agents to administer the debt for it. 
And Ive seen evidence that Cabot wrote to Mr A confirming this  and the letter was again 
addressed correctly. I think Cabot was entitled to make that choice and has acted 
reasonably by notifying Mr A of this. It was after these new agents contacted Mr A that he 
informed Cabot of his concerns about the balance.
There does appear to have been a breakdown in communication at that point, in 2016. The 
agents working for Cabot at that stage referred the concerns to Cabot and Ive seen 
information to indicate they notified Mr A about this. Cabot then appears to have asked the 
original lender for some additional information. But this was not provided promptly. As a 
result no further action was taken to recover the balance for several years, and there doesnt 
appear to have been any significant updates provided to Mr A. Cabot and its agents then 
contacted Mr A again in 2019, shortly after hed undergone a medical procedure  although 
he acknowledged in his complaint to our service that Cabot had no way of knowing this to be 
the case.
It is unfortunate that there was a period of a couple of years where no update was provided. 
And I can understand why Mr A was then frustrated with the pursuit of the debt beginning 
again. I do certainly think it wouldve been better if Cabot or its agents had kept him updated 
in the intervening period. But again, no charges or interest appear to have been added to the 
outstanding balance. So, Mr A hasnt been caused a financial loss as a result of this 
breakdown in communication. And, although I think its communication couldve been better, I 
dont think this is enough for me to say that Cabot is no longer entitled to pursue Mr A for the 
outstanding balance.
After contact was re-established in 2019, Mr A again informed Cabot of his concerns about 
the actions of the original lender. Cabot correctly explained that it couldnt answer on the 
lenders behalf and suggested Mr A should speak to the FSCS, as the lender had since 
ceased trading. And it agreed to place matters on hold for two months while he did so. As 
Ive said, I dont think Cabot was acting unreasonably when asking for the debt to be repaid. 
So, by providing this grace period I think it was acting reasonably. And again, no charges 
and interest appear to have been added to the balance during that time, or indeed at all 
since Cabot took ownership of the debt.
So, taking everything into account, I think Cabot has acted fairly in how it has pursued the 
outstanding debt.
Moving forward, Id expect Cabot to engage with Mr A, discuss and take account of his 
specific circumstances and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan. Cabot has 
confirmed that is its intention, after our investigation has concluded, which again I consider 
to be fair.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman