DRN-4425466
The complaint
Mr B complains BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) supplied him with a car that 
he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr B is represented by his wife but for the purposes of this decision, I will refer to Mr B only 
as hes the agreement holder.
 
What happened
In February 2021, Mr B entered into a 48 month hire purchase agreement for a used car. 
The cars cash price was around £20,900. It was over four years old and it had travelled 
around 15,300 miles. Mr B paid a deposit of £3,000. He was required to pay monthly 
instalments of £294 with a final optional payment of £8,557.
Shortly after acquiring the car, Mr B complained the tyres were heavily cracked and the 
leather seats were discoloured. In April 2021, the dealership said as a gesture of goodwill, 
they would replace the tyres (once sourced) and valet the car. However according to them, 
before this could happen Mr B replaced all four tyres at a cost of around £400. Mr B said this 
was necessary as one of them blew out within a couple of months after acquiring the car. 
He believes he should be compensated for the same. Mr B also later complained there was 
a fault with the satellite navigation system (sat nav) and the roof retraction. 
Without any further action by the dealership despite his continuous communication attempts, 
he complained to BMWFS in August 2022. In their final response, they only addressed the 
issue with the sat nav and roof retraction. They said although the car has been looked at by 
a third party, no fault had been found and the operation of the car or its safety hadnt been 
hindered. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He said there was insufficient evidence the 
issues with the tyres, sat nav and roof retraction were present at supply. Concerning the 
leather seats, although he accepted they were worn, he believed this was due to general 
wear and tear given the cars age and mileage. Overall, he concluded the car was of 
satisfactory quality at supply. 
Mr B disagreed and maintained his stance. He further commented the leather seats had 
been made to look better than what it actually was up on delivery and had he known the real 
condition of them, he wouldnt have bought the car.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I will explain why. 
Mr B acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. BMWFS was the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the 
supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that, under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage. The quality of goods includes other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. 
In this case, Mr B was supplied with a used car that was over four years old and covered 
over 15,300 miles. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts may already have suffered 
notable wear and tear and may need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which 
wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
The tyres
Mr B complains upon collecting the car, the tyres were severely cracked and he raised this 
to the dealership. He also says within a couple of months, one of them blew out and he 
replaced all four of them. Like the investigator, I find there is insufficient evidence about the 
tyres, the condition it was in at supply and the reason why one of them was so heavily 
damaged to the point it needed replacing. 
Based on the emails Ive seen, I note the car wouldve been subject to pre-sale checks prior 
to Mr B collecting it. I havent seen evidence of such checks but I have seen the MOT history 
of the car and it passed shortly before it was supplied to Mr B, without any advisories. So I 
find its fair to say the tyres were of roadworthy condition. 
I also need to take into account the cars age and mileage. As outlined above, I find its 
reasonable to expect parts of the car (like the tyres) would show signs of significant wear. 
Tyres are considered a serviceable component of a car meaning maintenance, repair or 
replacement is to be expected as its heavily impacted by use of the car. 
Based on the emails Ive seen, I accept the dealership agreed to replace the tyres following 
Mr Bs complaint. However they confirmed that was a gesture of goodwill meaning it wasnt 
an admission of liability for a fault with the tyres. For the reasons outlined above, I dont find 
the dealership was compelled to do this, it would appear they wanted to resolve matters for 
Mr B. If the tyres were replaced by him before this could happen, I cant fairly hold BMWFS 
nor the dealership responsible for this. 
The leather seats
Mr B complained the leather seats are in an unsatisfactory condition as they are discoloured 
and they have marks. He has provided photos of the same and also findings from a third 
party garage which says there are stains to the seats and despite cleaning them, marks 
remain. It goes on to say a specialist leather repair is likely to be needed. 
Based on the above evidence, its clear there is an issue with the seats. However although I 
accept that to be the case, that doesnt necessarily mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied. Im sorry to hear Mr B is unhappy with the condition of the 
seats but I must bear in mind this is a used car, not a new one. So its reasonable to expect 
parts of it (such as the seats) to show significant signs of wear which I find to be the case 
here. 
The sat nav and roof retraction systems
Mr B complains the sat nav and roof retraction systems arent working. He has provided little 
detail about this so there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate the issues hes complaining 
about. In the absence of such evidence, I cant reasonably say there is a fault, that fault was 
present at supply nor that it meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. However based on 
BMWFS contact notes, I can see there is a suggestion Mr B confirmed these issues were 
resolved some time in October 2022 and the only outstanding issues were the tyres and 
seats.
Lastly, Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs complaint about the level of customer service by the 
supplying dealership and BMWFS. Its clear he feels very strongly about the issues and 
given the extent of the back and forth communication and the length of time this has been 
going on, I can appreciate his frustration. However for the reasons outlined above, I dont 
find BMWFS needs to take any further action. 
Summary 
Taking everything into account, there is insufficient evidence the above faults were present 
or developing at supply which would mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Overall I find 
the car was. Therefore I wont be asking BMWFS to do anything to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman