DRN-3136594
The complaint
Mr R complains that hell be left owing a shortfall debt to Topaz Finance Limited after selling 
his buy to let property. He says its unfair for Topaz to ask him to pay the shortfall debt which 
he says will bankrupt him. He asks that Topaz writes off most of the mortgage balance. 
What happened
Mr R bought an investment property in 2007. He took out an interest only buy to let 
mortgage with another lender. His mortgage account was transferred to Topaz. 
In 2019 Mr R looked into selling the property. The value was significantly less than hed 
expected, and less than the mortgage balance. If Mr R sells the property, hell be left with a 
shortfall debt to pay. Mr R says:
The initial valuation was wrong. He says there was fraud by the property developer and 
others involved in the initial transaction.
Its unfair for Topaz to ask him to pay the shortfall. He says the loan was offered on the 
basis the property was sufficient security. And he thinks Topaz acquired his mortgage 
account at a discount.
Topaz misled him about when it acquired his mortgage account.
Our investigator said a valuation was carried out on behalf of the original lender, and the 
lender was entitled to rely on the valuers expert opinion. The mortgage terms and conditions 
say Mr R has to repay the amount he borrowed.
The investigator asked Topaz to confirm when the mortgage was transferred to it. She said 
Topaz doesnt have to tell Mr R what it paid for the account as this is commercially sensitive 
information.
Mr R didnt agree. He said Topaz had been involved from the outset and provided evidence 
he said supported this. He said the lender was the expert, not him, and he relied on its duty 
of care and the steps it took to satisfy itself that the property was good security.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr R has raised serious issues, and its clear that he feels strongly about this matter. I 
understand this. But I must be clear about what Im looking into here.
First, Im not looking into or making findings about whether its right or wrong for Topaz to 
acquire mortgage accounts from another lender. Thats a matter better dealt with by the 
regulator or a court. I cant require Topaz to disclose commercially sensitive information, 
such as the price or other terms on which it acquired the mortgage accounts. Id also say 
that even if Topaz did acquire accounts at a discount, or if it claimed bad debt relief, it 
doesnt follow that it must apply a discount to the debt owed by Mr R.
Second, while Mr R says he didnt know that buy to let mortgages arent regulated, I cant 
fairly hold Topaz responsible for this. I havent seen anything to suggest that the lender or 
Topaz misled Mr R about this.
Third, I cant look into the actions of the property developer or other third parties involved 
with Mr Rs purchase. 
I can look into whether its fair for Topaz to ask Mr R to repay the mortgage in full, even if the 
property is sold for an amount less than the mortgage balance.
Topaz has the benefit of a charge (a mortgage) on Mr Rs property. This means it has the 
right to recover what its owed from the proceeds of sale of the property, if necessary. But 
this doesnt mean it can only recover the debt in that way. When Mr R took out the mortgage 
and borrowed the money he agreed to repay the loan in accordance with the mortgage 
terms and conditions. 
Lenders ask for a valuation to help them assess whether a property is good security for a 
loan. But this isnt a guarantee that the sale proceeds will be enough to repay the debt. If 
Mr Rs property is sold and the proceeds arent enough to repay the debt, Topaz can, under 
the terms and conditions, ask Mr R to pay the shortfall. I havent seen any evidence that 
Mr R was misled about this.
Mr R says it isnt fair for Topaz to ask him to pay the shortfall. He says the original valuation 
was wrong. He says there was fraud by the property developer and others. And Topaz was 
involved with his mortgage account from the outset.
It seems there were two valuations carried out. One in February 2007 and one in April 2007. 
Both were carried out on behalf of the original lender. Mr R says he only saw the first one 
before buying the property. Both valuations give the same valuation (the purchase price) and 
rental value. The only apparent difference is that the first valuer (a qualified surveyor and a 
member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors) said the property wasnt fully 
complete, with completion assumed to be end of March 2007. 
Mr R says these valuations were wrong. But, even if that were the case, I havent seen 
evidence that the lender or Topaz did or should have known this. I think they were entitled to 
rely on the expert opinion of the valuers.  
The mortgage offer sent to Mr R in March 2007 says the valuation is for lending purposes 
and Mr R might want to arrange his own valuation. It says the lender took no responsibility 
for the value provided. I must also take into account that this is a buy to let property. Letting 
property is a business, and Mr R says he has a sizeable portfolio in this country and 
overseas. In effect, Mr R is saying he was relying on the lenders assessment of the property 
as suitable security when making a business decision whether to invest in the property. And 
that the lender is responsible for, and should bear the cost of, his decision to buy a property 
which turned out to be a poor investment. I dont think thats reasonable. I think it was clear 
that the valuation was for lending purposes. I havent seen any evidence that the lender 
misled Mr R that it was providing some sort of guarantee that the property would be a good investment or that it was worth  and would continue to be worth  at least as much as the 
mortgage loan.
Mr R says Topaz gave him incorrect and inconsistent information about when it acquired his 
mortgage account. Topaz says it acquired the account in early 2008. Mr R says Topaz 
acquired his account shortly after he completed his purchase and mortgage in mid-2007, 
and he provided evidence to support this. While I understand Mr Rs frustration, I cant see 
that it changes the outcome here  that is, whether Mr R is liable to repay the loan. Topaz 
reached a commercial agreement to acquire mortgage accounts from another lender. While 
this happened shortly after Mr Rs mortgage completed, I dont think its fair to draw any 
adverse inferences from this. Mr R hasnt provided evidence that Topaz acted 
inappropriately. 
I dont think, based on the available information, its fair and reasonable to require Topaz to 
write off all or part of Mr Rs mortgage balance. Mr R says having to pay the shortfall debt 
will bankrupt him. If Mr R is in financial difficulties, he should contact Topaz to discuss what 
support or arrangement it might be able to offer.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman