DRN-3729897
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions (Novuna), following the return of a car under a hire 
agreement.
What happened
On 7 November 2019, Mr H was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with 
Novuna. The agreement was for 36 months, with monthly rental payments of £230.33. 
Mr H returned the car in April 2022, after terminating the agreement early. The car was 
collected on 19 April 2022, at which time it was inspected with Mr H present. The inspection 
noted a number of areas of damage, two of which Mr H disputed  damage to the bonnet 
and damage to the right wing. 
Mr H complained about the disputed damage, but Novuna said it was chargeable. So, Mr H 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the car was independently inspected for any damage that fell outside of 
industry fair wear and tear guidelines. The pictures taken by the inspector show the damage 
that Mr H was being charged for, whereas the pictures Mr H took are from a different angle 
and distance, so its not possible to see whether any damage was present or not from these.
The investigator also said that the damage shown on the independent report was outside of 
industry guidelines, so he thought Novuna had acted reasonably by charging Mr H for this.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that he was being charged for dirt in paint/poor repair/refinish to 
the cars front right wing, whereas the investigator had referred to the damage as being paint 
chips. He also said that, as the only hirer of the car, he knows that the front wing has never 
been repaired. In addition, hes also said that the dent in the bonnet cant actually be seen.
Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about 
it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr H electronically signed on 7 November 2019. And this 
says at the end of the agreement, you must return the vehicle in good condition, allowing for 
fair wear and tear. In determining fair wear and tear', we apply the recognized industry 
standards published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association. You will be 
charged for any damage outside of fair wear and tear.
Given this, Im satisfied that Mr H was made aware of his obligations regarding keeping the 
car in good repair, what standards Novuna would apply on its return, and that Mr H would be 
charged for anything that fell outside of these standards.
The car was independently inspected on 19 April 2022, with Mr H present during the 
inspection. And Mr H is being charged for the following damage, which he disputes:
Front Wing R. Dirt in Paint. Poor Repair. £140
Bonnet. Dent through swage 16-30mm. £60
front wing R
The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines state repaired 
chips, scratches and dents are acceptable provided the work is completed to a professional 
standard by repairers who can provide full warranty on their work. Obvious evidence of poor 
repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish or poorly 
matched paint, is not acceptable.
The photograph provided with the inspection report clearly shows a series of dirt filled 
indentations on the body panel, spreading over an area of approximately 40mm2. Due to the 
nature of the damage, which seems to include at least one bubble in the paintwork, I can 
understand why the inspector has referred to this as being a poor repair.
However, Mr H says that he hasnt had any such repairs carried out on the car. If thats the 
case, then the most likely explanation for the damage is that they are paint chips that, over 
time, have filled with dirt.
The BVRLA guidelines state chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided they 
are not rusted. A maximum of four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge or eight chips 
on any forward-facing panel are acceptable. The photograph shows what are either seven 
chips and a bubble in the paintwork, or eight chips. And, as this isnt a forward-facing panel, 
more than four chips are unacceptable.
Mr H has argued that, because he hasnt had any repair done, and because the inspector 
has said this is a poor repair, that Novuna dont have the right to charge him for the repair. 
But I disagree. Regardless of what the inspector considered caused the damage, there is 
clear damage to this panel that falls outside of the BVRLA guidelines whether its a poor 
repair or whether its unrepaired paint chips. And the cost of repairing either is likely to be the 
same, as it would need similar work i.e. sanding back the paintwork on the damaged area 
and respraying.
As such, Im satisfied that Novuna acted reasonably by charging Mr H for this damage.bonnet
The BVRLA guidelines states dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided 
there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. Chips within dents 
are not acceptable. Dents on the roof or on the swage line of any panel are not acceptable.
Ive reviewed the photographs provided of this area of damage. The inspection photograph 
was taken using a zebra board. This is a black and white striped panel, the reflection of 
which in the bodywork shows distortion when a dent is present. And the photograph 
provided shows clear distortion of more than 15mm on the swage line.
Im aware that Mr H has been provided with this photograph, and he says the dent isnt 
visible. But the zebra board has a distorted reflection, which shows that a dent was present 
at the time of the inspection. And, as the nature of the dent falls outside the BVRLA 
guidelines, Im satisfied that Novuna acted reasonably by charging Mr H for this damage. 
Given the above, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr H, Im 
satisfied that Novuna have acted fairly. And I wont be asking them to reduce or waive their 
charges.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Mitsubishi HC Capital UK 
Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman