The complaint  
Mr H is unhappy with the compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has offered to settle 
his complaint about a mis -sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out at 
alongside a credit card.  
What happened  
Mr H took out a credit card with Lloyds and PPI was applied to the account. Mr H has now 
complained that the PPI was mis -sold and Lloyds has agreed to uphold his complaint.  
Lloyds offered and paid Mr H compensation of £36.42. This was calculated on the basis 
the PPI was only added to the account fr om May 2000. Lloyds only hold accurate 
statement data from January 2000 and May 2000 was the first month that showed a PPI 
premium being added after the data started.  
Mr H said the PPI was added before this, from 1989, and so the compensation should be 
more as it was running for a longer period. And he brought his complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator said they thought the PPI had run from 1989 and Lloyds should 
recalculate the compensation due, making reasonable assumptions for the periods when 
there was no data. Lloyds agreed and did this, offering an additional amount of £76.56 
after tax.  
But Mr H remained unhappy as he said Lloyds could not have made reasonable 
assumptions as it had no data for the period prior to January 2000. He feels the 
compensation should be substantially more.  
Our adjudicator said what Lloyds had now done was fair b ut as Mr H didnt agree the 
complaint has been referred to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Lloyds has ag reed to uphold Mr Hs complaint and pay him compensation for the PPI that 
was mis -sold. So, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, but at 
whether what has been offered in compensation is fair.  
DRN-2039699When PPI has been mis -sold we e xpect a business to as far as possible put the consumer in 
the position they would have been in if they hadnt taken out the PPI. This means a business 
needs to work out what was paid for the PPI. This includes the premiums paid, and any 
interest and costs  caused on the account by the premiums being added to the account. Also, 
the business has to pay some compensatory interest for any times the consumer was out of 
pocket for the PPI cost.  
 
When Lloyds first calculated the compensation due to Mr H it only us ed the actual 
amounts it knew Mr H had paid for the PPI. Its full statement records start in January 2000 
and these showed the first premium for PPI being added to the account in May 2000.  
However, Lloyds h as now accepted that the PPI started in 1989, with the first PPI payment 
being charged to the account in December 1989.  
 
In this case Lloyds doesnt have full records for Mr Hs account going back to 1989, which 
isnt surprising as this was over 30 years a go. So, it has looked at the data it actually has 
from 2000 onwards and used this to estimate what Mr H may have paid going back to 
December 1989, using an automated calculation process. This resulted in its updated offer 
of an additional £76.56 after tax.  
 
Whenever estimates are made, it cannot be certain if the consumer paid more or less than 
the estimated premiums used. But the approach taken by most businesses has in the past 
shown to provide fair results. A business is expected to make reasonable assum ptions to 
work out what a consumer may have paid for the PPI.  
 
I can see from when the records started in January 2000 that the way Mr H used his credit 
card account meant that he did not have a balance on the account all the time. PPI is only 
charged when  there is a balance on the account, as is compound interest on the account. 
Between January 2000, when the data starts and November 2002 when the PPI ended, I 
can see that Mr H was only charged PPI premiums on nine occasions in this 35 -month 
period.  
 
The n ine premiums that were charged ranged from one occasion when £10.22 was charged 
down to £0.9p on another. Only two payments, including the £10.22, were over £0.90. In 
making assumptions and estimates for what Mr H may have paid for the PPI before 2000 
Lloyds has used an average of the premiums in the first known 12 months. It has then taken 
that figure and used it as a starting point, working backwards from December 1999 to 
November 1989.  
 
The assumptions Lloyds has made mean that its calculations show PPI was charged every 
month between December 1999 back to November 1989, but only for a small amount.  
Having looked at how Mr H used his account, not just between 2000 and 2002, but going 
forward to 2019, I can see the account fairly consistently had occasiona l balances and 
periods when no balance was on the account at all.  
 
On balance, it is most likely he used the account in the same way going backwards during 
the period with no data. This would mean there were many months when there was no 
balance when Mr H paid nothing for the PPI. But the way Lloyds has applied its 
assumptions means he is being refunded a small amount for every month during this period 
when there is no data.  
 
It is impossible to know exactly how much Mr H paid for the PPI. In order to work out 
compensation some assumptions have to be made. Whilst I understand Mr H feels the 
amount of compensation is low, it is not unreasonable based on the fact Lloyds have 
calculated and assumed something may have been paid every month for the PPI and a very 
small amount of interest would have been caused by these small premiums.  
 
 
 
 
 It is possible Mr H is actually being paid more in compensation than he actually did pay for 
the PPI. But it could be he did pay a little more for the PPI costs. Without any actual data for 
the period the exact amount cannot be identified. And I dont think that the approach taken 
by Lloyds is unfair. Historically Mr H would have had a lower credit balance on the account 
and his spend may have been less than in the years when the average was taken and 
going forward.  
Without any clear data and evidence from either party about the actual costs for the PPI prior 
to January 2000, I think the estimates m ade and approach taken by Lloyds is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this particular case.  
The information I have seen is that Lloyds paid to Mr H £36.42 by faster payment on 29 
October 2019. Its most recent calculation shows that taking in to account the costs prior to 
January 2000, and updating the compensatory interest to July 2020, results in additional 
compensation of £87.24 before tax (£76.56 net) due to be paid to Mr H. This would mean in 
total Mr H would receive £112.98 in compensatio n after tax.  
If the payment of the additional £76.56 has not yet been made, then the amount due may 
change very slightly when the compensatory interest is updated to the date of final payment. 
But I think that £112.98 net compensation, with the compensato ry interest updated as 
necessary to the final payment date, is fair in the circumstances of this case, based on the 
evidence available.  
Lloyds is required to deduct basic rate income tax from the compensatory interest by HM 
Revenue and Customs. If Mr H re quires a tax certificate from Lloyds relating to this tax 
deduction, he should request this directly from Lloyds.  
My final decision  
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis -sold 
PPI that Lloyds Bank PLC has now offered to Mr H to settle his complaint is fair. So I am 
not upholding the complaint that more compensation is due.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.  
Chris Fraser  
Ombudsman  