DRN-4481074
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a number of payments 
made from his account, which he says he didnt agree to make.
What happened
In December 2022, a number of payments were made from Mr Ts NatWest account totalling 
£20,000, which he says he didnt agree to. Mr T says two people he was with at the time 
drugged him and made the payments using his phone. He then later reported the payments 
to NatWest as fraudulent and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
NatWest investigated but said it had spoken to Mr T about two of the payments at the time, 
and he had confirmed they were genuine. It said it didnt think the payments were made 
without his knowledge or consent, so didnt agree to refund them. NatWest did try to recover 
the payments from the bank they were sent to though, and was able to recover £499.37. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought it was likely Mr T had agreed 
to the payments, so they didnt think NatWest should have to refund them. Mr T didnt agree 
with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer authorised the payments  
for example, by making them themselves or telling someone else they could make them.
Deciding whether a customer has authorised payments is a two-part test. Firstly the 
payments must be authenticated, and secondly, the customer must have consented to the 
payments being made. And this doesnt necessarily require proving that the customer made 
the payments themselves, as it is possible for a customer to consent to someone else 
making payments on their account.
NatWest has sent us evidence which shows the payments were all made using Mr Ts 
mobile banking details. This means the payments were correctly authenticated, and so I 
must also think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr T 
consented to the payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr T says he didnt agree to make the payments, and that two people he was with at the 
time drugged him and made the payments using his phone. But he also appears to have 
accepted that he agreed to pay some money to the people he was with, just not as much as 
was actually paid. And some of the messages hes sent us between him and the people he 
was with suggest there was a disagreement about what he was paying for or what he 
received.
NatWest also blocked two of the payments and spoke to Mr T on the phone before allowing 
them to go through. And Ive listened to a recording of this call, as well as of another call 
Mr T made to NatWest shortly beforehand. In these calls, Mr T is able to answer a number of 
security questions about himself and his account. He explains the payments are for holiday 
bookings hes making with friends hes with, and he was able to answer several follow-up 
questions about the holiday and the payments. And his voice sounds clear and coherent 
throughout the calls. So I dont think the calls suggest Mr T was as unaware of or unable to 
understand what was happening as he suggests.
I think the evidence I have suggests Mr T was aware of the payments being made and was 
happy for them to be made at the time. So I think he did consent to the payments.
And so I dont think NatWest has acted unreasonably in holding him liable for these disputed 
transactions on his account, or that it needs to refund the payments to him.
NatWest was able to recover £499.37 from the banks the money was sent to. But, as I think 
it has acted reasonably in holding Mr T liable for the payments and he hasnt suggested he 
was scammed by the people the money was sent to, I dont think it needs to do anything 
further to try to recover the remaining money.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman