DRN-3291276
The complaint
Mr G complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Loans) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr G was given a loan by Everyday Loans. It was for around £3014 and was due to be 
repaid over 24 months. Mr G took this loan out in March 2020 and the monthly repayment 
would be £264.68.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the
checks Everyday Loans had carried out had been proportionate. After reviewing all of the 
documentation sent by both parties, he felt Everyday Loans had made a fair lending 
decision. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator. He said he was in a bad place at the time and was 
gambling heavily. He said if Everyday Loans had seen more of his bank statements it would 
have seen all this and shouldnt have given him the loan.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr G accepts my decision it 
is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to
unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while
deciding Mr Gs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Everyday Loans gave these loans to Mr G required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr G. 
In practice this meant that Everyday Loans had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it 
had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mr G.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Loans did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr G.
Everyday Loans gathered some information from Mr G before it agreed to lend. It asked Mr 
G about his income and expenditure. It says it verified his income by checking a payslip and 
used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess his living expenses. It carried out a 
credit check and used this to work out his credit commitments. It also asked for 2 months 
worth of bank statements from Mr G and checked these also.
Mr G was entering into a significant commitment with Everyday Loans. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of two years for £264.68. This represented a sizable 
proportion of Mr Gs monthly income. So, I think it is right that Everyday Loans wanted to 
gather, and independently check (regarding his income and through the credit search), some 
detailed information about Mr Gs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I 
think that the checks it did achieved that aim. I think on balance its checks were 
proportionate. It was Mr Gs first loan with Everyday Loans and based on his circumstances I 
think it gathered enough information in order to inform its decision to lend. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Everyday Loans gathered from Mr G to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to 
be given the loan.
I can see that Everyday Loans had verified Mr Gs income to be £1610. It recorded down his 
rent to be £350 and after it took into consideration his credit commitments and the loan 
repayment, it could see that his disposable income would be around £308 after he paid off a 
loan with some of the capital from this loan. I have checked the credit search results that 
Everyday Loans would have had in front of it and although they are fairly basic, they do not 
show any concerns that I think ought to have alerted Everyday Loans to not providing the 
loan to Mr G. The bank statements also showed that Mr G was running his personal account 
well. There were some gambling transactions, but I agree with the investigator that the 
transactions showing on the statements that it had in front of it were not overly concerning. 
From the information it gathered from its checks, I think it would have been apparent to 
Everyday Loans that the loan was affordable and there was nothing that it would have had in 
front of it that would have shown it Mr G was struggling to manage his finances. Or anything 
that would have given it concerns that he couldnt repay the loan in a sustainable way.So, overall, I think Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks. In addition, with the 
information it had in front of it, I think it also made a fair decision to lend. So, I dont think 
Everyday Loans was wrong to give the loan to Mr G. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman