DRN-3565772
The complaint
Ms S complains RAC Insurance Limited restricted her freedom to choose a solicitor to 
represent her due to the hourly rate they would agree to pay being too low.
What happened
In around September 2021 Ms S began to pursue a claim against her former employer. In 
November 2021, when it became necessary to issue a claim, she approached RAC for 
assistance under her legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. RAC initially declined the claim 
when their panel solicitors said her legal case didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
But, based on an opinion from Ms Ss counsel, they later accepted it. Ms S wished to appoint 
her own solicitors. RAC agreed, subject to putting their standard terms of appointment in 
place with the solicitors. 
The solicitors wanted to be paid an hourly rate that was higher than RAC were prepared to 
pay. Ms S felt the rate RAC offered was unreasonably low given the complexity of her claim 
and her preference to have an experienced solicitor. She was concerned RACs refusal to 
pay more was leading to delay in issuing her claim. And the delay was increasing the stress 
she was feeling. In the end RAC agreed a rate with the solicitors which allowed Ms Ss claim 
to progress.
The relationship between Ms S and her chosen solicitors deteriorated. In February 2022 she 
asked RAC if she could appoint an alternative solicitor. RAC agreed on the basis theyd pay 
the new solicitors the same hourly rate as the previous firm. The new solicitors wouldnt 
accept that. After some discussion, Ms S agreed a firm on RACs panel should take over her 
case. But she complained her choice of solicitors had been restricted. And she was unhappy 
with a call shed had with one of RACs employees in December 2021.
Since RAC didnt uphold her complaint, an investigator at the Financial Ombudsman 
considered it. Our investigator thought RAC had acted in line with the terms of Ms Ss policy 
in relation to the appointment of solicitors and the rate theyd offered to pay. She didnt think 
Ms Ss freedom to choose a solicitor had been rendered meaningless by the rate RAC was 
prepared to pay. And she didnt think the call had been handled unreasonably by RACs 
employee. So, she didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. Since Ms S didnt agree, her complaints 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficult time Ms S has had and the impact its had on her health. I 
can understand shes been concerned about having appropriate legal representation in 
relation to her employment dispute. 
I may not mention in my decision everything she and RAC have told us. No discourtesy is 
intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Id like to 
reassure the parties Ive considered all the information theyve given us in coming to my 
decision.
We expect insurers to consider claims fairly and promptly in line with Financial Conduct 
Authority rules. The starting point for looking at Ms Ss complaint, with that in mind, is her 
LEI policy.
The policy allowed Ms S to appoint her own solicitors when it became necessary to start 
proceedings. And RAC agreed that could happen. The policy said, Your suggested adviser 
must agree to our Standard Terms of Appointment, which Ill refer to as the Terms. 
Standard Terms of Appointment was defined as The contract which we will require the 
adviser to enter into with us if the adviser is not chosen by us. This contract sets out the 
amounts we will pay the adviser under your policy and their responsibilities to report to us 
at various stages of the claim. A copy of these terms can be requested by contacting us. 
Since Ms Ss solicitors werent party to the insurance contract between Ms S and RAC, the 
policy required a separate contract to be put in place between RAC and the solicitors. Thats 
not unusual in LEI policies and we dont consider it to be unfair. Its reasonable for insurers 
to want control over the costs they are agreeing to pay and to be kept updated as a case 
progresses to ensure policy cover still applies.
The Terms set out that costs would be paid on the standard basis, there was a limit on the 
initial amount of costs that could be incurred, and the hourly rate was £120. Ms S had the 
opportunity of asking to see a copy of the Terms where the hourly rate was clearly set out. 
But the rate itself wasnt set out in the policy, or another document that had been given to  
Ms S before she claimed on the policy. So, Ive thought about whether the rate RAC offered 
was reasonable and in line with the policy which said RAC would meet reasonable, 
proportionate and properly incurred costs. 
Understandably Ms S feels very strongly about her case against her employer. She wanted 
a senior solicitor to represent her on the basis theyd have more experience and be better 
placed to negotiate an early settlement. But its not reasonable for a policyholder to expect to 
be able to choose whichever firm they want at whatever cost and expect an insurer to cover 
all the costs involved. I can understand Ms S felt her case was complex and required a 
senior solicitor. But I think it was fair for RAC to conclude, based on the information available 
to them, that her case wasnt unduly complex. Ms Ss barrister didnt suggest it raised any 
difficult or new legal issues, for example. 
Bearing the parties respective points in mind here, I think it was reasonable for RAC to 
suggest to Ms S the case could be dealt with by a solicitor, supported by a paralegal 
undertaking more administrative tasks. The blended rate of £150 RAC offered reflected the 
court Guideline Hourly Rates in the area where Ms Ss claim was being brought for lawyers 
at that level. So, I think it was fair in the circumstances.
After negotiation, Ms Ss original solicitors agreed to carry out the work at the rate of £150 
RAC offered them. A partner was acting for her. So, the rate RAC offered didnt affect the 
level of experience of the solicitor she was able to instruct at that rate at the time. I 
acknowledge she had concerns about the service that solicitor then provided. But it was 
reasonable for RAC to think the solicitors, as professionals, would provide an appropriate 
level of service whatever the hourly rate. If Ms S wanted to complain about the service her 
solicitors provided, shed need to complain to them direct. If she was unhappy with the 
solicitors response, shed need to take her complaint to their own professional body, the 
Solicitors Regulation Authority. We dont have power to consider complaints about solicitors.
I understand the retainer between Ms S and her original solicitors was unfortunately brought to an end. RAC agreed she could appoint a new firm if they agreed the terms and rate her 
previous firm had accepted. Ms S identified a new solicitor with the level of seniority and 
experience she felt was right for her case. Unfortunately, they wouldnt agree to act for £150 
an hour. 
Ms S felt that because RAC wouldnt pay more, her freedom to choose a solicitor had been 
rendered meaningless. RAC established two of their panel firms with suitable employment 
experience would act for Ms S at £150 an hour. They said her previous solicitors would also 
act at that rate. And Ms S had the option of instructing her preferred solicitors if she topped 
up the fees. So, RAC thought she had a choice about how to proceed.
In fact, the previous solicitors were unwilling to continue to act for Ms S. She said she 
couldnt afford to contribute towards legal fees due to her financial situation. She wasnt 
happy appointing the panel firms due to earlier unsatisfactory experiences of them both. And 
she felt the commercial relationship between RAC and the panel solicitors raised questions 
about their independence. So, I can understand why she felt her options were restricted.
Im not aware Ms S proposed instructing solicitors of her own choosing at the level of 
seniority and experience I think RAC reasonably thought appropriate for her case. But two 
firms, albeit those on RACs panel, confirmed they could act for the hourly rate RAC 
proposed. And Ms S agreed a partner at one of the firms should represent her. 
Although Ms S had some initial concerns about information the solicitors would provide 
about the costs they were incurring  and I understand her wish to keep abreast of costs 
given the £50,000 policy limit  Im not aware of any problems in the handling of her case. 
Theres no evidence the rate the panel solicitors have accepted or their commercial 
relationship with RAC will impact the service they will provide as Ms S fears.
Bearing everything in mind, on balance, I dont think RACs approach has meant Ms Ss 
freedom of choice of solicitor has been rendered meaningless. 
Ive listened to the call Ms S had with RACs representative on 15 December 2021. Ms S 
made it clear she was under a considerable amount of stress at the time. I think, overall, the 
representative was empathetic. He acknowledged Ms Ss concerns, allowed her to talk at 
length and signalled he was listening to what she said. Both the representative and Ms S 
became frustrated during the conversation. Ms S felt the representative had raised his voice 
to her. He didnt feel he had but apologised. The representative explained his reasons why 
he felt the offer to pay an hourly rate of £150 was reasonable, referring to information from 
lawyers involved in the case. Ms S explained why she disagreed. The call ended on 
reasonable terms. 
I can understand why Ms S was upset. She was concerned her legal claim should get 
underway before the festive period and about the time she felt it was taking for agreement 
on the appointment of her solicitors to be reached. But I dont think the representative 
behaved unreasonably. And he provided an acceptable level of service. 
Overall, I think RAC dealt with Ms Ss claim promptly and fairly. They were aware of the 
pressure she was under. They gathered evidence about the prospects of her case; assessed 
the level of legal representation it warranted; and negotiated with her preferred solicitors so 
they could get on with her legal case within a reasonable period. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Ms S will be disappointed with my decision, I 
dont uphold her complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman