DRN-3241778
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about Covea Insurance plcs decision to reject a claim they 
made under their home and buildings insurance policy. 
Mrs H is the main complainant so for ease I will refer to her on behalf of Mr and Mrs H in my 
decision.
What happened
Mrs H reported water damage to her home to their insurer, Covea. 
Covea instructed an agent to attend Mr and Mrs Hs home. The agent didnt find a source for 
an escape of water. They suggested Mr and Mrs H make arrangements for the roof to be 
inspected and this would involve scaffolding. 
Mr and Mrs H wanted Covea to cover the costs of the scaffolding. But Covea didnt agree as 
it said there was no evidence of an insured peril. 
Mrs H said contractors working on their neighbours roof could have caused damage which 
led to the water leaking into their home. She wanted Covea to meet their claim.
Covea instructed an agent to attend with a device to take photos of the roof. Having 
reviewed the photos, Covea maintained its decision that there was no evidence of an 
insured peril. It said any damage to the roof was due to wear and tear. 
Mr and Mrs H asked us to look at their complaint. Our Investigator thought Covea had 
properly investigated their claim and offered a further (third) inspection which Mr and Mrs H 
hadnt agreed to. She considered whether the claim should have been considered due to 
storm damage  as Mrs H says heavy rain had occurred. But the Investigator didnt find 
storm conditions existed at the time. So the Investigator didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Mrs H provided photos of the roof. She says contractors working on their neighbours roof 
most likely caused damage which led to the leak. She says this may have been unintentional 
and so accidental. Mrs H want an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers provide cover for specified insured perils such as storm, flood or theft. This means 
insurers dont provide cover for every eventuality. Covea  like most if not all other insurers  
doesnt provide cover for damage caused gradually.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy with Covea provides cover in the event of an escape of water. It 
defines the cover as follows:
loss or damage by water as a result of a burst, frozen, leaking or overflowing fixed 
domestic drain, water or heating installation, kitchen appliance or fixed domestic 
water piping/pipes.
The agent appointed by Covea to inspect Mr and Mrs Hs home didnt find evidence to 
support the claim for an escape of water. 
Mrs H says Covea should cover the costs of scaffolding and highlighted the following term 
under the policy:
Trace and access  we will pay the costs, which we have agreed to in advance, for 
locating the source of water or oil damage including the reinstatement of any wall, 
flooring or ceiling removed or damaged during the search and the repair of any 
leaking water or oil pipes.
However, as Covea made it clear it wouldnt cover the costs of scaffolding in advance, I dont 
think it acted unreasonably. 
As Mrs H didnt agree with the agents findings, she asked a roofer to provide further 
information. Mrs Hs roofer said he believed the damage to the roof had been caused by a 
tube being dropped by the neighbours contractors when erecting scaffolding for works next 
door  and that a tube may have caused a crack which led to the water leak. 
But there isnt any evidence of this to support the roofers opinion. 
Mrs H told Covea she couldnt find a plumber to attend their home and so was unable to 
provide an independent report. So Covea offered for a different independent loss assessor 
to attend their home in order to determine the cause of damage. 
But Mrs H didnt agree to this. She had concerns as to whether a loss assessor appointed by 
Covea would provide an independent report. 
I appreciate Mrs H is unhappy with the outcome. But having reviewed everything I dont think 
Covea acted unreasonably. It arranged for an agent to attend twice to establish whether an 
insured peril occurred. It considered Mrs Hs roofers view. And it offered for a further 
independent inspection to take place to reconsider Mr and Mrs Hs claim. I havent seen 
anything to show the claim should be covered as accidental damage, storm damage or an 
escape of water claim. 
So I think Covea properly investigated their claim and its decision to reject it was reasonable 
and in line with the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman