DRN-3605284
The complaint
Mrs R complains QIC Europe Ltd has unfairly declined her equine insurance claim. 
Any reference to Mrs R and QIC includes the actions of their respective representatives and 
agents.
What happened
Mrs R has an equine insurance policy for her horse, who Ill refer to as Y. 
The policy was taken out on 7 March 2019 and its underwritten by QIC.  
In August 2019, Mrs R notified QIC that Y had hurt its leg and that the vet thought 
there was a foreign body in Ys limb. 
QIC provided the claim forms which Mrs R returned in June 2020, along with invoices 
for veterinary treatment.
The claim form said the injury was first noticed on 3 March 2019 - which was before 
the policy was taken out. QIC said there wasnt cover for pre-existing conditions, and 
so the claim was declined.
Mrs R said the wrong date had been put on claim form and that it should have been   
3 April 2019. 
Clinical notes show a vet visited Y on 8 March 2019 to administer vaccinations  a 
physical examination wasnt completed at the time.
A vet saw Y on 11 and 24 April 2019 to look at the wound. The attending vets clinical 
notes say: horse had a LF mid cannon bone struck on a fence when was jumping 
about 2 months ago [] The wound healed well, but it has burst and there is proud 
flesh there. It seems there is some bone remodelling on palpation. 
QIC said an independent vet had looked at the clinical notes and said it was unlikely 
 due to the nature of the wound  that it had only occurred a week prior to 11 April 
2019.
Mrs R brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator considered it but wasnt 
persuaded the injury had occurred after the policy was taken out. 
Mrs R remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy document which says under the heading general 
policy exclusions that any incident, illness, injury or disease that manifested, was 
present, or had been previously diagnosed in the horse before the start of your policy 
is not covered.
This is repeated in the policy schedule which says, This policy will not cover any 
accidents, sicknesses or diseased which occurred or were present before the start 
date of this insurance policy. 
So, Im satisfied it was made clear to Mrs R that a pre-existing illness or injury 
wouldnt be covered. But the key issue here is whether its reasonable for QIC to rely 
on this exclusion in the circumstances of this specific complaint. 
Ive looked at the claim form and can see that in response to the question When did 
you first notice that the horse had suffered an accident or was sick? Mrs R said               
3 March 2019 and that the vet attended on 8 March 2019. So, on the face of it, it 
would be reasonable to conclude the injury occurred before the policy had started. 
But Mrs R has said that this date was written in error and that it was instead                     
April 2019 when the injury became apparent because of the wound having opened. 
So, Ive considered the available evidence to decide what I think most likely 
happened. 
The clinical notes from the vet in April 2019, say: The owner reports that, due to the 
nature of the initial injury, the timing of the trauma is uncertain but could be between 
the previous week to approximately 2 months prior to 11 April 2019 visit.  It goes on 
to say, The initial wound had been treated by the owners and was reported to have 
healed well.
The report is written by an experienced and highly qualified vet  so Ive no reason to 
doubt the notes are an accurate reflection of what the vet was told at the time. 
However, because the vet doesnt give an opinion as to when the injury did occur, I 
dont find it particularly helpful in determining whether the injury was pre-existing. 
But I do note that there is reference to the wound having been treated and having 
healed well  which suggests thered been a period long enough for healing to 
having taken place. This is supported by the independent vet who reviewed the 
clinical notes and said, proud flesh is a feature of chronic not acute wounds and is 
usually associated with foreign body. The vet concludes: My opinion would be that 
the clinical features described on 11/04/2019 would be more consistent with an injury 
that occurred in February 2019 than one that had occurred only the week previously.
This evidence, along with the fact the claim form said the injury occurred in                      
March 2019, persuades me it most likely pre-existed the policy start date.
For completeness, Im not persuaded by Mrs Rs argument that had there been an 
issue in March 2019 the vet who vaccinated Y would have seen it or been told about 
it. I say this because Ive heard testimony from Ys vet in which he said it is standard 
practice at Ys veterinary Practice for vaccinations to be administered without a 
physical examination taking place. I know my decision will be disappointing for Mrs R, but Im satisfied that QIC has 
fairly declined the claim based on the condition in question being a pre-existing 
condition. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman