DRN-3247062
Complaint
Mr D has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank) 
unfairly continued applying charges to his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that M&S ought to have 
realised that Mr D was struggling by January 2020 at the latest. M&S disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M&S will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think M&S acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest, fees and charges to Mr Ds overdraft from January 2020. By this 
point, it was evident Mr D was struggling. His statements leading up to this period show that 
hed spent increasing time in his overdraft and was regularly exceeding his limit. I also think 
that, despite the attempts to mask it, it was clear that Mr D was gambling heavily. 
So at this point, I think that M&S ought to have realised that Mr D was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay his overdraft and should have stopped providing it on the same terms. It 
should have instead treated Mr D with forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective 
action in relation to the facility. All of this means that M&S should have realised that Mr D 
wasnt using his overdraft as intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had 
become unsustainable shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what M&S has said about the fact that this is 
a current account and as a result wont have been monitored in the same way as a credit 
card, as Mr D was spending his own money. But I dont think this is true as Mr D was using 
an overdraft on his current account. And when doing so he was using M&S money rather 
than his own. In these circumstances, in much the same way as if Mr D had a credit card, 
M&S had a clear obligation to monitor Mr Ds account and act appropriately in the event it 
appeared Mr D might be struggling.
As M&S didnt react to Mr Ds overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. Mr D ended up paying additional interest, 
fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when he was already experiencing difficulty. So I 
think that Mr D lost out because of what M&S did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what M&S needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for M&S to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2020 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made M&S should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr D 
is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with M&S to reach a suitable 
agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Ds credit file, it should reflect what wouldve been recorded if it had started 
the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 2020. M&S can 
also reduce Mr Ds overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over his limit.
OR
If removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the 
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then M&S should remove 
any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. M&S can also reduce Mr Ds 
overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires M&S to take off tax from this interest. M&S must give  
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman