DRN-2713633
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) kept a lump sum that was paid out by 
a critical illness policy hed taken out.
What happened
In 2003, Mr M applied for an overdraft with BOI for his business account. BOI insisted that 
Mr M take out life insurance cover as a guarantee for the overdraft facility, and Mr M also 
took critical illness cover for his own benefit as an addition to the life insurance policy at that 
time. 
Sadly, some time later, Mr M was diagnosed with a critical illness which resulted in Mr M 
having to close his business at a time when his BOI business account was significantly 
overdrawn. When Mr M then made a successful claim against the critical illness policy, BOI 
kept the received sum and applied it toward clearing the balance outstanding on Mr Ms 
business overdraft. 
Mr M wasnt happy about this, or that BOI had continued to apply interest and charges to the 
business account after he had informed them about his critical illness. So, he made a 
complaint.
BOI looked at Mr Ms complaint, but they noted that all aspects of the insurance policy had 
been assigned to them by Mr M including the critical illness cover. They also noted that the 
proceeds of the policy hadnt been enough to clear the balance owing on the overdraft, but 
that they had written off the remaining balance as a gesture of goodwill. 
Finally, BOI noted that while they had continued to apply interest and charges to the account 
following Mr M informing them of his critical illness diagnosis, these interest and charges had 
been written off as part of the goodwill balance write off referred to previously. Because of 
this, BOI didnt feel that they had acted unfairly toward Mr M, and they didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with BOIs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also noted that Mr M had assigned the 
critical illness policy to BOI and so they didnt feel that BOI had acted unfairly by keeping the 
proceeds of that policy, especially as BOI had applied these proceeds towards clearing a 
portion of the outstanding balance that was owed to them by Mr M.
And, while our investigator felt that it would have been good practice for BOI to have not 
continued to apply interest and fees to the account following Mr M informing them of his 
critical illness, they were satisfied that BOI had subsequently written off an amount of Mr Ms 
debt which was greater than the interest and charges that had been accrued. So, in 
consideration of these points, they also didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its only natural to sympathise with Mr M here having learning of the diagnosis that he 
received, and its clear from the correspondence on the file that Mr M has been through, and 
continues to go through, some very difficult times.
It also must be noted that the event under consideration here  namely, the taking out of the 
life insurance policy and the attached critical illness policy  took place approximately 18 
years ago, in 2003. This means that several documents that might help clarify certain 
aspects of this complaint, including documents surrounding the taking of the policies which 
might confirm which aspects of the policies were a requirement of BOI and which werent, 
arent available. And this service wouldnt expect the full suite of such documents to have 
survived such a lengthy passage of time.
In situations like this, where there is an absence of direct information, I have to make 
decisions based on the evidence and information that is available to me, including personal 
testimonies, and form an opinion of what I believe, on balance, is most likely to have taken 
place  if it is possible to do so.
In this instance, a key consideration is whether it was fair for BOI to have retained the 
proceeds from the critical illness policy that Mr M took out in 2003.
Mr M contends that BOI shouldnt have retained the proceeds of that policy, and this is 
because BOI had only insisted that Mr M take out life insurance as security for the business 
overdraft that hed requested, and that the critical illness policy had been taken out by Mr M 
as an addition to the life insurance policy above and beyond what BOI had requested and for 
his own personal benefit, rather than for BOIs benefit as additional security for the 
requested business overdraft.
No documents survive from 2003 which confirm exactly what form of security BOI requested 
from Mr M as a condition to their approving Mr M for the business overdraft he was applying 
for. This means that its impossible to state definitively whether critical illness cover was 
required by BOI along with life insurance, or not.
Mr M has provided the testimony of his financial advisor at that time who has stated his 
recollection that BOI only requested life insurance and that Mr M added the critical illness 
cover to the life insurance policy as an additional element for his own benefit and not for the 
benefit of BOI.
However, one of the documents that does survive demonstrates clearly that Mr M did assign 
the full policy, including the critical illness cover, to BOI. And, while it may have been the 
case that Mr M intended the critical illness policy to have been for his own benefit at the time 
that he took it out, it is demonstrably the case that Mr M then assigned the critical illness 
policy to BOI so that any proceeds from that policy might be used by BOI to clear any 
existing debts that he might have with them at that time. 
This is important, and its difficult to find fault with BOI for retaining the proceeds of a policy 
that was assigned to them by Mr M. And this is especially the case given that the overdraft 
facility had an amount outstanding of approximately £70,000 at the time that BOI received 
the proceeds from the critical illness policy, such that the proceeds of that policy, which were 
approximately £50,000, didnt completely clear the full outstanding balance.This means that Id find it very difficult to consider instructing BOI to reimburse Mr M an 
amount equivalent to the proceeds of the critical illness policy - as Mr M would like here - 
and I say this because Mr M did assign the policy to BOI, and the policy did fulfil the function 
that it would be expected to fulfil having been assigned to BOI  that is, it provided BOI with 
security against Mr M being diagnosed with a critical illness at a time when there was a 
significant balance owed to them by Mr M on his business overdraft.
Mr M is also unhappy that BOI continued to apply interest and charges to his business 
account following BOI being informed by Mr M that he had a critical illness. And, having 
reviewed the account statements, its clear that interest and charges did continue to be 
applied by BOI.
However, following the applying of the proceeds of the critical illness policy to Mr Ms 
overdraft account, which as explained above took the outstanding balance owed on the 
account down to approximately £20,000, BOI made the decision to write off this remaining 
£20,000 and close Mr Ms business account.
Mr M closed his business in 2015, and, given that this was a business account and that Mr 
M had informed BOI that he had been diagnosed with a critical illness, it would be expected 
by this service that BOI wouldnt have applied interest and charges to the account following 
the closure of Mr Ms business  although I feel that it would be both fair and reasonable for 
BOI to have continued to apply interest and charges to the account until that time, during the 
time that Mr Ms business continued to operate.
Having conducted a calculation of the interest and charges that were applied to the business 
account following the closure of Mr Ms business in 2015, its apparent that the total interest 
and charges accrued is approximately £18,000. 
This means that the interest and charges accrued on the account after Mr M closed his 
business were approximately £2,000 less than BOI elected to write off when they wrote off 
the approximately £20,000 balance that remained outstanding following their applying the 
proceeds of the critical illness policy to the business account when those proceeds had been 
received. 
Where this service feels that a business shouldnt have applied interest and charges to an 
account, we would normally instruct that business to reimburse the interest and charges 
back to the relevant account. 
But BOI have effectively already done that here  when they wrote off the remaining balance 
of approximately £20,000 that Mr M still owed. And indeed, BOI went beyond that, and wrote 
off approximately £2,000 more that the total interest and charges that had been applied to 
the account following the closure of Mr Ms business, as explained above.
Considering all of the above, its very difficult for me to conclude that BOI have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably here in regard to their applying the proceeds of the critical illness policy that 
had been assigned to them by Mr M towards clearing the balance owing on Mr Ms business 
account at that time, or in how they wrote off the remaining balance of that account which 
effectively reimbursed the interest and charges applied to the account for the time period 
after Mr Ms business has ceased to operate. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking BOI to take any further action at this time. 
I hope that Mr M can understand, given everything Ive explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman