DRN-2039320
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that British Gas Insurance Limited mishandled his home emergency
insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for
their actions.
Mr W has told us that his central heating boiler had been maintained with the correct central
heating chemicals since he purchased the property new in April 1987. The boiler was of a
model that was last manufactured in 1991.
In about 2014 Mr W took out British Gas Boiler and Controls Breakdown Cover. The policy
was an annual one. Mr W was paying the annual premium by instalments on the first day of
each month.
Mr W didnt call British Gas for help until August 2019. On 8 August 2019 British Gas told
him the heat exchanger was scaled, and the manufacturer had stopped making such parts
for his boiler over 10 years previously. Mr W cancelled the policy on the same day.
Mr W bought a new boiler. He complained that hed been paying for insurance that he could
never benefit from. He asked for a refund of all premiums since the start of the policy.
British Gas refunded £51.57 that Mr W had paid for the policy period from April to August
2019. By a final response dated 10 September 2019 British Gas said it was also refunding
what he had paid for the previous two policy years from April 2018 and April 2017.
Mr W brought his complaint to us in mid-September 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
British Gas had done enough to put matters right for Mr W. She said British Gas had sent an
extensive list of parts still available to it for the old boiler.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to British Gas on 26 June 2020. I summarise my findings:
Without having told him before that it might not be able to find them, British Gas 
couldnt get hold of the parts it needed to fix Mr Ws boiler in August 2019. He had 
made no previous claim.
The British Gas final response said it was refunding £118.90 and £125.99 for the 
policy years from April 2017 and April 2018 respectively. It had already refunded 
£51.57 for the policy period from April 2019 to the cancellation in August 2019. In 
total these payments cover the period of about 28 months from April 2017 to August 
2019.
In addition, there must have been money Mr W had paid for the period of about 8 
months from August 2016 to April 2017 that fell within the maximum of three years. 
Subject to any further information from Mr W or from British Gas, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to:
1. inform Mr W of the date and amount of each payment he made for cover for the
period 9 August 2016 to 12 April 2017; and
2. refund Mr W each such amount; and
3. pay Mr W simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on each such amount from the date 
he paid it to the date British Gas refunds it. If British Gas considers that HM Revenue 
and Customs requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr W 
how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
British Gas agreed with the provisional decision.
Mr W disagreed in part. He says, in summary, that:
At inception of the policy he told British Gas the make and model of his boiler.
Upon dissection of the old heat exchanger there is no evidence of alleged scaling or 
blockage.
The policy terms from April 2014 to April 2016 didnt include a 3- year maximum 
refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the manufacturer stopped in about 2005 making spare parts for Mr Ws model
of boiler. In British Gas terminology it was on a reduced service list (RSL).
There is a shortage of evidence from when Mr W took out the policy. He has recently said 
that he told British Gas the make and model of his boiler. But that wouldnt make any 
difference to my decision because I dont accept that the policy was one from which Mr W 
could never have benefitted.
I have seen a renewal letter for the year from 13 April 2014 for Boiler and Controls 
Breakdown Cover. That included cover for repairs.
But it didnt include a first service visit or an annual service visit. And, as it happened, Mr W
didnt call British Gas for a repair visit for several years. 
Under its policy terms, British Gas wouldve been entitled to use generic parts to make a
repair. And I accept its evidence that many parts were still available for the old boiler. So I 
dont accept that the policy was one from which Mr W could never have benefitted. AndI dont uphold his complaint that British Gas should refund all he had paid.
8 August 2019 was the only time British Gas visited and looked at the boiler. I accept Mr Ws
evidence that British Gas reported as follows:
Boiler scaled - Parts Obsolete Heat exchanger
When he brought his complaint to British Gas and to us in 2019, Mr W didnt say that British
Gas had wrongly diagnosed a blocked heat exchanger. And he didnt say that a replacement
was still available. Those are new complaints which British Gas and if necessary my
colleagues will have to deal with separately. So I make no finding about whether the heat 
exchanger was scaled or blocked in August 2019.
The policy terms had been updated almost every year. From at least the renewal in April
2014, the terms included the following:
If you have Boiler and Controls Breakdown Cover or Central Heating Breakdown 
Cover and we cannot complete a repair because parts are not available and we have 
not advised you previously we will, at our discretion, refund a maximum of 3 years 
premium if cover has been continuously held for this period and no claims have been 
made.
Since at least the renewal in April 2016, the terms included the following:
Where you have Boiler and Controls Breakdown Cover or Central Heating 
Breakdown Cover; and
 We cant get hold of the parts we need to fix your boiler and controls or central 
heating
 And, we havent told you before that we may not be able to find them
well refund any money you have paid for these products since your last claim, up to 
a maximum of three years.
So the policy terms applicable from April 2014 to August 2019 included a 3- year maximum 
refund.
Ive found that Mr W had Boiler and Controls Breakdown Cover and that  without having
told him before that it might not be able to find them  British Gas couldnt get hold of the
parts it needed to fix his boiler in August 2019. He had made no previous claim.
The British Gas final response said it was refunding £118.90 and £125.99 for the policy
years from April 2017 and April 2018 respectively. It had already refunded £51.57 for the
policy period from April 2019 to the cancellation in August 2019. In total these payments
cover the period of about 28 months from April 2017 to August 2019.
Putting things right
In addition, there must have been money Mr W had paid for the period of about 8 months
from August 2016 to April 2017 that fell within the maximum of three years. So I find it fair to 
direct British Gas to refund such money, with interest at our usual rate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in
part. I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:1. inform Mr W of the date and amount of each payment he made for cover for the 
period 9 August 2016 to 12 April 2017; and
2. refund Mr W each such amount; and
3. pay Mr W simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on each such amount from the date 
he paid it to the date British Gas refunds it. If British Gas considers that HM Revenue 
and Customs requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr W 
how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman