DRN-1574073
Complaint
Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
when he took out a new credit card in 2000. 
Background
I can see that Mr D has already been offered some money for the commission Barclays 
received from selling him the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail 
and didnt think Mr D had actually been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Mr D disagreed and still thought he had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place, so he asked 
that an ombudsman make a final decision about his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Barclays sent us a copy of the postal application form Mr D used during his card application. 
I see he was presented with a yes / no choice about having PPI with his new card and he 
chose the yes option for PPI to be added. I also see his credit card statements 
subsequently showed he was paying for PPI over the following years. So I think these things 
strongly show he both asked for PPI and would have been aware it was activated on his 
account. Mr D also mentions he made a claim on the policy around 10 years ago.
As a postal sale, Mr D would have probably filled out the application in his own time and 
without any intervention from Barclays. Barclays therefore didnt provide an advised sale so 
it needed only to provide him with enough information so he could decide for himself whether 
or not he wanted PPI and whether it was right for him.
Im aware these forms were usually attached to a wider leaflet which explained some of the 
costs and benefits. Nevertheless, I can accept Barclays might have done more to explain the 
PPI policy. But overall, I think Mr D still probably had enough information on which to make 
an informed decision. 
I also dont think Mr D was caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies. And because it cost £0.75 for every £100 outstanding on his monthly credit card 
balance, I think it would have been affordable for Mr D. In the event of a successful claim on 
the PPI policy, Mr D would have also been able to have his outstanding balance reduced by 
10% each month for up to 12 months. 
So looking at his overall situation, I think this is probably why he chose the PPI on his 
application  I think he wanted the cover at the time.All this means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But it has 
agreed to pay back to Mr D the commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Mr D any extra interest Mr D paid 
because of that. Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr D the 
difference between what Mr D owes and what he would have owed if the commission and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr 
D 8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
But it does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman