DRN-2649445
The complaint
Mr D complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds proposal to deal with a subsidence 
claim made under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D made a claim after noticing cracking at his property. Fairmead accepted a claim for 
subsidence. This was being caused by shrinkage of clay soil caused by nearby vegetation. 
One tree (owned by Mr D) was removed at the front of the property, but there were still trees 
at the rear of the property that it was thought may be contributing to the movement. Those 
trees are owned by a third party.
Fairmead didnt think the third party would agree to the removal of the trees (because of the 
site in which they were located), and so it initially decided to see if a root barrier system 
would be appropriate to stabilise the property. It wanted to arrange for a company to carry 
out an inspection to establish this. However, before it could arrange this, Mr D disagreed 
with Fairmeads proposals. He said his engineer thought the property needed to be 
underpinned, and didnt think a root barrier system would be appropriate.
In response to this, Fairmead said it could make a cash settlement for the cost of the root 
barrier system and Mr D could arrange his own underpinning. Mr D didnt agree to this. 
Fairmead then learnt that the third party had agreed to the removal of a tree a few years 
earlier when a nearby property had experienced subsidence. It therefore offered to appoint 
an arboriculturist to provide advice on what tree management would be required (in 
conjunction with monitoring). If it was established that tree/s at the rear were still causing 
movement (and those trees could be identified), it intended to ask the third party if the tree/s 
could be removed. If that wasnt possible, it could consider other options, such as a root 
barrier system.
Mr D brought a complaint to this service. He still thinks Fairmead should underpin his 
property, as thats the advice he received from his engineer.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Fairmeads proposal 
sounded fair. He said if the trees were removed or a root barrier installed and this didnt 
provide an effective and lasting repair, then Mr D would be entitled to ask Fairmead to 
consider taking other action.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D appointed a firm of engineers to carry out an inspection (that Ill call Company C). 
Company C observed that there was substantial cracking at the property, and thought this 
was due to the affect of nearby vegetation on the clay soil. They said that, subject to further 
site investigations, a scheme of underpinning works would need to be carried out with crack 
repairs to the property. 
Fairmead doesnt think its been shown that underpinning is necessary at the moment. I 
understand that Mr D has allowed monitoring to take place at his property, but an 
arboriculturist hasnt yet carried out an inspection. Fairmead says the monitoring shows that 
theres been no significant movement at the property since October 2020.
Given the subsidence has been caused by the impact of vegetation on the clay soil, I 
assume the monitoring would need to continue throughout spring and summer to see 
whether the remaining trees are still causing movement. 
So long as its established that there is still ongoing movement, then if Mr Ds property can 
be stabilised through the removal of the trees, then thered be no need for Fairmead to 
consider other options (such as a root barrier or underpinning). I think it was therefore 
appropriate for Fairmead to offer to appoint an arboriculturist to provide an opinion on the 
matter. I dont agree with Mr D that Fairmead needs to carry out underpinning at this stage.
If its established that the trees to the rear are causing movement and the third party refuses 
to remove them, I would then expect Fairmead to consider the next steps to stabilise the 
property. Fairmead would be guided by the advice of its experts about those steps. 
Ive noted that Company C are of the opinion that the installation of a root barrier wont 
provide an effective repair, though they havent said why that is. It wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to comment at this stage on whether a root barrier would be effective or not, as 
Fairmead hasnt obtained any expert advice about this.
Mr D is concerned that hes obtained a structural report which has recommended 
underpinning, but Fairmead hasnt agreed to do this. He thinks that if Fairmead later goes 
ahead with the root barrier system, any future structural assessment of the property would 
fail. 
I can understand Mr Ds concerns. However, although one engineer thought the property 
needed to be underpinned, that doesnt necessarily mean that underpinning is the only 
solution to the ongoing movement. 
If the trees cant be removed in order to stop any ongoing movement, then Fairmead will 
need to provide an effective and long-lasting solution to this. Regardless of whether that 
ends up happening as a result of a root barrier system or some other means (such as 
underpinning), Fairmead will need to continue monitoring to ensure the movement has 
stopped as a result of its actions. It should then provide Mr D with a certificate of structural 
adequacy. This will provide Mr D (and any future buyer of the property) with reassurance 
that the repairs stopped the ongoing movement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman