DRN-4175194
The complaint
Mr H complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
In making this complaint Mr H is represented by a third-party, but for the ease of reading Ill 
refer to Mr H throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr H made two payments to a third-party (who I will call A), as follows:
Date account debited Payment type Amount
28/09/2021 International Transfer £9 (Euros 10 approx.)
05/10/2021 International Transfer £2,588 (Euros 2,989 
approx.)
Mr H later realised hed been the victim of a type of scam known as a romance scam  
having met someone (who I will call B) through a dating app. He complained to Starling 
(around a year later) about the payments as he didnt think it had done enough to prevent 
him from falling victim to the scam.
Starling didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had completed due diligence by contacting     
Mr H and requesting further information about the second larger payment.
 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr H referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it and upheld the complaint. He said that the first payment  given 
the low value, wouldnt have been considered as suspicious by Starling. But, while he 
acknowledged that Starling had spoken to Mr H about the second payment, he didnt think it 
had done enough to warn Mr H that the payment he was making had the hallmarks of a 
scam. He recommended that Starling should compensate Mr H for the loss he has suffered 
as a result of the second payment. 
 
Mr H accepted the investigators findings, but Starling didnt agree. It said  in summary, it 
had blocked the transaction and contacted Mr H before releasing it. It added that the 
investigator hadnt put enough onus on Mr H. 
The investigator considered what Starling said, but he didnt alter the outcome he had 
previously reached. He said Mr H was a victim of a sophisticated scam, and he didnt think 
that the documentation he had provided Starling was enough for it to lift the block it had 
originally placed on the payment.
As agreement couldnt be reached Starling asked for an ombudsmans review. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator previously set out. 
The starting position in law is that Mr H is responsible for payments hes authorised himself. 
But Starling also has an obligation to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions which might, among other things, indicate its customer was at risk of financial 
harm from fraud. So, the first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr Hs payment instructions 
were particularly unusual or uncharacteristic, when looking at the normal payments on his 
account. 
The first payment Mr H made to A was for 10 Euros (£9 approx.). Like the investigator, given 
the low value of the payment, I dont find that there was enough suspicion about the 
transaction that I wouldve expected Starling to intervene. 
Starling accepts that it had concerns about the second payment. And its not in dispute that 
Starling contacted Mr H about it. So, what I need to decide is whether Starlings intervention 
went far enough to prevent Mr H falling victim to a scam. 
Ive seen that Starling provided a warning about potential scams when Mr H first set up a 
new payee for these transactions. Ive also seen that Starling asked him about his 
relationship with A and B and blocked the payment at one point. These steps and additional 
checks are what I would expect Starling to take.
But having listened to the call recording, Im not persuaded that the questions Starling asked 
Mr H went far enough. But, even based on the limited questions asked, Im persuaded               
Mr Hs answers  he admitted to not having met A or B and he told Starling that A was a 
friend of B not his friend, should have prompted Starling to warn him that the payment he 
was making had the hallmarks of a scam. But it didnt do so. So, Im not persuaded that 
Starling did enough here to put Mr H on notice that he was potentially being scammed.  
I appreciate that Starling still had concerns after this call and restricted Mr Hs account. And 
Ive seen that it contacted Mr H to ask more details about the payment. But Mr H didnt 
provide all the evidence Starling asked for  such as, evidence of the conversations hed had 
with B. Ive seen Mr H sent Starling a copy of a loan agreement that B had signed as 
evidence that there was an agreement in place for the money to be repaid. But I find that the 
provision of this document should have been of significant concern to Starling  particularly 
as the loan agreement set out the money was supposedly being provided so B could access 
his inheritance, which is typical hallmark of a scam. But again, Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me that Starling explained to Mr H the reasons for its concerns. Given the information that Starling had gathered and the concerns it clearly had, Im not 
satisfied that the loan agreement (which was also between Mr H and B not A - who the 
money was being sent to) was sufficient for it to have released the payment. While I 
appreciate Mr H later became insistent that the payment was sent, like the investigator, I 
think Starling should have engaged Mr H in the reasons for its concerns. Had it done so, I 
think its most likely that Mr H would have then had more understanding as to why Starling 
had initially blocked the payment and was asking questions about it. And, ultimately, Im 
persuaded he wouldnt have made the second payment.
Ive gone on to consider whether Starling met the standards Id reasonably expect of it in 
terms of attempting to recover these payments from the beneficiary bank. And Im 
persuaded it did. Starling has explained that it contacted the beneficiary bank but didnt get a 
response. Given the time that had passed before Mr H contacted Starling about this matter, I 
find its most unlikely that Starling would have been able to recover the payments. When an 
international payment is made any recovery attempt is made on a best endeavours basis 
and relies on both the money still being present in the beneficiary account and the 
willingness of the receiving bank to give it back. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr H should bear some responsibility for the loss he has 
suffered, and whether he acted reasonably in the circumstances. But, in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, I think Mr H acted reasonably. This was a sophisticated 
romance scam and Im persuaded Mr H thought hed made a genuine romantic connection 
with B  they shared photographs and engaged in conversations on a personal mobile app. 
He also made attempts to protect himself by asking B to enter into a loan agreement. But Im 
not persuaded that this meant Mr H thought he was being scammed. I think its more likely 
he simply thought he was taking normal precautions to ensure the money he was lending 
would be repaid.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr H would have known he was the target for a sophisticated 
scam. I find that Starling was better placed to pick up on the potential significance of what  
Mr H was saying and the documentation he provided. As I have already explained, banks 
should be on the lookout for the possibility of financial harm, and I find that Starling missed 
opportunities to engage with Mr H about the payment he was intending to make. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Starling should fairly and reasonably compensate Mr H for 
the loss he has suffered as a result of the second payment.
Ive considered whether Starling should pay Mr H compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of this matter. But the primary cause of the 
distress Mr H experienced was caused by the fraudster not Starling, and that isnt something 
I can award compensation for. 
Finally, while I understand why Mr H chose to instruct a third-party representative, he was 
able to refer his complaint to our service free of charge. So, I make no award for any costs 
he has incurred by his decision to use a third-party representative.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Starling Bank Limited should now:
Refund Mr H the value of the second payment - £2,588 including any fees associated 
with that payment.
Pay Mr H 8% simple interest per annum from the time he made the second payment 
until date of settlement.
Refund any overdraft fees and interest incurred as a result of the second payment. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman