DRN-3266858
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly registered a late payment marker on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr W says his HSBC credit card was in credit and bought an item in February 2021. He says 
he called HSBC to make a payment but couldnt complete security as he says HSBC had 
increased his credit limit which he was unaware of. Mr W says he was told he would be sent 
new security information to be able to access his account but didnt receive this. In summary 
Mr W says he tried to make a payment to HSBC but couldnt do so. He says it is unfair to 
register adverse information on his credit file in those circumstances and would like it 
removed.
HSBC says it spoke to Mr W and told him how he could make a payment and also told Mr 
Ws mother during a telephone call how much he owed as well as how to make a payment. It 
says it correctly registered late payment markers on Mr Ws credit file when required 
payments were not made. HSBC accepts it gave Mr W poor service in respect of part of the 
complaint and paid £100 compensation. It says it sent the security information to Mr W but 
isnt responsible for the safe delivery of the mail. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr W didnt make a required payment in early 2020. And was due to 
make a payment in February 2021 following a transaction he made. The investigator listened 
to the telephone calls between both parties and thought HSBC explained to Mr W how he 
could make a payment. The investigator didnt think Mr W did make the required payments 
and thought HSBC was entitled to register the later payment markers. The investigator 
thought the compensation award appropriate.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says he didnt receive the security information so that he 
could access his account. He questions how he was later able to pass the security questions 
and maintains the adverse information on his credit file was unfairly reported.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision. I dont intend to comment on the 
compensation award in this decision as I can see that is not the main part of the complaint. 
Im satisfied this complaint is about the fairness of reporting the missed payments to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) in these circumstances.
I have listened to the telephone calls between HSBC and Mr W. I appreciate Mr W was 
unable to access his HSBC account online and asked for new security information to be sent 
to him so that he could access his account. Im satisfied that having looked at HSBCs 
records that information was sent but I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for the safe 
delivery of mail. 
I dont think it clear how long Mr W was unable to access his account but can see that Mr W 
was aware that the account was in credit. I have looked at Mr Ws account statements and 
can see that Mr Ws account was in credit by about £15 for some months before he made a 
further purchase for just over £44 in early February 2021. Im satisfied that Mr W made that 
purchase and so ought to have been aware that he owed HSBC money. I dont think it clear 
when Mr W had last looked at his account statements but Im satisfied during the telephone 
calls with HSBC he was told on number of occasions how to make a payment to HSBC and 
that he didnt need online account access to do so. I would have expected Mr W to have 
made a payment to HSBC and think, even if he didnt know the exact amount, he ought 
reasonably to have known approximately how much he owed. If Mr W had made a payment 
that of course would have avoided the missed payment marker until the online access had 
been restored.
I am sure Mr W appreciates that banks and building societies are obliged to report the 
accurate position of their customers accounts to the CRAs. Im satisfied that information is 
made clear in the account terms and conditions of Mr Ws account and can see that Mr W 
was aware that he needed to make a payment to avoid such adverse information being 
recorded on his credit file. So, In those circumstances I would have expected Mr W to have 
made a payment he knew was required and I dont think the security information that he 
says he didnt receive should have made any difference to a payment being made.
I appreciate Mr W questions why he was given different information about his account in a 
later telephone call with HSBC. I dont know why that was the case or is the real issue here 
as I have made clear that this was Mr Ws account. And that it was his responsibility to 
manage it as well as make sure payments were made on time. I also think that Mr W ought 
reasonably to have been aware that in early 2020 a late payment was made which is likely to 
have been recorded on his credit file.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC was obliged to register the late payments in these 
circumstances. It follows that I cant fairly order HSBC remove them from Mr Ws credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman