DRN-4328526
The complaint
Mr M complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a theft claim he made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M is insured under a group travel insurance policy as a benefit of his bank account.
In September 2022, Mr M travelled to a UK city. Unfortunately, while he was out for dinner 
with a friend, the car he was driving was broken into and a number of items were stolen. Mr 
M made a claim on the travel insurance policy. It appears that he told AWP that hed 
travelled for both leisure and business purposes.
AWP turned down Mr Ms claim. It said that benefits were only available under the policy if a 
trip was undertaken for leisure purposes only. Business trips were specifically excluded from 
cover. As Mr M had told AWP that the trip had been partly for business purposes, it 
concluded that his claim wasnt covered.
Mr M was unhappy with AWPs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He told 
us that the primary purpose of the trip was to visit family and friends. He said that a family 
member, who is also part of his business, lives in the city he visited. He said that he and the 
family member are always talking about the business and that was why he had referred to a 
business element to his trip. But the only discernible business element to the trip was to 
discuss how to prevent his business from going into liquidation.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She didnt think AWP had 
provided enough evidence to show that Mr Ms trip had been for business purposes and she 
accepted that the trip had primarily been undertaken for leisure reasons. So she 
recommended that AWP should accept and settle Mr Ms claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2023, which explained the reasons why I thought it 
had been fair for AWP to turn down Mr Ms claim. I said:
The relevant rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And that they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms 
of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether AWP treated him 
fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the group 
contract between Mr Ms bank and AWP. The policy does provide cover if a policy 
beneficiarys baggage is lost or stolen during a trip. AWP has defined what it means by a 
trip and so Ive set out the relevant part of the definition below:
Your travel originally scheduled to begin from your primary residence on your departure 
date and end on your return date to, within and/or from a location:
 at least 100 kilometres away from your primary residence; or
 abroad; or
 outside your city/town of residence, provided that your travel includes an overnight stay.
The benefits are provided during leisure trips only and are not valid during business 
trips. Business trips are any travel or stay undertaken for business/work purposes, including 
but not limited to, training, meetings, internships or voluntary work. (My emphasis added.)
AWP states that Mr Ms trip isnt covered because it was partly for business purposes. So 
Ive considered whether I think this was a fair conclusion for AWP to reach.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on an insurance policy. That means its Mr Ms responsibility to show that he was on a trip, 
as defined by the contract terms. Its unfortunate that in this case, I havent been provided 
with a copy of Mr Ms claim form, despite a request to AWP, which shows exactly what Mr M 
told AWP about the trip when he made the claim.
However, I do have a copy of the original complaint that Mr M made to AWP when it decided 
to turn down his claim. This includes the following:
I made a claim on my policy due to a theft which occurred whilst I was on a mixed purpose 
trip
I made it clear at the very start of the claims process that the purpose of my trip was for 
both pleasure and business. (My emphasis added).
It seems to me then that the information Mr M appears to have given AWP about the reason 
for his trip indicated that this was a dual-purpose trip and wasnt a trip for leisure purposes 
only. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for AWP to rely on the information Mr M 
appears to have given it at the outset to conclude that his claim was at least partly for 
business reasons.
Ive carefully considered what Mr M has since told us about the primary purpose of his trip 
being for leisure reasons and that he had no formal itinerary, or planned client meetings. But 
it isnt clear to me that AWP has had an opportunity to consider any new comments or 
evidence from Mr M on these points. Its therefore open to Mr M to send any new evidence 
or comments he wishes to make to AWP for its further consideration.
Based on what Ive seen so far, whilst I sympathise with Mr Ms position, as I appreciate he 
has been the victim of a theft, I dont think AWP has reached an unreasonable conclusion. I 
think it was reasonably entitled to rely on the evidence it had available when it assessed the 
claim to decide that Mr Ms trip was in part for business purposes and therefore, wasnt for 
leisure purposes only. On that basis, I dont currently think I could reasonably find that AWP 
has treated Mr M unfairly. And it follows that I dont intend to direct AWP to settle Mr Ms 
claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider. 
Mr M didnt accept my provisional findings and Ive summarised his response. He reiterated 
that at the time of the theft, hed been out for personal and social reasons. He questioned 
why hed have rented a vehicle to travel if the trip had been for business purposes. He said 
he hadnt claimed the cost back as a business expense. Although hed stated that the trip 
had been for mixed-purposes, he had travelled for social reasons. He stated that he didnt 
understand why the claim was being turned down, despite all of the evidence he had provided. He said he felt my provisional decision was difficult to reconcile with the situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I still think it was fair for AWP to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the policy terms clearly set out that travel 
insurance cover is provided for leisure trips only. Travel for business purposes isnt 
something AWP has chosen to insure under the terms of this particular contract.
Whilst I appreciate Mr M has provided us with further information about the nature and 
purpose of his trip, its still the case that he told AWP at the outset that his trip had been for 
both business and leisure purposes. And so I think it was reasonable for AWP to rely on that 
information to conclude that Mr M had travelled for at least partly business reasons. As such, 
I dont think it was unfair for AWP to decide that Mr Ms claim wasnt covered, based on the 
information it had available at the time it assessed the claim.
As I set out in my provisional findings, it isnt clear to me that AWP has had a chance to 
consider Mr Ms further comments about the purpose of his trip, or what happened at the 
time of the claim. It remains open to Mr M to send any additional evidence or comments to 
AWP for its consideration should he wish to do so.
Overall though, whilst I sympathise with Mr Ms position, I still dont think AWP treated him 
unfairly when it assessed his claim, based on the evidence available to it at that time. 
Accordingly, Im not directing AWP to settle Mr Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman