DRN-2935608
The complaint
Miss O complains about delays by Hoist Finance UK Limited after she asked it to amend an 
incorrect default date on her credit file. 
  
What happened
In November 2014 the original lender (B) closed and defaults an account in Miss Os name. 
Hoist later acquired the debt from B. 
In November 2020 Miss O contacted Hoist and explained the default date it was reporting 
was wrong because it said July 2017 instead of November 2014. As a result, the default 
would remain on Miss Os credit file. Miss O was referred back to B to obtain confirm the 
default date was wrong. 
At the beginning of December 2020 Miss O called Hoist back and advised B agreed the 
default date being reported was wrong. Miss O was referred back to B. In January 2020 Miss 
O complained to Hoist as it was still reporting the wrong default date. 
Hoist responded in March 2021 and said it was reporting the default date it had been given 
by B. At the end of April 2021 B responded to a complaint from Miss O and sent her its final 
response. The final response confirmed the default date shouldve been November 2014, 
not July 2017. Hoist received a copy of the letter on 30 April 2021. 
On 26 May 2021 Hoist issued its final response and said it would amend Miss Os credit file 
to reflect the correct default date within five working days. 
An investigator at this service upheld Miss Os complaint and asked Hoist to pay her £150 
for delays in resolving the situation. Hoist didnt accept, so Miss Os complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O first raised the default date error with Hoist in November 2020 and was referred back 
to B. But the investigator has pointed out that Hoist couldve taken the step of contacting B to 
check the information it was reporting after Miss O got in touch. I think thats a reasonable 
point. Ultimately, it was B that needed to confirm the default date so Hoist couldve stepped 
in to assist Miss O. 
Miss O contacted Hoist again in December 2020 and confirmed B had told her the default 
date being reported was wrong. Miss O complained to Hoist that it was taking too long to 
amend her credit file in January 2021. Again, Miss O was referred back to B but given the 
issues raised, I agree with the investigator that Hoist couldve taken that step on her behalf. 
Hoists response to Miss Os complaint in March 2021 again referred her back to B for 
evidence. Given the length of time the situation had been ongoing for at this stage, I think 
Hoist couldve stepped in to assist Miss O and contacted B on her behalf. 
Bs letter confirming the default date was wrong was received by Hoist on 30 April 2021. 
Theres no evidence Hoist took action to resolve the issues raised or amend Miss Os credit 
file until it responded to her complaint on 26 May 2021, nearly a month later. Given how long 
Miss O had been asking for help with hr credit file, I think she could reasonably have 
expected Hoist to respond as a priority. I dont think it was reasonable to delay the matter 
until Hoist issued its final response on 26 May 2021. 
I agree with the investigator that Hoist shouldve stepped in to assist Miss O at an earlier 
point. Im satisfied Miss O has suffered unnecessary trouble and upset a a result. So Im 
going to tell Hoist to pay her £150 to reflect the impact of the issues raised on her. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Hoist Finance UK Limited to pay     
Miss O £150.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman