DRN-4250670
The complaint
Mr C complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plcs (RBS) administration of the loan 
he held jointly with his wife. Hes unhappy that the bank stopped collecting payments and 
recorded adverse information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a joint RBS loan, which they took out in 2017. The loan account ran 
broadly in line with the credit agreement between the parties until August 2021, with 
repayments made by direct debit.
However, in September 2021 RBS stopped collecting payments. This led to arrears 
developing on the loan and Mr C being issued with a termination notice. Mr C complained to 
RBS, pointing out that the account was up to date until the bank stopped taking payments. 
However, since then he had missed payment markers on his credit file and the bank had 
recorded a default.
RBS says it cancelled the direct debit because at that point it became aware that in February 
2020 Mrs C had entered a trust deed, an insolvency process that triggers termination of the 
credit agreement. The bank acknowledged that the account should have been passed to its 
Recoveries department. It said it would do this, refund interest since August 2021 and 
backdate the default to that point. It also paid Mr C £100 in light of service shortcomings it 
set out in its letter of 22 February 2022.
However, Mr Cs problems with RBS continued, as the bank returned payments he 
attempted to make through March and April 2022. RBS paid Mr C a further £50 in 
compensation, and credited the loan with £75.
Our investigator didnt think RBS had dealt fairly with Mr C. She found that Mr C had made 
reasonable attempts to maintain payments towards the debt when he found the direct debits 
had stopped, and that the bank hadnt done enough to assist with that. The investigator 
considered this was the root cause of the arrears that developed, and the adverse 
information recorded on Mr Cs credit file.
She further noted guidance on arrears and credit records issued by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO guidance said that where only one party to a joint 
debt is the subject of an insolvency order, the account shouldnt automatically be marked in 
default if it is being maintained by the other party. The investigator recommended that RBS 
remove the default and adverse payment information from Mr Cs credit file, enable him to 
repay the balance and pay £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
RBS didnt accept our investigators recommendation. It said the default hadnt been 
automatically recorded and it had informed Mr C when it issued the termination notice. This 
was a process giving him a period of time to repay the balance it demanded, for example by 
arranging to borrow the money elsewhere.
The bank felt the investigator hadnt correctly understood the ICO guidance, and said it 
couldnt legally amend the credit file entry unless it had made an error. It further expressed 
the view that the payments Mr C had made since the direct debit was stopped were much 
lower than the contractual payment, suggesting the possibility he couldnt afford them.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded by the banks response to reach a different conclusion 
and as matters remain unresolved, the complaint has been passed to me for review and 
determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C held their loan jointly. Under General Condition 8(iii) of their loan agreement, 
subject to proper notice RBS was entitled to terminate the loan and demand immediate 
payment due to Mrs Cs insolvency.
The agreement is silent on what constitutes proper notice. Section 76 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) requires at least seven days notice before an agreement term can 
be enforced involving termination of the borrowers rights under the agreement, or early 
repayment demanded. Section 98 of the CCA makes the same provision of seven days for 
notice of termination in respect of non-default cases.
RBS sent Mr C a letter on 9 February 2022, enclosing a termination notice that appears 
compliant with the CCA provisions. The notice says the loan agreement will be terminated 
on 2 March 2022 due to the insolvency, and gives notice of the banks intention to demand 
immediate and full repayment of the loan balance. While the covering letter to Mr C notes an 
arrears sum on the account, the only reference to default is in relation to the action that will 
be taken following that formal demand.
RBS issued a further letter and termination notice to Mr C on 10 March. The correspondence 
was along the same lines as the 2 March letter, save that the arrears balance was slightly 
higher and the termination date was changed to 23 March. On 31 March RBS wrote to Mr C 
to say it had terminated the loan and demanded full repayment of the loan balance by 10 
April. The banks letter said that it would record a default on Mr Cs credit file if payment 
wasnt made by this date.
Although a partys insolvency can be detailed as a default event in a credit agreement, 
RBSs agreement with Mr and Mrs C didnt include this. Given the correspondence above I 
find that at this point, RBS was not treating the account as being in default despite the 
insolvency, the account arrears and missed payments.
Mr C didnt pay the full balance by 10 April and the bank recorded a default on 30 April. I 
think its reasonable to infer from all of this that the default RBS recorded on Mr Cs credit file 
relates to him not meeting the obligation to repay the full balance when required following 
the termination of the loan.
I can understand why from a contractual perspective RBS considers that it did nothing wrong 
in taking the action it did. However, the bank will also be aware that this isnt the only factor 
that speaks to whether it has treated its customer fairly. The banks entitlement to terminate 
the loan and issue a demand for full payment doesnt mean it was obliged to report Mr C as 
being in default as a result. It stands to reason that many people would be unable to repay 
such borrowing in full in similar circumstances.With this in mind, I would expect the bank to have explored with Mr C whether there was a 
reasonable prospect of him being able to repay the balance or, if not, a regular amount he 
could pay that might avoid the need to default. Although RBSs letters gave Mr C a contact 
number to call if he has any questions, the only way they state for him to avoid the default is 
by settling in full. 
I can see why our investigator considered that the banks approach might conflict with the 
ICOs guidance. RBSs process for dealing with Mrs Cs insolvency is what triggered the 
termination, and the termination led directly to the payment demand and default. At no point 
does RBS appear to have proposed that if Mr C maintain the payments it wouldnt record the 
default.
The mere fact that the bank issued correspondence to comply with its regulatory obligations 
to give notice of its actions doesnt strike me as evidence that it complied with the wording  
nor indeed the spirit  of the ICO guidance. And while Mr C didnt maintain payments after 
August 2021, Im satisfied he made reasonable efforts to do so. The bank acknowledged it 
cancelled his direct debit, that it didnt set up the alternative payment facility he needed, and 
returned those payments he did make.
Im conscious RBS has suggested in its response to our investigator the possibility that Mr C 
would have been unable to afford to maintain the loan. Whether or not thats correct, the 
bank hasnt submitted persuasive evidence of this to me, and I cant fairly conclude that this 
would have been the position. Mrs Cs insolvency started in February 2021, but Mr C was 
continuing to make the contractual payments some six months later.
Putting things right
Having considered matters overall, I find that RBS didnt treat Mr C fairly when it recorded 
the default on his credit file. I therefore direct the bank to remove this information from his 
credit file, along with any missed payment information it recorded in respect of payments due 
from September 2021 to June 2022, when he referred his complaint to us.
If it hasnt already done so, RBS should instigate discussion with Mr C with a view to 
reaching a realistic and mutually agreeable repayment arrangement for the remaining debt. 
Provided that Mr C keeps to any such arrangement, RBS should ensure it doesnt record a 
default or any other adverse information on Mr Cs credit file in respect of the debt.
The banks actions have undoubtedly caused avoidable distress and inconvenience to Mr C. 
It has already acknowledged some of its service shortcomings and paid him compensation 
for these. I consider it appropriate to award Mr C £500 in addition to those previous 
payments, to fairly reflect the distress and difficulty hes had arising from the banks handling 
of the matters Ive dealt with here. For the avoidance of doubt, that payment should be made 
directly to Mr C rather than applied as a credit against the debt, unless Mr C asks for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
should, within 28 days of receiving Mr Cs acceptance of my decision, take the steps Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Niall TaylorOmbudsman