DRN-4497853
The complaint
Mrs B complains that TransUnion International UK Limited (TransUnion) merged her credit 
file with her twin sisters file and failed to resolve this when informed of the error.  
What happened
Mrs B contacted TransUnion in March 2021 about a mortgage that she didnt have showing 
on her credit file. In April 2023, she contacted TransUnion again to say that her file had been 
merged with her sisters. 
 
As no action was taken, Mrs B contacted TransUnion again in July 2023, to complain about 
the merging of the two credit files and its failure to rectify the error.
In its final response, TransUnion apologised for the error and confirmed its database was in 
the process of being corrected. 
Unhappy with TransUnions response, Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. She said:
Her personal, private and confidential details were visible on her sisters credit report, 
which is a breach of GDPR and a violation of her Human Rights and the Fair Credit 
Reporting Act (FCRA). This also caused an unnecessary rift between her and her 
sister.
She was unable to consolidate finances or apply for a new mortgage, which 
significantly impacted her ability to manage cost of living increases. 
This issue has had a huge impact on her mental health. 
Following referral to this service, TransUnion offered to pay Mrs B £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator reviewed matters and concluded that TransUnion was at fault for the 
merging of the two credit files, and it should increase its compensation offer to £300, to more 
fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B. 
TransUnion accepted our investigators recommendation. Mrs B disagreed and said £300 
wasnt enough to reflect the long-term negative impact on her life and mental health. She 
said shes always been financially independent, but TransUnions error meant she had to 
rely on her husband to obtain credit she was being declined for, which was traumatic for her 
and caused her embarrassment. Based on what shed seen online, she thought she should 
be awarded a compensation figure in the region of £2,000. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account the relevant industry rules 
and guidance, and what would be considered as good industry practice.
Its unclear from the evidence available what happened to cause the merging of the two 
credit files. But Im satisfied an error of some kind occurred and that TransUnion have taken 
responsibility for the error, so I dont need to decide that aspect  I just need to consider 
what TransUnion should do to put things right for Mrs B. 
As this service is not the regulator, I cannot fine or punish TransUnion for the mistake it 
made. But I can consider the impact the error caused Mrs B and this is what Ive thought 
about.
The files were separated in August 2023, which I believe to be within a reasonable 
timeframe from when Mrs B contacted TransUnion about the merge in July 2023. However, 
TransUnion was notified of a mortgage not held by Mrs B showing on her credit file back in 
March 2021, and the merging of the two files in April 2023. 
I agree that TransUnion shouldve looked into the issue back in 2021, when first notified. And 
by not doing so, the matter was left unresolved for over two years. However, I also need to 
consider that Mrs B didnt follow this up until April 2023, over two years later. 
Mrs B has described significant impact to her mental health, financial standing and 
relationships since 2021, which she considers to be a direct result of this issue. In such 
circumstances, I wouldve expected to see Mrs B make reasonable attempt to mitigate 
ongoing impact by following this up with TransUnion. 
When asked why she hadnt followed this up sooner, Mrs B explained she had assumed the 
matter had been resolved after contacting TransUnion in 2021. And it was only after being 
refused for credit that she realised this wasnt the case. It was at this point that she obtained 
her credit file and became aware of it being merged with her sisters file. 
This suggests that Mrs B only became aware of any potential impact caused by the error at 
a later date. On the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not this wouldve 
been around April 2023, when she contacted TransUnion specifically about the merging of 
the two files and raised a dispute. And if it was earlier than this, I think its reasonable to 
have expected Mrs B to raise this with TransUnion at the time.
For this reason, in addition to lack of supporting evidence, Im not persuaded that the 
merging of the credit files was the sole and direct cause of Mrs Bs mental health concerns 
and inability to obtain credit to consolidate finances over a two-year period. 
I havent seen any evidence to support the error has resulted in financial loss. Multiple 
considerations are made by lenders following an application for credit, and there couldve 
been other reasons for credit applications being declined. So, for me to be able to conclude 
that TransUnion were responsible for Mrs Bs inability to obtain credit, Id need to see 
confirmation that the lending decisions made were solely based on the incorrect information 
showing on her credit file, and lending wouldve been agreed had that incorrect information 
not been there. I dont have this evidence here, so there is no guarantee that different 
lending decisions wouldve been made had the error not happened.
However, I do accept that Mrs Bs credit file being shared wouldve caused her distress and 
concern about the safety of her personal data. And I dont doubt the concern she reported 
feeling when she found out her sister had sight of her borrowing and financial standing, or 
the impact this had on their relationship. In addition, I think Mrs B was caused avoidable 
frustration by having to chase TransUnion on more than one occasion to resolve the matter.So, I do agree a compensation award should be paid to Mrs B in recognition of this. And 
having considered the impact caused solely by the error TransUnion made, Im satisfied that 
£300 is in line with the level of distress Mrs B has suffered and within our award ranges for 
situations such as this. 
In the absence of any evidence to support financial loss or detriment, I cant agree that 
TransUnion should increase the compensation from £300 to a higher amount.
Putting things right
TransUnion should now pay Mrs B £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint about 
TransUnion International UK Limited. I now require it to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bastin
Ombudsman