DRN-3235417
The complaint
Mr K complains Shawbrook Bank Limited has charged him interest it shouldnt have.
What happened
In 2019 Mr K bought some items using a loan with a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) option 
provided by Shawbrook. In brief, he needed to repay the amount borrowed (£5,265) plus 
interest (at 19.9% APR) over a 120-month term. But Mr K didnt need to pay anything for the 
first 12 months and if he repaid what he owed in full by the end of this period, 18 April 2020, 
no interest would be payable  this is the BNPL option. This was explained in the credit 
agreement and Shawbrooks letter of 8 March 2020, which explained the BNPL period was 
coming to an end and what Mr Ks options were.
 
Mr K called Shawbrook in March 2020. I have listened to the call. In brief, Mr K explained his 
household income had been impacted by the Covid pandemic and for some leeway in 
uncertain times, would like to repay the loan in full over the following few months rather than 
in one lump sum. Shawbrook explained it couldnt offer a payment holiday. Mr K suggested 
he pay four instalments of about £1,315 by direct debit. Shawbrook set up the direct debit. 
There was no mention that this would mean the BNPL period wouldnt be satisfied and that 
deferred interest would therefore be payable.
 
Mr K made four payments, totally £5,265, over the following four months as he said he 
would. But then later found a further direct debit for £113.25 had been taken, about £1,000 
of deferred interest had been applied, interest was continuing to accrue, and he was 
expected to make direct debit payments of about £113.25 a month going forward. Mr K 
complained. He was under the impression hed repaid the loan in full and said if hed known 
this would happen, he would have repaid the loan in full by 18 April 2020 to avoid the 
interest.
 
Shawbrook accepted it didnt advise Mr K interest would be payable if he didnt repay the 
loan in full by the end of the BNPL period. It paid him £75 compensation by way of apology. 
Mr K didnt think this was a fair outcome as he remained of the view he would have repaid 
the loan in full by the end of the BNPL period if hed been correctly advised. He asked our 
service for an independent review and provided a bank statement to show he had the money 
available to repay the loan in full in March 2020. 
Our investigator concluded, in summary, that she was persuaded Mr K would have repaid 
the loan in full by the end of the BNPL period if hed been told paying in four instalments 
would result in him paying such a large amount of interest. She recommended Shawbrook:
- Refund Mr K the £113.25 taken by direct debit, plus simple interest at 8% a year from 
the date it was taken (18 August 2020) to the date of settlement;
- Rework the loan to show it was paid off at the end of the BNPL period (18 April 
2020);
- Remove any adverse information regarding this loan from Mr Ks credit file;
- Not pay Mr K any further compensation as she considered the £75 already paid to 
him to be a fair and reasonable amount to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
he was caused.
Mr K accepted the investigators recommendation. Shawbrook didnt accept it. It said, in 
summary, that:
- Mr K didnt repay the loan in full by the end of the BNPL period, so interest was 
payable;
- It didnt agree to extend the BNPL period; and
- If Mr K had the money available to repay the loan in full by the end of the BNPL 
period, why did he ask for an extension?
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr K should have been told in the March 2020 call that paying in four 
instalments instead of one lump sum would cost him over £1,000 in interest. For 
completeness, I agree he should have been. 
The question now is, on the balance of probabilities, would Mr K have repaid the loan in full 
by the end of the BNPL period if hed been correctly advised? Im persuaded he would have. 
I say this because Mr K:
- says he would have, and I find his testimony consistent, plausible and credible;
- explained in the call he would repay the loan, but given uncertainty brought about by 
the pandemic would prefer not to do so straight away  in other words, he didnt say 
he wouldnt/couldnt repay the loan in full by the end of BNPL period;
- had the money available to repay it, and then went on to make the four agreed 
installments; and
- is unlikely to have chosen to pay over £1,000 in interest when he could have avoid 
doing so. 
It follows that Im satisfied Shawbrook has made a mistake which has caused detriment to 
Mr K.   
Putting things right
Shawbrook should:
- Refund Mr K the £113.25 taken by direct debit, plus simple interest at 8% a year from 
the date it was taken (18 August 2020) to the date of settlement;
- Rework the loan to show it was paid off at the end of the BNPL period (18 April 
2020); and
- Remove any adverse information regarding this loan from Mr Ks credit file.
I make no additional award for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused Mr K 
as I consider the £75 compensation already paid to him to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
 
My final decision
Shawbrook Bank Limited should put things right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman