DRN-4338811
The complaint
Mr W complains about Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank.
He is not satisfied with the way it has dealt with his complaint regarding an Automated 
Deposit Machine (ADM). 
What happened
Mr W visited a branch and utilised the ADM to deposit two cheques, and some small 
change.
On looking at his receipt, Mr W realised that he had been credited for £12.56  which 
seemed high. He then realised that he had been credited for five £2 coins which he knew he 
hadnt put into the machine as his small change was made up of coppers. 
Mr W alerted the branch staff to this and was told that it would be coins left over from a 
previous customer.
Mr W was concerned about this  as other customers may not be as honest as him and may 
be able to benefit from a similar error in the future and he wasnt satisfied that this would be 
an isolated incident. 
While Mr Ws deposit was corrected immediately, Mr W felt that his complaint was not taken 
seriously, and he had to write multiple times before he got an acknowledgement. He was 
also not satisfied with the response he got to his complaint. 
Mr W would like the individual who responded to his complaint to have taken immediate 
action and decommissioned all ADM machines. He would also like the ombudsman service 
to call for the resignation of this individual.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. They 
explained that this Service was only able to consider Mr Ws complaint about a financial loss, 
distress or inconvenience that Mr W himself had suffered  not for other customers.
They also explained that this Service has no authority to recommend that someone at a 
Bank should resign.
Mr W remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
Investigator. Ill explain why. 
I know that Mr W is frustrated with his experience using the ADM  however this was 
resolved the same day and he was debited the £10 he had mistakenly been credited  so 
Im unable to say that there has been any personal financial loss, distress or inconvenience 
to him. 
While I know that Mr W says that he has been inconvenienced as he no longer trusts the 
ADM, Mr W does not have to use this if he doesnt want to. Dankse Bank has already 
explained that it is committed to making sure that its ADM machines run free of errors, and 
to resolve those that do occur.  
As our Investigator explained, while it is commendable for Mr W to be concerned about other 
consumers, Im not able to consider this as part of his complaint. It would be up to other 
consumers to make their own complaints if they felt that the ADM had not calculated their 
deposit correctly. And while there may be customers not as honest as Mr W who may benefit 
from any errors, again this is not something I can consider here.
It would also no be the place of this Service to suggest that a bank decommission all ADMs 
 or to ask for the resignation of any staff member. Mr W may misunderstand the role of this 
service  it is not to police or review how a business undertakes everyday activities or 
conduct investigations into individual members of staff. The role of this service is to look into 
individual complaints and provide an impartial opinion on whether anything has gone wrong, 
and if it did, what the business did, or should do, to put things right. 
I do know that Mr W is also upset that his complaint was not acknowledged by the branch 
and that it took several attempts to make his complaint, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that his complaint wasnt taken seriously or not acted on appropriately. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman