DRN-2597602
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) relates to the rate of interest on a loan 
he obtained, on line, with BOI. He feels the rate initially quoted was much lower than the 
actual rate he was ultimately given, which he says is unfair.
What happened
Mr C went on the Post Offices (BOI) website to look into taking out a loan. Having entered 
some details he said he was given an indicative rate of interest of 3.5% and told that he was 
very likely to be approved for a loan. Emails received subsequently he said referred to the 
3.5% interest rate.
On 17 July 2020 Mr C completed an online application but then received an offer of loan at a 
rate of 14.9% not the lower rate he was quoted. He decided to accept the loan. Mr C said he 
was aware of and was given notice of his right to cancel the loan within 14 days, which he 
tried to do. He encountered some difficulty in getting through to BOI on the phone because 
he said the waiting times were long when he called. So, he tried to complete an online 
complaint form but had difficulty with that as he said there were validation errors.
BOI have not upheld Mr Cs complaint. It said that the terms of the loan were clear on the 
face of the agreement which Mr C was aware of when he accepted it. Further, that its 
website made clear that the rate of 3.3%, not 3.5% as Mr C thought, was a representative 
rate only and that it was clear that the actual rate offered could be different after a full loan 
application had been made and processed. 
BOI also did not accept that there was a fault with their validation system and has said it had 
no reported errors in July, August or September 2020. It also confirmed that its call centres 
were open 11 hours each weekday and 6 hours on a Saturday to deal with customers 
enquiries.
Mr C was unhappy with BOIs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that BOI hadnt acted unfairly 
and hadnt done anything wrong and so did not recommend BOI should do anything further.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
The starting point to this complaint has to be the initial enquiry Mr C made when he used 
BOIs Fast Checker Tool and saw the rate of interest indicated at 3.3%. BOI dont dispute 
that but do point to the fact that it also explained at that time that the rate was subject to 
change. Emails Ive seen from BOI to Mr C do confirm that. So, I think its clear that at that 
point in time the rate of 3.3% was not the rate being offered to Mr C, it was just an indication. 
Mr C then made his application and received an offer of loan quoting an interest rate of 
14.9%. He saw that rate and understood it but decided to accept the loan because he knew 
he could cancel in 14 days. I think this shows that Mr C knew precisely what the rate of 
interest was and entered into the loan agreement in the full knowledge that he would be 
charged 14.9% APR. 
It is accepted by Mr C that the loan funds were released to him in full. The loan agreement 
he signed provided the methods for cancellation as being either by post or telephone. I 
accept that Mr C was unhappy with the wait times when he rang BOI and chose not to wait. 
However, Mr C could have sent a written notice of cancellation to BOI within the 14 days but 
did not. I think the requirement to send such a written notice is reasonable. The effect of all 
of this was to leave Mr C in the position that he had not actually cancelled his loan, even 
though that was his intention. 
Ultimately Mr C made payments to settle the loan. He first obtained a quotation for early 
settlement on 9 October and then made a payment for what he thought was the sum 
outstanding by taking from the initial loan sum the payments he had made by way of 
repayment. Such a method of calculating what was due at the date of actual repayment is 
incorrect and did not equate to the settlement figure Mr C was given. As a consequence, he 
underpaid, and a balance remained due. It follows that BOI were entitled to continue to 
collect the loan payments by direct debit as the loan remained in operation. 
Mr C says he tried to make a complaint though BOIs web site but was unable to because he 
received validation errors. BOI have said they have no record of any errors at the relevant 
time, but Mr C has produced a video of what appears to be of him attempting to complete 
the online form and running into difficulty. I have looked at that video and although it is not 
very clear I can see that there appears to be an area highlighted in red, presumably to 
indicate that was where the error was. It is impossible for me to say why this occurred 
although I did see that Mr C had not completed every field. That aside, whether the website 
worked or not does not affect the requirement to cancel the loan either by telephone or post, 
as set out in the terms and conditions.   
So, in conclusion, the APR on the loan was clearly spelled out and Mr C accepted it. He then 
did not cancel the loan in accordance with the terms and conditions and so it continued in 
operation. When he tried to settle the loan, he has miscalculated the amount due and not 
paid the actual settlement figure he was given, thus meaning the loan continued and entitling 
BOI to take the loan repayments. 
Whilst Mr C has shown what appears to be difficulty in submitting a complaint, I must 
balance that against the fact that BOI have no reported errors or reports of difficulties using 
their website at the relevant time. As such on balance I think the difficulties Mr C faced were 
probably due to human error rather than any problem with BOIs system.
So, although Mr C will probably be disappointed with my decision I cant say BOI has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman