DRN-1928810
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has unfairly recorded a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr K opened an account with NatWest in August 2018. NatWest told Mr K it would be 
closing the account in September 2018. He later found that it had recorded the marker and 
complained.
NatWest said in its final response that fraudulently obtained funds had been paid into the 
account. It said it had placed a stop on the account to encourage Mr K to contact it when he 
couldnt access his money. He didnt do so at the time. Mr K had later told it he allowed 
someone else to use his account, but NatWest said this wouldnt be a reason to remove the 
marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He considered information 
Mr K had provided about a friend encouraging him to open the account for foreign exchange 
trading. And that Mr K claimed that this friend acted fraudulently not him. But our investigator 
didnt conclude that it was most likely that Mr K had no awareness of how his account was 
being used. He said that he thought NatWest had acted fairly.
Mr K didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He thought that some of the 
information he provided that had to be translated may not have been seen. He had no links 
with people who carried out frauds and had opened this account only for foreign exchange 
transactions. He trusted his friend and didnt know what hed done. Mr K said he thought that 
the video clips hed obtained recently and the chats with this person at around the time the 
account was opened showed that he was taken in. The marker is having a significant affect 
on him as he said his other bank account was closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NatWest 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Ive looked closely at Mr Ks complaint letter to NatWest. He said that he trusted this friend 
and that he had helped him when he first came to this country. And that he sat with him 
while Mr K opened the account. Mr K stated that he didnt put any money in as it was 
supposed to be a secondary account for foreign exchange trading. His friend would do the 
first couple of trades and he allowed his friend to use his card. Mr K said he questioned him 
about some unknown transactions, but he believed these were related to currency trades. 
And he said he didnt really understand it and didnt question it when the account was 
closed, and he opened another bank account. He said that his lack of understanding of the 
financial systems and his language barrier meant he was taken advantage of.
Mr K has explained to our investigator that he already had an account with another financial 
business. He said his friend wanted to pay in money to the new account and that it was used 
for two weeks for normal spend including at restaurants which he said was to activate his 
card.
I appreciate that Mr K responded to our investigators request for any information to back up 
what he said. Ive looked at the translation of all the exchange of messages Mr K says was 
with the friend involved at the time. And at what he says was recent contact with him by 
video on social media as well as with a mutual friend. His aim was to show that his friend 
was dishonest and routinely carried out fraud. 
This information is difficult both to verify and weigh up and I also cant know if this is all of the 
exchanges with the person involved. Mr K hasnt reported this person to the authorities and 
also relies on a third party setting out what type of fraudulent activity this person in involved 
in. Even if I was to accept that there was a third party using his account and he acted 
fraudulently there is nothing on the information provided by Mr K taken at its highest in my 
view that shows Mr K didnt know about this at the time.
What I can infer is that Mr K was interested in making money from trading foreign exchange. 
His complaint letter to NatWest shows that he didnt ask too many questions about what was 
happening to an account in his name that he was responsible for. His explanation that this 
account was only for foreign exchange is at odds with how it was used for a couple of 
weeks. And he didnt do much to question where what he accepts was unusual money that 
came into his account had gone  when his statement shows it was all quickly withdrawn 
using his card and PIN. I dont find it credible he reasonably thought this was all related to 
foreign exchange trading. He didnt ask NatWest why his account had been blocked and 
closed at the time - something which ought to have raised some concerns in my view 
especially as he says his friend wasnt then in as much contact with him. 
Im afraid Im not persuaded its most likely Mr K was an unwitting participant here. I accept 
he didnt know about the CIFAS marker added then. But I think it most likely that he realised 
that because of the type of activity on the account it had been closed. I appreciate its difficult 
for him to show he wasnt involved. But he allowed his account to be freely used and 
fraudulent funds were deposited and then taken out of his account. I cant know who did that 
and it is only Mr K that clearly says it wasnt him. Even if it was this other person Im satisfied 
on balance Mr K had knowledge that his account wasnt being used legitimately and that he 
allowed this to happen and did nothing about it.
NatWest says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr K received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that NatWest needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ks account of events and the evidence NatWest has provided, Im 
satisfied that NatWest had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr K received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to NatWest at 
the time.- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds, even if by a third party and so was in 
effective control of who had the benefit of this money.
- NatWest had grounds to believe that Mr K had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I appreciate what Mr K says about the impact the marker is having on his ability to access 
financial services but Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require NatWest to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman