DRN-1146780
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society gave him misleading information before he 
agreed to enter a payment arrangement. 
What happened
In May 2016 Nationwide contacted Mr B to say it had completed a review of his account and 
taken the decision to reduce his overdraft limit from £3,500 to £1,800 on 22 June 2016. On 
20 May 2016 Mr B discussed his account with Nationwide and agreed to enter a payment 
arrangement that meant his overdraft limit would reduce by £150 a month. 
Last year Mr B complained to Nationwide and said the impact of the payment arrangement 
on his credit file hadn't been clearly explained. Mr B has told us he's been unable to 
remortgage at a better rate and doesn't qualify for other credit as a result of the payment 
arrangement. Nationwide responded on 22 August 2019 but didn't agree it had made a 
mistake. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Nationwide had told Mr B about how the payment arrangement would 
affect his credit file and didn't uphold his complaint. Mr B asked to appeal so his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B called Nationwide on 20 May 2016 to talk about his account after it decided to review 
and reduce the overdraft limit. I know Mr B's overdraft of £3,500 had been in place for 
several years. But Nationwide's terms allow it to review accounts and request repayment of 
an overdraft at any time. So whilst Mr B's overdraft was in place for several years, 
Nationwide was free to reduce it after completing a review and giving notice. 
That meant Mr B's options were limited when he called on 20 May 2016. The call handler 
explained Mr B could either bring the overdraft balance under £1,800 before the limit 
reduced or agree a repayment plan. Nationwide's call handler confirmed that there was no 
option to leave the existing overdraft limit in place. 
In his complaint submission Mr B said that if Nationwide had been honest about the impact 
of the payment arrangement on his credit file he would have borrowed the money elsewhere. 
But that's not what he said during the call to Nationwide. Mr B said he had a choice and 
could only reduce his overdraft to under £1,800 if he didn't pay his mortgage which would 
lead to adverse credit. Mr B said he was caught in a vicious circle but decided to proceed 
with the payment arrangement. 
I understand Mr B didn't want any adverse credit registered against him. And I don't doubt 
that it has impacted his ability to secure new credit. But, as I've said above, Mr B's options were limited when he spoke with Nationwide and he didn't mention a possibility of borrowing 
the money elsewhere. Mr B told Nationwide he would prefer to enter a payment arrangement 
rather than miss his mortgage payment. Nationwide proceeded on that basis. 
I thought the call handler tried to explain that a payment arrangement would affect his credit 
file but that other types of adverse credit had a greater impact. I note that the call handler 
told Mr B that he couldn't say how other businesses would consider a payment arrangement. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr B but I haven't found that the nature and impact of the payment 
arrangement was misrepresented when he discussed it with Nationwide. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr B but as I'm satisfied Nationwide has dealt with his complaint fairly 
I'm not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman