DRN-4287616
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired with credit from Startline Motor Finance Limited
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S entered into a credit agreement with Startline on 3 March 2022 to acquire a used car.
The credit was granted under a hire purchase agreement. This meant Startline was the
owner of the car and Mr S was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As owner, Startline was
responsible for the quality of the car.
The cash price of the car was £8,395 and the total amount owed under the agreement
including interest came to £10,437.56. Mr S paid a deposit of £1,537. The remainder was to
be repaid in 35 monthly instalments of £246.96 with a final payment of £256.96. The vehicle
was nine years old when it was supplied to Mr S and had covered 88,491 miles.
Delivery of the car to Mr S was delayed until on or after the 11 March. The dealer said that
the car needed a replacement oil sensor. On 3 September a full service was carried out on
the car, which had a tyre replaced. The mileage on the service report was 90,966. Mr S said
the car broke down shortly after this and was recovered. The recovery service report
recorded the mileage as 91,077 and listed faults relating to the camshaft timing and the
coolant temperature sensor. The service advised Mr S to take the car to a garage as it had a
rattle from the timing chain area.
Mr S contacted Startline on 6 September. He said the engine management light and the
drivetrain message were illuminated and the car had issues relating to the camshafts, the
right axle, the timing belt, coolant temperature sensor, water bottle and air conditioning. I
understand the car was returned to the dealer on 7 September. Mr S said the dealer had
attempted to return the car to him in late September but without letting him know what work it
had carried out. Mr S wanted to reject the car at that point but accepted the return of the car
in late December.
Startline accepted that there had been faults with the car which appeared within six months
of it being supplied to Mr S. It said that the dealer had repaired these faults and so Mr S
wasnt now entitled to reject the car. Startline sent Mr S a final response to his complaint on
12 January 2023.
Mr S let Startline know on 19 January 2023 that the car had broken down again. Startline
didnt consider the report from the cars service in September or the recovery report as
evidence of the issues Mr S was now experiencing. It commissioned an independent
inspection in February 2023 but at that point the dealer hadnt provided any information
about the repairs it carried out.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and issued their findings on 20 March
2023. They didnt have enough information to conclude that the faults Mr S was experiencing
were present or developing at the point of supply and so didnt consider he had the right to
reject the car.
Startline commissioned another inspection in May 2023 after receiving further information
from the dealer. Neither report led Startline to uphold Mr Ss complaint and accept his
rejection of the car.
Mr S asked for his complaint to come to an ombudsman for a decision. I issued a provisional 
decision on the 7 July 2023 explaining why I thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld and 
what I thought needed to happen to put things right for him. I allowed some time for both 
parties to comment on what Id said or provide any new information they wished me to 
consider. I havent had any further comment or information from Mr S or Startline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, and having no new information or comment to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions which were that the 
issues Mr S experienced in January 2023 were most likely related to repairs the dealer 
carried out when it had the car the previous autumn and that he should be allowed to reject 
the car. I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Startline and Ill set out my 
reasons for upholding Mr Ss complaint again in this final decision. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, the CRA 2015 is relevant in this case. This act implies 
a term into any contract to supply goods that those goods will be of satisfactory quality. 
Satisfactory means what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price and any other relevant circumstances. The quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
The CRA gives customers solutions if they find themselves with faulty goods that arent of
satisfactory quality. They can reject the goods if the fault happens within 30 days, or have
the goods repaired or replaced. Outside of this period the supplier has the chance to repair
the goods before anything else happens. The supplier must either repair or replace the
goods within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the customer
(Section 23). If the repairs fail to solve the problem then a consumer might be entitled to
other solutions such as a price reduction or a final right to reject the goods.
Startline has accepted that there were faults with the car which manifested within six months
of supply. It seems to me that it also accepted liability for these as the dealer brought the car
in for repairs in September. By then Mr S had driven the car just over 2,500 miles.
The main questions Ive considered are whether or not the faults Mr S experienced with the
car in January 2023 when the car broke down were present or developing when it was
supplied to him. And whether or not these faults might be as a result of repairs carried out on
the car in 2022 which hadnt been successful.
The independent report dated 24 February 2023 recorded the mileage as 91,687 and
confirmed several faults: there was no coolant in the expansion bottle (Mr S said hed topped
it up several times); the oil filler cap showed signs of water contamination; white smoke was
coming from the exhaust; the heater was blowing cold on the drivers side and hot on the
passenger side, and there was a warning displayed relating to the drive train which put the
vehicle into limp mode. The battery charge and fuel pressure were low but the engine started
and was left running for a time.The inspector found that the car was unroadworthy and suspected that the main issue was
with the head gasket. He concluded that it wasnt possible to say the faults were present at
the point of supply although he also concluded that they may have been developing at that
point depending on the mileage since then. The inspector noted that he didnt have the
service report (from March 2022) or the recovery report and Mr S was unable to tell him what
work had been carried out on the car. 
The inspector concluded that he was unable to comment on whether the current issues 
would be deemed to be failed repairs under the CRA 2015. However, he also concluded that 
if the timing chain and camshafts had previously been repaired, then the current issues 
would be considered as failed repairs. After this inspection had been carried out, Startline 
obtained invoices issued to the dealer for parts for the car and work carried out in 2022 
which Ive summarised in the below table.
Date Parts/work Total cost
February Refinishing work £300
4 March Brake pad, disc and wear lead £111
4 March MOT, Rear disc and pads £78
11 March B11 and B13 hoses parts and fitting £224
20 September Coolant sensor £12
23 September Temperature sensor coolant bottle £100
19 October Bosch injection valve and ignition 
coil, spark plug, timing chain (full vvt 
kit), oil filter and engine oil£572
8 November Bare engine £1,635
Startline also provided a list of receipts showing money paid by the dealer to part suppliers
and vehicle repair shops. This shows £915 for seven invoices in March 2022, £394 for four
in September and £572 for two in November. The receipt totals dont match up with the
invoices. It is possible that the dealer bought some of the parts intending to carry out repairs
but didnt do so. However, I think its more likely that the information provided by the dealer
is incomplete.
Startline said this independent inspection concluded that it had no liability for the current
vehicle issues. However, Startline offered Mr S another independent inspection after the
repair information had been received from the dealer. It said this was to determine if there
had been failed repairs.
As mentioned, the February report concluded that if the timing chain and camshafts had
previously been repaired, then the current issues (relating to the breakdown in January)
would be considered as failed repairs. Ive noted that the parts/repairs listed above refer to
the coolant bottle (paid to a repair garage) and the timing chain (paid to a parts supplier). It
seems unlikely to me that the dealer would have purchased parts and not fitted them. Even if
this were the case, the dealer clearly decided that these repairs were required at that time
and accepted liability for them. The recovery service report (at 91,077 miles) had listed faults
relating to the camshaft timing and the coolant temperature sensor and noted a rattle from
the timing chain area. I think Startline had the evidence it needed at this point to conclude 
that Mr S was entitled to reject the car under the CRA 2015 without commissioning a second
inspection.
Ive noted that the mileage is the same on the inspections carried out in February and May
2023 so Mr S didnt drive the car in the intervening time. The report from the second
inspection confirmed that the car had severe issues. There were multiple fault codes within
the majority of the systems likely to be due to the depleted battery and there were elevenfault codes stored within the engine. The inspector topped up the coolant in an attempt to
start the engine and carry out engine tests. The cooling system lost pressure and the
inspector was unable to start the engine although noted that with the aid of a battery boost
pack there was a good cranking speed.
The report concluded that further investigation under workshop conditions would be required
to determine why the engine would not start. Too much time had passed to be able to say
that the issues with the car, which needed more work to understand the cause, were present
or developing at the point of sale. The report in February came to the same conclusion, with
a significant qualifier  if any work had been carried out since the car was supplied to Mr S
relating to the timing chain and camshafts then the current issues would be considered as
failed repairs. The fact that four months later when the car had not been driven and the
engine failed to start it was no longer possible to determine whether or not the faults had
been there or developing 14 months prior does not erase this finding.
This second report found that the current issues were not due to failed repairs. It also noted
that there was no evidence that the engine had been replaced and that there were some
discrepancies in whether some of the invoice parts have been fitted, however due to the time
span this is not solid evidence. My understanding of this finding is that the inspection didnt
consider that the engine had been replaced but didnt know whether there were other parts
which had been ordered but not repaired or replaced. As I noted above, I think its likely that
the evidence we have from the dealer is incomplete but what isnt in doubt is that the parts
listed were ordered and paid for to repair issues that arose within six months of supply. The
dealer and Startline have accepted liability for these faults and I agree that its likely these
were present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr S.
Putting things right
My starting point is that Mr S should be allowed to reject the car. This should be returned to
Startline at no cost to him and the agreement terminated. Startline should return all
payments Mr S made under the agreement, including his deposit. However, I think its fair
that Mr S pays something for his use of the car given hed have incurred some costs to stay
mobile otherwise.
Mr S had the car from mid-March 2022 until 7 September. It was returned to him sometime 
before the end of December and Mr S informed Startline on 19 January 2023 that it had 
broken down again. The car travelled 3,268 miles in about six months (in total). The monthly 
payments were £247 (rounded) but I dont think this is a fair reflection of the use Mr S made 
of the car. Its clear Mr S didnt make as much use of the car as he could have and that his 
enjoyment of it was curtailed by the issues he experienced. I think a fair amount Mr S should 
pay is £150 for each month he had use of the car. This means Startline can only ask him to 
repay a total of £900.
In addition, Mr S has experienced distress and inconvenience by being supplied with a
faulty car. There isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for the emotional
impact of errors. We have an approach which Ive borne in mind alongside everything
else when making this decision. As set out on our website, an award of over £300 and up
to £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable upset and
worry and significant inconvenience that needed extra effort to sort out, typically over
weeks or months. I think an award in this range would be appropriate here.
In summary, Startline should:
End the agreement with nothing for Mr S to pay going forwards and collect the car at 
no further cost to him;Limit Mr Ss liability to £900 being £150 a month for six months;
Refund all payments Mr S made above this amount including his deposit;
Add 8% simple interest per year* from the date these payments were made to the 
date of reimbursement;
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ss credit file;
Pay Mr S an amount of £400 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am upholding Mr Ss complaint about Startline Motor
Finance Limited and it now needs to take the steps Ive outlined to put things right for him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman