DRN-3716196
The complaint
Miss A complains Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim on her sofa warranty 
policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Miss As father, Mr G, bought two sofas for her. He also took out a five-year 
sofa warranty policy which covers accidental staining and damage.  
In October 2021, Mr G completed a claim form. On the claim form, Mr G explained the sofas 
had been accidentally stained from incidents involving Miss As children. His claim form 
noted the following:
- Incident one  water and stomach contents/waste, across all four cushions. Miss As 
daughter has complex needs and is on bowel medication. The incidents occurred in 
June and August 2021. 
- Incident two  pen/finger marks across the arms, bottom of sofa, and chair backs. 
Miss A has two other children under four. No incident dates were provided. 
Amtrusts internal notes suggest the claim form was received three weeks after it was signed 
by Mr G, and a week later the policy was transferred into Miss As name and a technician 
was instructed.
Miss A went on to complain about the delays between the technician being instructed and an 
appointment being made. An appointment was then made for mid-November 2021, but this 
was rearranged by Miss A for the start of December 2021.
The technician attempted to clean the sofas. But at the end of December 2021, Miss A told 
Amtrust the attempt hadnt been successful. During January and February 2022, Amtrust 
liaised with the technician who set out the following:
- A second cleaning attempt wont work. The staining was a build up over a long period 
of time.
- There were multiple marks/stains from various causes on all four seat cushions (on 
both sides), on the back cushions, on all four sofa arms, and on both front borders. 
These are from a build-up of multiple single incidents and its hard to identify each 
single stain. It also seems cleaning products have been used.
- The causes of the marks/stains were water, stomach contents, ink, food, and 
unknown.
Amtrust went on to decline the claim. Amtrust said the policy is designed to cover sudden 
and unforeseen damage that occurs in a single incident, not gradually occurring stains or 
damage. Amtrust said the accumulation of damage being claimed isnt consistent with a 
single incident. In addition, Amtrust noted the policy terms require each incident to be 
reported as soon as possible, to allow the best opportunity to clean the item.
Miss A remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. The complaint was 
considered by one of our investigators, but he didnt think it should be upheld. Miss A 
disagreed, so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
On the one hand, Miss A points towards some specific incidents/stains that are covered by 
the policy. But on the other hand, the policy includes the following terms and conditions:
-Please notify all incidents that may give rise to a claim within 28 days of the event or 
as soon as possible. Any delay in notifying us may mean that the claim will not be 
paid or the level of protection for the incident is reduced.
-Your product is not covered for  Any stains or damage arising over time, gradual 
wear and tear, or your product becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over 
time.
Miss A says the pandemic delayed her making the claim. I accept Miss A couldnt have any 
visitors in her home due to her vulnerable child, and she was unable to see Mr G who was 
the policyholder at the time. However, Im not persuaded those matters prevented Mr G or 
Miss A from reporting the incidents via the contact number provided in the policy terms. 
Even if Amtrust couldnt have inspected the sofas due to the pandemic restrictions, it 
could have advised how to treat the stains and recorded the incidents. As such, Im 
persuaded Amtrusts position was prejudiced by the late reporting of the incidents. 
Furthermore, in view of the claim form and the technicians observations, on balance, Im 
persuaded various stains have been allowed to build up from multiple incidents, and the 
sofas have become gradually dirty to a point where they cant now be cleaned.
So, in view of the late reporting, the technicians observations, and the policy terms, Im not 
persuaded Amtrust unfairly declined to provide further assistance after its attempted clean 
was unsuccessful.
Miss A has highlighted some delays after the claim was made. However, Ive not seen 
anything that would lead me to uphold this part of her complaint.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss A, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman