DRN-3803223
The complaint
Mr B complains about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (WIC) and the 
settlement hes been paid for the value of his car after it was stolen,
What happened
Mr B held a car insurance policy, underwritten by WIC. Unfortunately, Mr Bs car was stolen 
and so, he contacted WIC to make a claim.
WIC appointed their in-house engineer, who Ill refer to as E, to value Mr Bs car. Having 
done so, E valued Mr Bs car at £47,913 and so, this is the amount WIC paid Mr B to settle 
his claim, less any applicable excess on the policy.
But Mr B was unhappy with this valuation. And he provided WIC with quotes of how much it 
would cost him to replace his car like for like. So, he wanted the valuation to be increased. 
WIC passed this information to E to review. But E thought the original valuation was fair, 
made in line with our services guidelines and standard industry practice. So, E didnt 
increase the valuation. Mr B was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr B didnt think WIC had valued his car fairly or provided him with a reasonable settlement 
amount. He explained his car has been insured for over £50,000 and so, he didnt think it 
was fair for him to receive less than this. And he didnt think Es valuation took into 
consideration the extras on his car and how this impacted his ability to purchase a like for 
like replacement. So, he wanted WIC to increase the settlement offer paid to him.
WIC responded to the complaint and didnt agree. They explained the valuation of Mr Bs car 
was arrived at using two motor trade guides, with the settlement being an average of the 
two. And they thought their approach was a fair one, in line with industry guidelines. So, 
while they appreciated Mr Bs unhappiness, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr B remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They considered the 
valuations WIC obtained at the time, alongside other valuations our investigator had found 
themselves using the motor trade guides available. And having done so, they thought the 
settlement WIC provided was a fair one. They recognise this settlement may seem low 
compared to the cost of replacing the car on a retail basis, but they thought it was made 
clear in the terms of the policy that the market value, and the retail value, of a car are 
different. So, while they appreciated the financial impact on Mr B, they didnt think WIC had 
done anything wrong and so, they didnt think WIC needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree. He maintained his belief that, as his car had been insured for over 
£50,000, he shouldve received a settlement in line with this amount. And he maintained his 
belief the extras on the car hadnt been considered. As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think 
is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. I dont doubt it wouldve 
been upsetting to find his car had been stolen. And I recognise Mr B took out an insurance 
policy to help protect him against the financial loss of such a situation. So, when he realised 
the settlement hed be receiving was for less than the amount he felt the car was worth, and 
less than the amount he needed to purchase a like for like replacement, I can understand 
why hed feel unfairly treated. 
But for me to say WIC should increase the settlement offer already put to Mr B, Id first need 
to be satisfied WIC have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that WIC made 
an error when valuing Mr Bs stolen car. Or if I dont think they did, that WIC acted unfairly in 
some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I recognise Mr B took out the insurance policy with WIC very shortly before his car was 
stolen. And when he took the policy, his car was insured for over £50,000. So, I do 
understand why Mr B would feel as though the valuation was unfair.
But within the terms of the policy Mr B held, it states clearly that when a car is stolen, WIC 
will pay the Market Value of Your Car. Within the policy, it explains the market value will be 
obtained using motor trade guides.
I think its important to note that a market value is entirely separate to a retail value, as 
sellers will likely add an amount to the market value of a car to create a profitable return. So, 
WIC arent obliged to provide Mr B with a settlement that would allow him to purchase a like 
for like replacement on a retail basis.
I can also see the terms of the policy clearly state that the market value WIC pays is not 
necessarily the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. So, I dont think I can 
say WIC have done something wrong when not settling the claim at the value Mr B declared 
at the time the policy was incepted.
But I have thought about the valuation WIC placed on the car, to ensure it was calculated in 
line with standard industry guidelines. And these guidelines expect a business to value a car 
using available motor trade guides.
Ive seen E, acting on WICs behalf, used a motor trade guide which provided a valuation of 
£47,500. And they found a second valuation on a second motor trade guide of £48,327. So, 
they averaged these two together, reaching a settlement amount of £47,913.50. 
To ensure these valuations were fair, our service has compiled our own valuations, using 
alternative motor trade guides. And both of these valuations came out at less than the 
amount Mr B received. So, this satisfies me that E, and so WIC, acted fairly when calculating 
the initial settlement offer. And they did so acting in line with standard industry process.
But I can see Mr B challenged this valuation with WIC. And he provided links to online 
advertisements showing that, to purchase a like for like replacement, it would cost him over £50,000. As Ive already explained, a market value and a retail value of a car is different, so I 
dont think like for like cars retailing for more than Mr B received means WIC did something 
wrong. But I would still expect to see WIC fairly considering Mr Bs challenge. And I think 
they did.
Ive seen evidence that shows me WIC referred Mr Bs challenge onto E to reconsider the 
valuation. And I can see E did consider the advertisements Mr B sent, along with his 
comments, but they maintained the valuation was fair. As E was the expert in this situation, I 
think WIC acted fairly when seeking Es opinion and then relying on it. So, I dont think I can 
say WIC did something wrong here.
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Bs comments regarding the additional extras on his car that 
he feels werent considered and shouldve increased his cars valuation. Ive seen both the 
advertisement of the car when he purchased it, as well as Hire Purchase Investigation (HPI) 
check results showing the extras present on the car.
The HPI check shows that only two option extras were included on the car when it was 
originally built. So, any additional extras added to the car after this would be considered 
modifications, rather than an optional extra, and it is a businesss discretion as to whether 
they consider these to be extras when considering a valuation.
It's also worth noting that some modifications and extras may make a car more desirable to 
sell but this doesnt mean that increases its actual valuation.
I note that the advertisement of the car suggest there are additional factory fitted extras to 
what is shown in the HPI check. So, its difficult for me to know for certain exactly what was, 
and wasnt, a confirmed optional extra on the car. So, based on this, Ive considered the 
optional extra that was listed in both the HPI check and the advertisement, which was the 
panoramic sunroof.
I can see our service has sought a bespoke valuation to take into consideration this optional 
extra, and the valuation provided didnt differ significantly from the valuations obtained by 
WIC and our service using the motor trade guides. So, considering this, I dont think I can 
say WIC have done anything wrong when valuing Mr Bs car, and I think the settlement hes 
received falls within the range of valuations that have been obtained in line with standard 
industry guidelines. So, I cant say WIC have acted unfairly and because of this, I dont think 
they need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. And I appreciate the settlement Mr 
B received wouldve been reduced by the excess applicable on the policy, which was a 
significant one. So, I dont doubt this wouldve further impacted his ability to purchase a 
replacement car he felt was appropriate. But this excess is separate to the valuation of his 
car and I cant consider the financial impact the excess had on Mr Bs ability to purchase a 
replacement car. And the policy Mr B held wasnt designed to replace Mr Bs car like for like 
on a retail basis, although I dont doubt Mr B didnt fully understand this at the time he made 
his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman