DRN-2669331
The complaint
Mrs Es complaint relates to her home insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). 
She complains that the compensation AXA offered after they handled her burglary claim isnt 
enough for the effect the poor service she received had on her mental health. 
Im only going to refer to AXA in my decision but Im talking about all representatives and 
appointed experts working on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs Es home was burgled in November 2018. She made a claim under her home insurance 
policy with AXA for five items of jewellery thatd been stolen. These were of great 
sentimental value to Mrs E. 
AXA accepted the claim. The items were valued at a total replacement value of £1,875. AXA 
told Mrs E that the cash settlement they would offer for the items was £1,181.50.
In December 2018, Mrs E agreed to replace the five stolen items with one bangle. The 
bangle was going to use up £1,453 of the £1,875 AXA had agreed to cover. The remaining
£422 would be added to a jewellery website as credit.
Soon after receiving the bangle, Mrs E had it valued at £149. She was shocked by such a 
low valuation. So she contacted AXA on 2 January 2019 to discuss her valuation. As Mrs E 
wasnt happy, AXA asked her to return the bangle and offered her a cash settlement instead.
AXA issued a cash settlement of £1162.50 for the whole balance of the claim on 11 January 
2019. But they didnt explain to Mrs E what was happening.
On 29 January 2019 Mrs E called AXA to ask them what was happening with her claim. AXA 
explained that the settlement payment had been sent. Mrs E told AXA that she felt shed 
been scammed by the providers of the replacement bangle. AXA apologised for this. 
On 11 April 2020 Mrs E contacted AXA again to tell them her complaint hadnt been 
resolved. She said that her policy stated that items which were stolen would be replaced for 
the same value. She felt that AXA hadnt addressed this issue, as theyd never explained 
how the low valuation of the bangle couldve occurred.
On 16 April 2020, AXA offered Mrs E £100 in recognition of the distress theyd caused her 
and for the lack of information. Mrs E rejected this offer. In AXAs final response of 18 May 
2020, AXA offered £90 compensation which they paid to Mrs E on 18 May 2020.
But Mrs E didnt think AXA had addressed her main concern, which was how she felt her 
health had been impacted after feeling like shed been scammed by their jewellers. So she 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. In his first view, he agreed that AXA shouldve 
discussed Mrs Es claim further with her. He could see that their lack of communication and 
clarity had caused her distress. But he felt that AXAs award of compensation was fair and 
reasonable given the service Mrs E had received.
Mrs E didnt think our investigator had considered the impact of the poor service on her 
mental health. So she provided more information. Our investigator wrote a second view after 
taking that information into account. He felt he didnt have enough evidence to hold AXAs 
claim handling responsible for the health issues Mrs E had experiencing since the burglary.
Mrs E didnt agree. So her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
The claim
Looking at Mrs Es insurance policy, under How We Settle Claims it says: 
We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If we cannot replace or 
repair the property we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash alternative (including 
vouchers and / or store cards). Where we can offer repair or replacement through a 
preferred supplier, but we agree to pay a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment 
will not exceed the amount we would have paid the preferred supplier. If no equivalent 
replacement is available then we will pay the full replacement cost of the item with no 
discount applied.
After the burglary, Mrs E provided AXA with a list of her stolen jewellery, which was valued 
at a total of £1,875. AXA accepted the loss of all the reported items. AXA say they offered a 
cash settlement of £1,181.50, which is what it would cost for them to replace the stolen 
items. 
Under the terms of Mrs Es policy, AXA are entitled to limit their cash settlement to the lower 
replacement cost that theyd incur (with their greater purchasing power due to economies of 
scale). This isnt a significant or unusual limitation in home insurance policies. 
Mrs E says that at the time, she thought AXA had fairly valued her stolen jewellery. But 
before the theft, shed had the stolen bracelet valued. She says it was valued at about £600 
for scrap.
Mrs E said she was told that a cash settlement wasnt possible. She was told AXA would 
send a jeweller to show her what she could have as a replacement. She says she reluctantly 
agreed. She chose a bangle which was going to use £1,453 of the £1,875 AXA had agreed 
to cover. The bangle would be made for Mrs E and would take up to six weeks to arrive. The 
remaining £422 would be added to a jewellery website as credit.
After receiving the bangle, Mrs E had it valued. She says she was shocked and angry to find 
its scrap value was only £149. She says she felt like shed been robbed again. 
So Mrs E contacted AXA. She says the difference in the cost and the scrap value of the 
bangle was never explained to her. But she was told that if she returned the bangle her claim 
would be settled for cash. 
AXA note that the scrap value of an item, which is based on the value of the item to a 
jeweller for its components, is always far lower than the retail price. I also note that the bangle was made specifically for Mrs E, so its likely that its production cost was high. But 
AXA didnt explain this to Mrs E at the time she complained.
AXA have also said that they always look to offer replacement items before they offer a cash 
settlement, as settlements are lower and therefore not enough to replace an item. They say 
that they wouldnt state that cash settlement wasnt an option and that this is evidenced by 
the fact that they did process Mrs Es claim as a cash settlement in January 2019. 
I think AXA acted fairly in accepting the loss of all the items Mrs E listed as stolen. And that 
they offered what they felt was a like-for-like replacement. Whilst its understandable that 
Mrs E is upset that the scrap value of the replacement bangle is lower than the scrap value 
of one of the items it was replacing, I cant say that AXA did anything wrong. And in 
calculating the cash settlement when Mrs E returned the bangle, AXA has correctly applied 
its supplier discount when calculating the cash equivalent of items. 
In terms of the cash settlement, the only outstanding matter is that the settlement amount 
AXA have paid was £1162.50, not the agreed offer of £1,181.50. AXA have explained that 
the cash settlement was processed at the jewellers cost of £1162.50, and not at the agreed 
cost of £1,181.50. So AXA have agreed to pay Mrs E the remaining £19 they owe her.
When Mrs E called AXA to discuss her claim in late January 2019, she made a point of 
telling them that she believed their jewellery service was scamming people. But Mrs E says 
AXA didnt try to help her understand what had happened. They simply paid her the cash 
settlement value. I can see that this failure to explain and communicate has caused Mrs E 
some distress. 
AXA has agreed to pay compensation totalling £190 for the distress they caused Mrs E. So 
Ill now look at whether that compensation was fair and reasonable under the circumstances 
of this complaint.  
Impact on health
Mrs E says that she lost the only things she had of sentimental value in the burglary. And 
that the whole incident left her traumatized and drained.
Mrs E feels that the lack of any explanation, consideration or care by AXAs was detrimental 
to my mental and physical health. She feels this led to her having health issues for over a 
year. So shed like to be compensated for physical and mental pain she went through. Im so 
sorry for what Mrs E has been through over the past year. But I need to consider whether 
theres evidence to hold AXA responsible for her suffering.
AXA note that a grumble rather than a complaint was logged at the time when Mrs E first 
contacted them to discuss her unhappiness with the replacement bangle. But that when they 
reviewed her case later on they felt that they hadnt addressed her complaint. So they paid 
£90 compensation to Mrs E to recognise the inconvenience caused. 
AXA say that Mrs E never made them aware of any health issues. They accept they didnt 
communicate well with her, but note that the claim was settled and compensation was given. 
As AXA werent aware of Mrs Es health issues during the course of the claim, it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable to expect them to have made any adjustments to their process to 
recognise those issues. 
Mrs E has provided detailed medical reports and I can see that shes had a very difficult time 
recently. Its clear that the burglary and the poor handling of Mrs Es claim have been 
distressing. But I cant find any specific evidence in those medical reports to make me feel 
that on the balance of probabilities AXAs actions have caused the health issues.So I consider that AXAs total compensation offer of £190 is a fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. This is in line with what I wouldve recommended if AXA hadnt already made 
the offer. AXA have already paid £90. So I expect them to pay the additional £100 
compensation theyve offered, plus the £19 they owe Mrs E. But it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to ask them to do any more.
I know this isnt what Mrs E was hoping to hear. But theres not enough evidence for me to 
say that AXA is responsible for her health issues.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman