DRN-3426528
The complaint
Mr M complained that Lendable Ltd irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable 
loan.
What happened
Lendable provided Mr M with a loan as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount payable 
over loan term
27/3/2019 £5,000 48 months £144.04 £6,919.53
Mr M mainly said that it was irresponsible of Lendable to provide this loan as his credit score 
alone should have been a good enough reason to decline a loan of this amount. He also 
said that if Lendable had carried out appropriate affordability checks it would have been 
aware of his borrowing history and other loan applications.
When Mr M complained to Lendable it didnt uphold his complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He thought that Lendable shouldve 
taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Ms financial situation before lending to 
him. But, as he hadnt seen anything to show that a proportionate check wouldve showed it 
was unfair to lend, he didnt have enough information to be able to uphold the complaint.
We asked Mr M to send us further information, in particular his bank statements and 
evidence of his pay, so we could assess his complaint further. He told us he cant do 
this as his bank statements would be with his previous bank and he doesnt have his 
payslips from two years ago. He would like the complaint to be looked at again as he 
feels very strongly that his low credit score should have been a clear signal that he 
couldnt afford this loan. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law. Having done so, I've come to the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator and Im not upholding this loan. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the 
borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan 
payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must 
take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the 
loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But 
reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when 
thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other 
expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments 
and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also 
find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if 
a loan wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. And even if a 
proportionate check was done and a loan looked affordable, a lender should still 
think about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or 
unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was 
likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower already struggling with 
debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to make any repayments to credit from a lower level of 
income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could 
be more difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular 
level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted 
(reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make repayments for an 
extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Lendable did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr M and thought carefully about the 
following key questions:
- Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ms loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did Lendable make a fair lending decision?
Lendable gathered some information from Mr M about his income and expenses before it 
agreed the loan. It told us it completed income verification with a third party and checked 
Mr Ms credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
Lendable was satisfied that its independent check showed that it could rely on the monthly 
income of £1,510 that Mr M had declared. And after taking into account what its checks 
revealed about his expenditure, including his debt, Lendable concluded that its loan was affordable for Mr M. As far as I can see, the figures it relied on suggested he should have 
some surplus cash to pay this loan so I can see why Lendable felt reasonably able to 
conclude this loan was affordable for Mr M. 
But this was a large loan that Mr M was signing up to repay over the next four years and so 
I think it would have been proportionate for Lendable to have done more before lending to 
Mr M. I think more in-depth checks should reasonably have included seeing direct evidence 
of Mr Ms income. And Lendable should have found out more about Mr Ms committed 
monthly expenditure to ensure it had a full and accurate understanding of his overall 
financial situation so it could be satisfied that the loan repayments were affordable over the 
term of the loan.
But although I dont think the checks Lendable did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
thats not enough for me to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I also need to be able to say 
that if Lendable had done what I consider to be proportionate checks, these would have 
shown Lendable that Mr M couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I havent however been provided with any further information to enable me to say what 
Lendable would have most likely seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. So, because 
of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr M was given a loan that was unaffordable for 
him and this is why Im not upholding his complaint.
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account that Mr M believes his poor credit rating 
was a reason not to lend to him. But it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost 
loan to have a credit history showing other borrowing or even sometimes an impaired credit 
record and low credit rating  and these things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a 
responsible high cost loan provider to decline a loan application that otherwise looked 
affordable even if other mainstream lenders wouldnt have agreed to lend. 
I think its fair to say that the credit information Lendable saw showed Mr M was comfortably 
within his available credit limits and managing his three active accounts well. He didnt 
appear to have been making much use of his £400 overdraft throughout the previous 
8 months. It looked like his overall use of credit wasnt excessive and there were no obvious 
signs that his debt was out of control or that he was in serious financial difficulty. 
Mr M has raised several different issues over the course of dealing with this complaint and 
I acknowledge that he feels very strongly about this loan. 
But I havent seen enough to make me think that Lendable acted towards Mr M in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So I havent identified any other reason for me to award 
any financial redress. 
If I have not referred to each point hes raised its because I have nothing further I can 
usefully add to what our adjudicator has said already. I have concentrated on what I consider 
to be the main points that affect the outcome of his irresponsible/unaffordable lending 
complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr M but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman