DRN-3314329
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) caused avoidable delays to the processing 
of his claim under his property owner insurance policy.
Mr H holds his insurance with a business operating under a different name. But UKI are 
responsible for his complaint as they underwrite the insurance. So Ill only refer to UKI in my 
decision.
I understand this is the third in a series of complaints about UKI. I wont cover either of the 
previous complaints in any detail in my decision. This complaint covers the period from 7 
October 2021 (when the final response relating to the second complaint was issued) and 28 
January 2022 (when UKI completed their investigation into the complaint and made their 
compensation offer of £200 through this service). 
What happened
Mr H made a claim for escape of water damage under his property owner insurance policy, 
held with UKI, in May 2021. The policy covered a tenanted property belonging to Mr H. Mr H 
lives overseas and relies on the managing agents of his property.
UKI appointed contractors to inspect the damage. The inspection took place in June 2021.
UKI also asked Mr H to obtain quotes for the required repairs. When theyd received no 
quotes, they emailed Mr H in September 2021 to tell him theyd close his claim within 14 
days if he didnt reply. Mr H said that in August 2021 hed asked UKI to appoint their own 
contractors to carry out the repairs. He raised concerns that his claim hadnt progressed 
since the survey had been carried out in June 2021. He wanted to know when the works 
would be starting.
Mr H also noted his concerns that his excess for the claim would be £500, as his policy 
documents showed it should be £350.
UKI agreed they could arrange for their own contractors to carry out the works. And 
confirmed that Mr Hs excess was £350. They apologised for their error. Mr H remained 
unhappy that UKI hadnt arranged for their own contractors to complete the repairs earlier. 
UKI appointed contractors and arranged a survey of the property.
Mr H said he had to chase the contractors UKI had appointed for a copy of the schedule of 
works. This had been sent to the wrong email address. And wasnt received until the end of 
October 2021. 
Mr H also said that UKI raised concerns around the costs included, such as asbestos 
testing. He said UKI asked for it to be removed as they didnt consider it necessary.
Mr H said UKI had accepted his two previous complaints and made settlement offers. In one 
complaint, UKI offered £80 compensation for delays to the claim. And in another, they 
offered Mr H £350 compensation as they agreed they couldve done more to appoint their 
own contractors sooner to speed up the process. But Mr H felt that no progress had been 
made on his claim since 08 October 2021. So he complained again to UKI on 14 December 
2021. He felt that UKI were involved in a disagreement with the contracted supplier over 
their willingness to pay for an asbestos test which the contracted supplier had insisted upon 
as a safety measure.
Mr H wanted UKI to approve the required asbestos test without further delay. He also 
wanted them to start the repair works to the highest standards. And to compensate him for 
the further delays theyd caused, which he said have caused his tenants some discomfort.
Mr H spoke to UKI on 16 December 2021. He said that they approved the asbestos test he 
needed. But he didnt agree that they should close his complaint as the required work hadnt 
started yet. He also asked UKI to add to his complaint the fact that the test would cause 
more delay to the work.
But on 16 December 2021 Mr H received an automated response which let him know that 
his complaint had been closed on UKIs system. The email said: But if we agreed to do 
something for you, we will. It also gave Mr H referral rights to this service. Mr H forwarded 
that email to UKI the same day. He said he was astounded to receive it. He offered UKI the 
opportunity to address his complaint before he escalated it to this service.
But as he was still unhappy, Mr H brought his complaint to this service on 22 December 
2021. He said UKI had immediately resolved the complaint about the safety test. But that 
they hadnt agreed the work schedule. Therefore it was unlikely for any real progress to be 
made on his claim for several weeks. Mr H didnt think UKI had addressed his complaint in 
full. He said theyd closed his complaint after agreeing to keep it open. And that although 
hed given them the opportunity to resolve the complaint closure, hed received no response. 
Since the complaint was bought to this service, UKI offered £200 compensation in 
recognition of the service Mr H had received. 
Our investigator considered this offer when he considered Mr Hs complaint. He didnt feel 
that it was reasonable under the circumstances. He felt that UKI were responsible for around 
three months of avoidable delays. And that Mr H had been caused a significant amount of 
trouble and upset beyond what would be reasonably expected as part of this type of claim. 
He felt that UKI should increase their compensation offer to £300.
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr H had asked for compensation on behalf of his 
tenants. Although he appreciated they were also impacted by the delays, he said it wasnt 
within this services jurisdiction to recommend compensation for them as they werent party 
to the policy. 
In what they said was an effort to bring the matter to a prompt conclusion, UKI agreed that 
£300 compensation would be fair.
Mr H didnt agree. He felt that this service had in the past considered a complaint hed made 
about a companys complaints process.  And was concerned that there was no mention of 
the customer service aspect of his complaint in our investigators view. He also said it was 
this services role to chastise businesses. And that hed not been informed about UKIs £200 
compensation offer until hed received our investigators view. 
Mr H also said that our investigator had given UKI another chance to appeal and to provide 
additional evidence. He felt this was biased against the consumer. I can confirm that our 
investigator has followed our usual process here. Both parties have been given equal 
opportunity to appeal or provide further information. And I can see that Mr H has had a number of additional email conversations with our investigator after he issued his view.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that £300 compensation 
is reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Ill explain why.
Can this service directly consider UKIs complaints process?
When Mr H complained, UKI agreed to approve the asbestos check and to keep the 
complaint open. But Mr H was informed shortly after making this complaint that UKI had 
closed it. I can see that he gave them the opportunity to consider his complaint further. But 
as they didnt, he brought his complaint to this service. 
I acknowledge that one of the aspects of his complaint Mr H wants this service to consider is 
that UKI provided poor customer service in responding to his complaint. He didnt feel that 
our investigator had covered this part of his complaint. And therefore felt that our 
investigators recommendation to increase the compensation to £300 didnt include 
consideration of an important aspect of his complaint. He also felt that it was only after 
escalating it that UKI took any action at all. 
But I agree with our investigator that - as hed explained in his view and in subsequent 
correspondence with Mr H - the complaints process itself isnt a regulated activity and so he 
wasnt able to directly consider that aspect of Mr Hs complaint. However, from what Ive 
seen, UKI have now properly investigated his complaint. And in my decision, I will take 
account of the overall length of time that Mr H has been obliged to keep complaining to UKI. 
Therefore, Im of the view that even though this service cant directly consider UKIs 
complaints process, we can consider the distress and inconvenience the complaint has 
caused Mr H over the whole process. All other things being equal, if it takes a complainant 
longer than it should to resolve a complaint, Id expect to award more compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I can confirm that I will base my decision on the correct amount 
of compensation UKI should pay Mr H on the impact the issues UKI are responsible for have 
caused him. 
Have UKI considered all of Mr Hs complaint?
UKI have provided information to this service about their investigation into Mr Hs complaint. 
The investigation was dated 28 January 2022. 
UKI acknowledged that Mr Hs complaint had been closed with no redress being awarded. 
They acknowledged that further avoidable delays had occurred. And that when theyd 
completed the investigation of Mr Hs complaint, it shouldve been upheld with compensation 
warranted. UKI said that if the claim been handled proactively, it wouldve been reasonable 
to expect the asbestos test to take place during November 2021 rather than early January 
2022. They also noted that Mr H had been obliged to complain for a third time. For these 
reasons, they felt £200 further compensation shouldve been awarded. The offer was made 
through this service, as Mr Hs complaint had already been brought to us.
UKI acknowledged that the contractors theyd appointed had caused avoidable delays 
between their contractors site visit on 8 October 2022 and getting the asbestos test arranged. They said theyd chased their contractor many times to move the process along. 
They felt that the contractors had submitted unreasonable requests on costs and had asked 
for an unnecessary asbestos test. UKI said that even after theyd agreed to carry out the 
test, their contractor failed to arrange it. These delays and disagreements caused Mr Hs 
third complaint. As UKI appointed the contractors, they are responsible for those delays. 
UKI approved the asbestos test on 16 December 2021 after Mr Hs complaint. But it wasnt 
carried out until 13 January 2022, when it showed a negative result. While waiting for the 
test to be carried out, the contractors couldnt start the required repair work. This caused 
further upset for Mr H. 
Our investigator felt that the compensation offer wasnt enough for the inconvenience the 
delays had caused Mr H. He felt that UKI had caused around three months delay and that 
they should pay Mr H £300 compensation. 
From what Ive seen, I broadly agree with our investigator about the level of delay to the 
repairs caused by UKI. Ill explain why. 
UKIs appointed contractors attended Mr Hs property at the start of October 2021. But it took 
them until December 2021 to approve the schedule of works and asbestos testing 
recommended by the contractors. And, as Mr H has said, it may be the case that UKI only 
approved the asbestos testing due to his complaint. 
While I appreciate that it takes time for an insurer to agree the schedule of works, I consider 
that in this case, it took too long. It then took a further month before the asbestos testing was 
carried out. I appreciate this was due to a technical issue that affected the appointed 
contractors. But this still caused further waiting time for Mr H. 
I can see that Mr H chased UKI throughout the period of delay. He reasonably wanted to be 
updated about his claim. Mr H had already received poor service on this claim. So Im 
satisfied that the further delays to his claim wouldve caused him distress and 
inconvenience. Naturally, claims like this one are reasonably expected to create some stress 
for the claimant. But I consider that there UKI caused Mr H considerably more distress and 
inconvenience than he couldve expected because of the delays they caused. I say this 
because Mr H has been fully aware from the start of this process that his tenants were being 
inconvenienced. And as he lives overseas, there wasnt much  other than ensuring that UKI 
processed his claim in a reasonable manner - he could personally to do help.
Mr H said he felt it was in this services remit to chastise businesses. But, as our investigator 
has explained, that isnt the case. This service is not here to punish businesses. Instead we 
consider what we think is fair compensation based on the merits of a case. This includes 
consideration of how the complaint has impacted a consumer.
Mr H is correct that we can award compensation where appropriate. Hes asked for 
compensation on behalf of his tenants. So Ive checked the terms of the policy to see if it 
provided any sort of cover for Mr H on this matter. The policy does provide cover for 
Alternative Accommodation costs under certain conditions. The policy document said:
Costs reasonably and necessarily incurred with Our consent in respect of alternative 
accommodation whilst the Building is uninhabitable following Damage resulting from an 
insured Contingency provided that the maximum period during which payment will be made 
under this Extension will not exceed 36 months from the date of the Damage and Our liability 
will not exceed 20% of the Sum Insured on the Building that has been damaged.
But Ive seen no evidence that the property was uninhabitable. And Ive not found any other policy term that means that UKI are obliged to pay out in respect of any inconvenience any 
insured damage may cause a tenant.
I agree that its likely Mr Hs tenants were impacted by the delays to his claim. But I also 
agree with our investigator that as the tenants arent party to the policy its not within my 
jurisdiction to recommend compensation for them.
Having carefully considered the avoidable delays UKI caused to Mr Hs claim, and the 
impact this had on Mr H, I consider that further compensation of £300 is appropriate here.
Should Mr H have been informed directly about UKIs £200 compensation offer?
Mr H said that hed not been informed about UKIs £200 compensation offer until hed 
received our investigators view. 
Our investigator confirmed that the offer had been sent directly to this service. He explained 
that he didnt think the offer was fair based on the circumstances. So he outlined his 
thoughts on the offer, and his own recommendation that the compensation offered should be 
increased to £300, as part of his view.
I can confirm that this is consistent with this services usual approach. 
Overall, I agree with our investigator that UKI should pay Mr H £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience their avoidable delays to processing his claim have caused. 
While Ive considered the other aspects of Mr Hs claim, I dont agree that they merit 
compensation for the reasons Ive explained.
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited should pay Mr H £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their avoidable delays.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman