DRN-2348248
Complaint
Mrs T has complained that Match the Cash Limited (Match the Cash) unfairly provided her 
with unaffordable guarantor loans. She says thorough checks would have shown she was 
already struggling financially.
Background to the complaint and my provisional decision of 30 October 2020
Match the Cash operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mrs T 
being provided with a first guarantor loan in January 2016. The loan was for £2,500.00. The 
cost of the credit was £2,211.56 should the loan have run its term. This meant that the loan 
had an annual percentage rate (APR) of 48.9%. The total amount repayable - £4,711.56  
was due to be repaid in 42 monthly instalments of £112.18. From what I can see Mrs T 
settled this loan early in August 2017.
 
Match the Cash arranged for Mrs T to be provided with a second guarantor loan in July 
2018. This time the amount advanced was £7,500.00. Interest of £10,081.80 was to be 
added if the loan ran to term. So this loan had an APR of 48.9% and the total amount - 
£17,581.80 - was due to be repaid in 60 instalments of £293.03. 
Mrs Ts complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators, who eventually reached the 
conclusion Match the Cash hadnt acted unfairly when providing loan 1 but that it ought to 
have seen Mrs T wasnt in a position to sustainably repay loan 2. So he thought Match the 
Cash shouldnt have provided Mrs T with loan 2 and he partially upheld the complaint. Both 
Match the Cash and Mrs T disagreed with our adjudicator and as a result the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman.
On 30 October 2020, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mrs Ts 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started out by setting out the regulatory framework which I thought was important to my 
determination of Mrs Ts complaint.  
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Match the Cash operated an electronic system in relation to lending which resulted in Mrs T 
being provided with these loans when the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was 
responsible for the regulation of credit related regulated activities. Match the Cashs interim 
permission to operate an electronic system in relation to lending and its eventual 
authorisation to do so meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 
2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules and guidance which apply to firms which operate an electronic system 
in relation to lending like Match the Cash when doing so. CONC 5 sets out a firms 
obligations in relation to responsible lending. 
Section 5.5.3R(2) of CONC sets out what a firm needs to do before making a P2P 
agreement such as Mrs Ts. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the P2P agreement to adversely impact 
the prospective borrowers financial situation, taking into account the information 
of which the firm is aware at the time the P2P agreement is to be made; and
(b) the ability of the prospective borrower to make repayments as they fall due over 
the life of the P2P agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.5.4R says:
Where CONC 5.5.3 R applies to a firm, the firm must comply with CONC 5.3.2 R, CONC 
5.3.4 R, CONC 5.3.5 R, CONC 5.3.6 R and CONC 5.3.7 R to the same extent as if it were 
the lender under an agreement to which those rules apply and should take into account 
the guidance in CONC 5.3 to the same extent, and should also take into account CONC 
5.2.3 G and CONC 5.2.4 G treating them as guidance on CONC 5.5.3 R.
CONC 5.2.4G(2) includes guidance on the proportionality of assessments and says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]Taking into account the relevant rules, I considered that there were two overarching 
questions I needed to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this particular complaint. 
These two overarching questions were:
Did Match the Cash complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs T would be able to meet her obligations under the P2P agreements in a sustainable 
way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs T wouldve been able to do so?
Did Match the Cash act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I also confirmed that if I determined that Match the Cash didnt act fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs T and that she had lost out as a result, I would go on to consider what was 
fair compensation.
I proceeded to consider the first of the overarching questions.
Did Match the Cash complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that    
Mrs T would be able to meet her obligation under the P2P agreement in a sustainable way? 
I started by explaining that the rules and regulations when Match the Cash operated the 
electronic lending system which brought about these P2P agreements with Mrs T required it 
to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to make 
her payments in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Match the Cash had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs T. In 
practice this meant that Match the Cash had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mrs T undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for Match the Cash to simply think about the likelihood of Mrs T making payments, it 
had to consider the impact of doing so on Mrs T. 
The checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I thought (and still think) that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I finally explained that there could also be other factors which might influence how detailed a 
proportionate check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
I carefully thought about all of these factors in relation to the checks Match the Cash carried 
out.
Were Match the Cashs checks reasonable and proportionate?
Match the Cash told us it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs T 
before arranging both loans. It said it also carried out credit checks to work out what Mrs Ts 
existing credit commitments were as well requesting and receiving bank statements from her 
too. Having seen copies of the documentation referred to, I was satisfied that Match the 
Cash did receive this information too.
Bearing in mind Match the Cash did obtain a significant amount of information on Mrs Ts
circumstances, I was satisfied that it did carry out proportionate checks  at least in terms of
the information requested  before providing these loans to Mrs T.
Did Match the Cash make fair lending decisions?
I then explained that it wasnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a 
consumer before deciding to lend to them. So even where a lender may have requested a 
proportionate amount of information, it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards that consumer if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation 
of the information it obtained.
I said this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability 
to repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement,
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Match the Cash said its assessment of 
the information obtained led it to conclude that Mrs Ts loans were affordable for her as shed 
be able to sustainably make her repayments.
So I went on to carefully consider what Match the Cash said and when I did so I also
scrutinised the supporting information it provided. Having done so, I had a number of
observations.
Loan 1
Having reviewed the assessment for loan 1, I could see Mrs T confirmed that she had a
monthly income of £1,571.00 and existing monthly credit commitments of £646.00, which 
included £206 of payments on defaulted agreements. Mrs T did say that her husband paid
the mortgage  although it looked like Match the Cash included the full amount of the
mortgage payment in her expenditure. Match the Cashs own assessment showed Mrs Twould be left with £9.26 after all the declared commitments were met and I thought that it 
was fair to say that Match the Cashs assessment ascertained that the payments to this loan 
would take up pretty much all of the disposable income it worked out Mrs T had.
Match the Cash had said it was incorrect to conclude this means Mrs T couldnt afford to 
repay the loan. This was because there were errors in the income and expenditure 
calculation. Mrs T was paid every four weeks rather than monthly and the income and 
expenditure assessment also included the full amount of the mortgage payment in her 
expenditure.
I thought about both of these arguments. But I wasnt persuaded by either of them. While 
Mrs T receiving 13 rather than 12 salary payments a year meant her annual salary was 
higher overall, I didnt think it was fair and reasonable to translate this into an increase in  
Mrs Ts monthly disposable income in the way that Match the Cash did. I said this because 
Mrs T receiving 13 salary payments a year, instead of 12 simply resulted in her receiving an 
additional payment at the end, rather than an additional amount being paid to her each 
month.
Secondly while Match the Cash said that it incorrectly attributed the whole of Mrs Ts
mortgage payment to her expenditure, the bank statement it obtained showed the whole of
the mortgage payment was going out of her account. So I thought it was correct to
include the full mortgage payment in the income and expenditure calculation and I presumed
thats why this was done in the first place.
I was also mindful that the expenditure didnt include anything for items such as clothing. So
I struggled to see how Match the Cash concluded that it was reasonable to lend to Mrs T
in these circumstances. I thought this because Match the Cash was required to establish
whether Mrs T could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan
payments were technically affordable on a strict calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might have been a starting point 
for believing that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt 
automatically follow that was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in 
order to make their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their repayments 
if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
In this instance, the disposable income Match the Cash calculated barely covered the 
monthly payment required. Given this was the case and the expenditure side of the 
calculation didnt allow for items such as clothing and bearing in mind the number of defaults 
Mrs T already had, I didnt think it was reasonable for Match the Cash to conclude that Mrs T 
would be able to maintain the required payments, over the 42 month term, without undue 
difficulty or borrowing further.
So, in these circumstances, I found that it wasnt fair for Match the Cash to arrange this loan.
loan two
I then proceeded to consider the checks Match the Cash carried out before arranging loan 2. 
It appeared that Match the Cash carried out similar checks  to those carried out for loan 
one  before arranging for loan two to be provided. As I understood it, it completed a further 
income and expenditure assessment with Mrs T and it also carried out a credit check. Mrs T 
declared that she had a monthly income of £1,688.00 and monthly expenditure of £1,121.35.However, this time the credit check carried out showed mortgage arrears and a higher 
number of defaulted commitments. Match the Cash said that notwithstanding this it was 
reasonable to proceed because Mrs T explained the mortgage arrears were due to having to 
pay for care home fees which the council agreed to cover. This meant her finances were 
improving and her husband was responsible for paying the mortgage. 
But I thought that while Mrs T might have told Match the Cash this, the rest of the 
information Match the Cash had ought to have led it to the conclusion it was unreasonable to 
proceed on this basis. I thought this was the case because Mrs T was jointly responsible for 
the mortgage and as Id already mentioned the previous bank statement Match the Cash 
had showed that the payments were going out of her account.
Furthermore, even if Mrs Ts husband did normally make the mortgage payments (which the 
arrears showed he wasnt doing at that stage), given Mrs T wasnt in a position to prevent 
the arrears building up despite her home being at risk or prevent a significant number of 
other accounts defaulting, I couldnt see how Match the Cash could reasonably have 
believed that shed be able to make monthly payments of almost £300 for a period of 60 
months without undue difficulty or having to borrow further. As this was the case and based 
on the information Match the Cash had, I didnt think it was reasonable for it to have 
concluded Mrs T would be able to sustainably make the repayments for loan 2.
So, in these circumstances, I also found that Match the Cash failed to make a fair decision
when proceeding to arrange loan 2 for Mrs T.
Did Match the Cash act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs T in some other way?
I then proceeded to carefully consider the second of the overarching questions that I set out 
in my provisional decision.  And having thought about everything provided, I hadnt seen 
anything to conclude Match the Cash acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs T in some 
other way. So I found that Match the Cash didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs T 
in some other way.
Did Mrs T lose out as a result of Match the Cash unfairly and unreasonably arranging for her
to be provided with her guarantor loans?
I thought that these loans had the effect of unfairly increasing Mrs Ts indebtedness as it led 
to her to being provided with expensive credit for significant sums. These loans were 
expensive and the monthly payments, which also included interest and charges, took up a 
chunk of Mrs Ts income at a time where she was already struggling to make ends meet.
So I found that Mrs T did suffer adverse consequences and as a result lost out
because Match the Cash unfairly arranged for her to be provided with these loans.  
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs T responded to my provisional decision confirming that she accepted it and that she had 
nothing further to add. Match the Cash didnt provide anything further for me to consider or 
ask for any additional time to be able to do so.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the two overarching questions and related sub-questions that I set out in my provisional decision are what I need to consider in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
Did Match the Cash complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs T would be able to meet her obligations under the P2P agreements in a sustainable 
way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs T wouldve been able to do so?
Did Match the Cash act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I carefully considered these questions and set out, in some detail, my findings in relation to 
them in my provisional decision of 30 October 2020. Given this is the case, and Ive not been 
provided with anything further at all to consider, Ive not been persuaded to depart from the 
provisional findings I reached on 30 October 2020.
As this is the case, I find that:
did complete reasonable and proportionate checks, at least in terms of requesting
enough information, to satisfy itself that Mrs T would be able to meet her obligations
under the P2P agreements in a sustainable way;
didnt make fair decisions when proceeding to arrange loans 1 and 2;
didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs T in some other way.
All of this leaves me concluding that Match the Cash unfairly and unreasonably arranged for 
Mrs T to be provided with guarantor loans in January 2016 and July 2018.
Fair compensation  what Match the Cash needs to do to put things right for Mrs T
Ive carefully thought about what Match the Cash should do to put things right in this case.
Match the Cash says it only received an arrangement fee as a result of operating the
platform and that any interest Mrs T has already paid and remains due to pay, is passed
directly to the lenders on the platform. In its view, this means that the arrangement fee is all
Mrs T is entitled to the event her complaint is upheld.
However, Ive already explained that Mrs T loss as a result of Match the Cash not acting
fairly and reasonably towards her when operating the lending system which brought about
these guarantor loans, is all the interest and charges shes either already paid or which
remain due. I dont think the fact that the interest may have gone to the lenders on the
platform, rather than Match the Cash means it isnt responsible for these losses, or that its
fair and reasonable for Mrs T to bear the cost of this.
So having considered everything, including Match the Cashs submissions in relation to what 
it considers to be fair compensation in this case, I think it is fair and reasonable for Match the 
Cash to put things right for Mrs T in the following way:
refunding all the interest and charges Mrs T paid - whether to Match the Cash or
lenders on the platform (so anything over and above the £2,500.00 lent) - on loan 1;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges paid on loan 1
from the date they were paid by Mrs T to the date of settlement;removing all interest and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset  in other words, 
the starting balance on loan two should be reduced to £7,500.00 and Mrs T should 
have to pay no more, in total, than this amount. The payments Mrs T has already 
made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. Match the Cash can 
then also apply the compensation due for loan one to the new remaining balance on 
loan 2. If the amount of compensation due for loan 1 exceeds the new outstanding 
balance on loan 2, the extra should be paid to Mrs T;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ts credit file for loan 1 and loan 
2 in the event no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Match the Cash to take off tax from this interest. Match
the Cash must give Mrs T a certificate showing the tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im upholding Mrs Ts complaint. Match the Cash Limited 
should put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman