DRN-4183260
The complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) opened a second bank account for 
her without her consent and didnt tell her it would conduct a credit check. She says this has 
led to her being declined credit.
What happened
On 4 April 2022, Ms A opened a basic bank account with Barclays but had problems using it.  
She attended a branch in order to deal with this situation, but was redirected to another 
branch for help.
During that branch visit, another account was opened for Ms A  she says without her 
permission. Barclays says that no specific details are available in relation to this, beyond the 
account opening agreement that was signed and reference to its usual account opening 
processes. It says that, in line with its usual processes, the staff member would read out 
standard information, including the fact that a credit check would be carried out. 
Ms A says she thought she was signing something to confirm that her issue with her basic 
account/app had been dealt with and not an agreement to opening a new account. She says 
the member of staff only told her afterwards that she had a new account and that it was 
better. Ms A says she didnt want or need another account as the additional benefits werent 
of any use to her and she held her main account elsewhere.  
Ms A needed to apply for a new credit card to do a 0% balance transfer of some existing 
debt. However, her application was declined. She couldnt understand why because she 
thought her credit rating was excellent. So she tried again but the same thing happened. 
Ms A checked her credit file and noticed Barclays had done a credit check for the second 
account that she hadnt wanted. She says it didnt tell her it would be conducting a credit 
check because had it done so, she wouldnt have agreed.
Ms A complained to the bank. While both accounts were closed, she maintained that the  
second credit check had led to her application for the 0% credit card being rejected, as it had 
been done immediately after opening the basic account. She believed that the overall 
situation on her credit file now in relation to these checks and declined credit card 
applications, was affecting her ability to get credit. She also referenced further 
consequences, such as, not being able to get a new mobile phone contract and move 
house. 
Ms A wanted Barclays to put things right and compensate her for these problems. 
Barclays investigated and offered Ms A £50 to reflect the inconvenience caused in attending 
two branches but it didnt think it had done anything wrong in opening the second account. 
Ms A also raised concerns that her accounts with Barclays were showing as dormant on her 
credit file when they should be closed. Barclays said the accounts were closed but in light of 
some service, it increased its offer of compensation to £100.  
Our investigator thought that the evidence supported the position that Ms A had consented 
to opening an account during her branch visit, but that the credit check information might 
have been unclear. They recommended feedback be given but didnt think  Barclays needed 
to do anymore. 
Ms A did not agree and requested a decision. In doing so, she asked why anyone would 
need to have three accounts, which must support her complaint. She said Barclays should 
have got her consent to do a credit check and there was no evidence it had. She felt this had 
taken its toll.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been a good deal of discussion during the investigation in relation to duplicate 
profiles being set up in relation to Ms A and her accounts. I can certainly see why this issue 
was explored, but it doesnt have any real impact upon the central issues here. The 
fundamental question is whether Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in opening an 
account for Ms A during her branch visit.
Ms A says that she didnt agree to opening an account. And of course, I wasnt present to 
witness what was said. So, I must consider what is more likely than not to have happened, 
based upon the evidence. 
It is clear that the opening of a new account was discussed in the branch. Ms A mentions 
advantages to a new account. Barclays say that this led to Ms A being happy to proceed to 
the opening of an account. Ms A says that she refused and simply wanted her app access 
fixed.
Ive considered the agreement which Ms A signed. While she says that she understood this 
to be in relation to her access to the app, I think that the two-page agreement is reasonably 
clear in what it means. It is headed with Our copy of your agreement with Barclays before 
moving on to Our general terms and conditions. On the second page, where Ms A signed, it 
says Applicant. And it sets out that For joint accounts, both applicants must sign. I think 
that, overall, it is clear that this is an agreement in relation to setting up an account. While I 
cant be sure of what was said to Ms A before she signed it, I think that the agreement she 
signed was reasonably clear. Given this, I cant say that it is more likely than not that 
something so misleading as to undermine that agreement was said by Barclays staff. Im 
satisfied that Barclays is entitled to rely upon the agreement as demonstrating that Ms A 
consented to opening an account.
Ive considered the credit check and the information Ms A has provided from the ICO. But 
Ive also thought about the wider circumstances. Barclays says its process includes a step 
where this information is read out to the customer. Ms A says that this wasnt done, and she 
would never have agreed. Ive no way of determining whether this was done or not. But what 
Ive noted is that the agreement makes reference to sharing information with, and seeking 
information from, the credit reference agencies. The heading in relation to this is clear, and is 
only slightly above the section which Ms A signed. If any potential information on Ms As 
credit file might have been of concern to her, I would have expected her to query it at this 
point, rather than signing the agreement. Im also satisfied that most reasonable people with 
some experience of accounts understand that opening a facility will carry a check. So after 
weighing all of this up, there isnt enough for me to uphold this aspect of the complaint. Ms A argues that a third account is of no use to her. I understand this position, and Im 
satisfied that she may have made a mistake in opening it. But I cant say that Barclays acted 
unfairly or unreasonably during the process or else caused her to make that mistake.
In the circumstances, then, I am satisfied that the evidence does not support finding that 
Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in opening a bank account for Ms A during her 
branch visit. Barclays agreed some service had had shortcomings, for example, sending her 
to another branch was unreasonable. In the circumstances, I think that the sum of £100 it 
offered was a fair resolution. 
Finally, as part of my review I have asked about the reporting status of the accounts in 
question.  Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that both accounts have been 
marked with an end date of September 2022, which should indicate to any prospective 
provider that these arent open for use and are closed. Should any accounts have been 
reported as dormant, this type of status isnt a negative marker and so wouldnt have caused 
detriment.  
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC made an offer to pay Ms A £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. It says it has already paid this sum, but in the event 
that it hasnt, I direct it to pay this to Ms A. I make no other award or direction. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman