DRN-3152156
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with an international payment 
he made.
What happened
Mr M says he transferred £50,000 from his Nationwide account to his brothers account in 
Pakistan in July 2021. He says the money was for a wedding, but the money didnt reach his 
brothers account. Mr M says as a result the wedding was cancelled, and he has lost a 
significant amount of money. He would like compensation for what took place and for the 
£50,000 to be returned.
Nationwide says it processed the payment correctly, but the intermediary bank required 
further information which delayed the transaction in late July/ early August 2021. It says it 
recalled the money as instructed and continued to ask the intermediary bank where Mr Ms 
money was. Nationwide doesnt accept making a mistake and says it did what it could to 
locate and return the money.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and confirmed the money was returned to him during 
September 2021. He has provided evidence from his credit card providers which shows the 
money he borrowed in order to send the £50,000.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought the account terms and conditions 
made clear that there wasnt a timescale on these types of transactions and didnt think 
Nationwide responsible for the request for further information. The investigator didnt think 
there evidence Nationwide was responsible for what took place and thought it had tried to 
request information about the whereabouts of the money.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says Nationwide is responsible for what took 
place and it should pay him compensation. He disputes that it chased the location of the 
money and says it incorrectly told him his complaint had been sorted out. Mr M says 
Nationwides actions have caused him financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate how concerned 
he would have been about the missing money. But that doesnt mean I can fairly hold 
Nationwide responsible for what took place.
I am sure Mr M appreciates that there are a number of other banks involved in an 
international transaction and to uphold his complaint I would need to be sure that Nationwide 
was responsible for any mistakes or delays in returning the money.
There is no dispute that Mr M sent the money in July 2021, but a request was made by the 
intermediary bank for further information about the transaction. I dont think Nationwide was 
responsible for that request and find it had no control over the request or subsequent delay 
in getting the required information.
Im satisfied that Nationwide followed Mr Ms instructions and used the correct account 
details. I say that as I have seen evidence provided by Mr M from his brothers bank that the 
money was sent back. I think that confirms Nationwide did send the money and sent it 
correctly.
I appreciate there was a delay in Mr M receiving the money back to his account. But I can 
also see from Nationwides records that it tried to find out what had gone on and tried to 
speed up the process. I dont think one of the intermediary banks responded to Nationwides 
information requests and I cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible for that. I appreciate Mr M 
says Nationwide didnt chase up the payment, but Im satisfied having looked at its records 
that it did.
Im satisfied that the delay was outside of Nationwides control and that the delay appears on 
balance to have been caused by one of the intermediary banks. In those circumstances I 
cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible for events it had no control over and so cant fairly 
award Mr M the compensation he would like.
I appreciate Mr M says Nationwides actions have caused him financial difficulties, but I dont 
think it clear why he says that. I say that as I think if the transaction had been successful 
then Mr M would not have had the £50,000 and would be responsible for its repayment in 
any event. I have also not seen any evidence of any wedding cancellation costs even if I did 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman