DRN-4427172
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Domestic & General Insurance Plcs handling of a claim on his kitchen 
appliance warranty.
What happened
Mr H had a D&G warranty for an oven. The oven developed a fault in or around April 2023. 
An engineer found it was beyond repair because the replacement parts were no longer 
available from the manufacturer. D&G agreed to replace it under the warranty and a new 
oven was installed in July 2023.
After the oven was installed, Mr H discovered it was a convection  rather than a 
conventional  oven. Mr H was unhappy with this and asked D&G to change it for a 
conventional oven. D&G wouldnt do this. It said:
Its agents discussed replacement options with Mr H.
As Mr H had selected his new oven and it had been installed, D&G wasnt prepared 
to exchange it.
The installation fee for the new oven was £129.99. D&G offered to refund £50 of this 
as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr H didnt accept this and brought his complaint to this service. He says, in summary:
D&G provided a replacement oven with different features from his old one without 
discussing these with him.
He accepted the replacement because D&Gs agent told him it had the same 
specifications as his old one.
Hed like D&G to provide a conventional oven and compensate him for the 
inconvenience it has caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Mr H had chosen his new oven, and this was what D&G provided. He didnt think D&Gs 
refusal to change this was unfair.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy documents set out what happens if an appliance cant be repaired. D&G must 
either replace your appliance with one of a same or similar make and technical 
specification or offer the policyholder vouchers or the cash equivalent. D&G would also pay 
delivery costs as well as disposal of the broken appliance.
Ive reviewed D&Gs notes of the claim and listened to its calls with Mr H. During these calls, 
most of the discussion focused on the colour of the new oven rather than its specifications. 
After rejecting the options D&G offered, Mr H gave D&G the model number of the new oven 
he wanted. In the final call on 19 June, D&G confirmed this model number with Mr H before 
placing the order. Mr H agreed this was the oven he wanted.
D&G replaced Mr Hs oven with one of the same or similar specification, in line with the 
policy terms. I appreciate Mr H might have made a mistake when he chose his new oven, 
but I cant hold D&G responsible for that. Im satisfied that Mr H specified the model and had 
enough time between his first call on 1 June and confirming the order on 19 June to make 
sure this was suitable. It follows that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the policy terms, the policyholder will be responsible for installing the new appliance. 
So Im satisfied that Mr H should have paid the £129.99 installation fee. D&G offered to 
refund £50 of this as a gesture of goodwill. I leave it to Mr H to decide whether he wants to 
accept this, but I wont be asking D&G to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman