The complaint
Mrs T is a director of a limited company that I'll refer to as W. Mrs T has complained, on W's 
behalf, that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down a claim for business interruption under their 
retail business insurance policy.
Mrs T has been helped in making a complaint to AXA, but for ease of reading I'll refer to all 
actions and comments as being those of Mrs T.
What happened
Mrs T claimed on W's policy for loss of stock and income after a power cut. AXA turned 
down the claim because it didn't think the power cut had been caused by damage to the 
utility company's land-based premises. It said that meant W's claim wasn't covered by the 
terms of the policy.
Mrs T provided information from the utility company that said the power cut was likely to 
have been caused by a fire in an underground link box. She said the claim should be 
covered because the fire had damaged the utility company's land-based premises. As AXA 
still said it didn't meet the definition in the policy Mrs T asked it to define land-based 
premises. She said the policy wasn't clear or concise enough to enable her or her broker to 
understand what was covered. She also brought the complaint to us.
While we were looking into things AXA accepted the fire in the link box would be considered 
damage. However, it still didn't think the damage was on the utility company's land based 
premises. It said it considered land based premises to be a building, based on land, that 
contains equipment or machinery. It said it would consider a transformer or a sub station 
land based premises, but not the underground cable network. AXA said if Mrs T had wanted 
cover for this then she would have needed to have paid an additional premium and bought 
terminal ends cover when she bought the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 June 2020 where I explained why I 
didn't think AXA needed to pay the claim. In that decision I said:
The terms and conditions of the policy cover W for "DAMAGE to property at any land based
PREMISES from which the INSURED obtains electricity gas water or telecommunication 
service. The policy doesn't define land based premises but does define premises as "the
BUILDINGS and the land within the boundaries belonging to them.
I accept that the link box and cables are land based, because they are on the land. However, 
I don't think a link box within the underground cable network can fairly and reasonably be 
said to be on the utility company's premises. I say this because while the cables might be 
the utility company's property, they aren't within their buildings or the land within the 
boundaries belonging to them.
DRN-1975935I appreciate Mrs T thought she was covered for power cuts and she's provided information to 
show the most common causes of these. However, I don't agree that the term is unclear and 
I think the word 'premises' being used makes it clear that it's not just damage to any of the 
utility company's property.
Under this level of cover AXA chose not to cover damage that wasn't on the utility company's 
premises. Also, an add-on to the policy would have been available to cover what happened. 
So, I don't think it would be fair and reasonable of me to tell AXA to pay the claim when I'm 
satisfied what happened doesn't meet the terms set out in the policy.
AXA accepted my provisional decision. However, Mrs T disagreed. She said she wasn't 
made aware that there was additional cover available that would have covered these 
circumstances. And that most people would make the assumption she had, that W was 
covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs T thought W was covered for power cuts in any circumstances, but I 
think the policy sets out that cover applies when there's damage to property at a utility 
company's land based premises. If Mrs W doesn't feel she was given enough information 
when she bought her policy, she may wish to take this up separately with her broker. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Mrs T but her comments haven't persuaded me to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional findings, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman