DRN-3655471
The complaint
Ms W says Everyday Lending Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms Ws complains is about three loans provided by Everyday. The first loan was taken out in 
April 2015 in the sum of £3000. The second loan was taken out in November 2015 in the 
sum of £6000. The third loan was taken out in November 2016 in the sum of £9,761.
Ms W complains that Everyday irresponsibly lent to her.
In its final response, Everyday said it hadnt looked into all of the loans because some had 
been advanced more than 6 years before Ms W raised a complaint.
Our adjudicator thought that Ms W had complained within 3 years of when she knew, or 
ought to have known, that she had reason to complain, and said this service could look into 
all three loans.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the checks carried out by Everyday 
were reasonable and proportionate, and that there was nothing in the information it obtained 
which meant it shouldnt have lent to Ms W. 
Ms W disagreed with the adjudicator, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the relevant key rules, guidance and good industry practice, are set out on this services 
website.
Everyday needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W 
could afford to repay what was being lent in a sustainable manner.
There isnt a set list of checks that a business has to carry out. The business needs to make 
sure that the checks are reasonable and proportionate when considering things like how 
much was being lent, the repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure.
I can see that when Ms W applied for the first loan, she had average net monthly income of 
£2335 including working tax credits. Everyday carried out checks of Ms Ws bank statements 
and payslips to verify this. It used Ms Ws net income figure to calculate approximate 
monthly expenditure at £1663. This indicated that Ms W had a monthly disposable income of 
around £700 before deduction of the loan repayment of £296.
Everyday also carried out a credit check. This showed that Ms W had some missed and late 
payments in relation to some other consumer credit commitments.
When Ms W applied for the second loan, she hadnt missed any payments on the first loan. 
When Ms W applied for the third loan, her average net monthly salary was £2604 including 
working tax credits. Everyday carried out checks of Ms ws bank statements and payslip. It 
calculated Ms Ws monthly expenditure at £2238 and her monthly disposable income at 
£680, before deduction of the loan repayment of £456. 
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by Everyday at the time Ms W applied for 
the loans were reasonable and proportionate. There were some missed and late payments 
showing on Miss Ws credit file in relation to her other consumer credit commitments. 
Because if this, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for Everyday to 
carry out further checks of Ms Ws bank statements before advancing the second loan. This 
service asked Ms W to send copies of her bank statements from August to October 2015 in 
order to see the outcome of any affordability checks Everyday should have completed. 
These statements havent been provided. 
I can see that Everyday checked Ms Ws bank statements as part of its checks before 
advancing the first and third loans. Im satisfied that these checks were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the information obtained by Everyday showed that the loans 
were affordable. I havent seen any information to suggest that Ms W was unlikely to be able 
to sustainably repay the lending.
Ms W has told this service that she began to have payment problems with the third loan 
because she was out of work. I can see from the checks carried out by Everyday that Ms W 
was in work when the third loan was advanced. I dont think Everyday had reason to suspect 
that Ms W would be out of work at some point during the term of the loan, as against the 
background of Ms W having been in work when she applied for each of the three loans.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to uphold the complaint for the reasons Ive 
given.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman