DRN-3498139
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way PSA Finance UK Limited trading as Citroen Financial 
Services administered a hire purchase agreement. 
Mr M has been represented throughout but, to keep things simple, Ill mainly refer to Mr M. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties. So Im not going to go 
over everything again here. But I think it would help to summarise the main points. 
Mr M acquired a car under a three-year hire purchase agreement in October 2016. The car 
cost nearly £20,000 and was to be paid back with payments of around £350 per month and 
there was an optional balloon payment of around £8,200 if Mr M wanted to buy the car. 
Mr M has explained he acquired the car for his then partner. He says she put him under 
pressure and coerced him into entering into the agreement. Mr M says hes vulnerable. 
Just over a year after Mr M entered into the agreement, he fell a payment behind. But he 
brought things back up to date a few months later. He fell behind again and entered into 
arrangements with PSA over the next couple of years, but he fluctuated from being between 
one and four payments behind. Towards the end of 2019 the arrears started to grow, a 
default was applied in January 2020 and the agreement was terminated. 
After the car was collected and sold on, Mr M was left owing around £5,000. And around this 
time Mr M complained about being blackmailed into entering into the agreement. 
PSA responded to the complaint and highlighted it wasnt there at the point of supply, so it 
didnt know what conversations took place. But it said it expected the dealer to have followed 
the correct process when brokering the finance agreement. It said it had reviewed the 
documentation and the evidence indicated Mr M had approached the dealer to acquire the 
car. And that the documentation set out hed be the finance agreement holder. Hed provided 
his driving licence to confirm his address and identity. And that there were no notes to 
indicate an issue with affordability or vulnerability. 
The supplying dealer also provided a report that set out at no point during the process did 
the sales team see anything out of the ordinary. And that it was trained to look out for signs 
of duress or vulnerability. The dealer said it agreed delivery with Mr M and that he requested 
a cherished plate be transferred to the car. The dealer also recalled Mr M asking for it to 
supply a bottle of champagne and balloons to be used for the handover. Mr M, however, 
says this was something the dealer suggested. 
PSA highlighted Mr M signed the agreement and adequate explanations document. It said it 
had carried out an affordability assessment and that it thought the agreement was 
affordable. So in summary, it didnt offer anything to Mr M to resolve the complaint. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into things. 
She explained a bit more about Mr Ms situation and relationship to PSA. She asked PSA to 
consider its position. PSA responded to say it recognised his difficult situation and it agreed 
to stop pursuing Mr M for the debt. But it wouldnt amend his credit file because it was a true 
picture of what had happened, and it wouldnt be fair on other lenders to remove the 
information. 
The offer was put to Mr M but he wasnt happy his credit file was negatively impacted. Our 
investigator looked at the affordability of the agreement. She couldnt find PSA had 
irresponsibly lent, so she ultimately didnt think she could fairly ask PSA to remove the 
adverse data. But Mr M ultimately felt that he shouldnt be penalised for entering an 
agreement he felt forced into taking out. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say that Im sorry to hear Mr M has been through a difficult time. It cant have 
been easy, and I thank him for taking the time and effort to bring the complaint to our 
service.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure 
Mr M and PSA that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its 
not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr M acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Having considered everything, it seems like the only outstanding thing to decide is whether 
PSA needs to remove the adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. So that is what Im 
going to focus on. And having thought about that, Im not going to direct PSA to remove the 
adverse data. Ill explain why. 
As a starting point, Ive thought about the accuracy of the information recorded by PSA. And 
what it did to help Mr M when he fell into financial difficulties. From what I can see, for the 
first year or so Mr M paid the agreement without issue. When he did start to have issues 
making payments, PSA gave him the forbearance and due consideration that Id expect. It 
gave him space to clear the arrears and it proactively contacted him when he fell behind. It 
wasnt until the arrears started to grow to an unmanageable level that it decided to terminate 
the agreement. This has been reflected on the credit file, and I dont think PSA has recorded 
inaccurate or unfair data relating to the agreement. 
Ive next thought about Mr Ms assertion that he was forced into entering into the agreement. 
If I thought PSA knew, or ought to have known that Mr M had been coerced into entering into 
the agreement then it may have given me grounds to direct PSA to remove the adverse 
information from his credit file. But I dont think theres sufficient evidence PSA, or the broker 
when acting as its agent, knew or ought to have known that was the case. It looks like Mr M 
approached the dealer to acquire the car. He was involved in transferring over a cherished 
plate. And he signed the finance documentation agreeing to the contract. The dealer provided quite detailed testimony of the sale process, and I dont find theres sufficient 
evidence to suggest either the dealer, or indeed PSA, knew, or ought to have known Mr M 
was being forced into the agreement. So while of course I sympathise with the situation, I 
cant point towards a mistake from PSA here. 
Ive finally thought about the affordability of the agreement. Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about unaffordable and/or irresponsible lending on our website. So 
Ive thought about this when deciding Mr Ms complaint. If I were to find PSA irresponsibly 
offered Mr M finance, there could be grounds to direct it to remove adverse data. PSA has 
not given us much information about the checks it carried out. And, despite it being some 
time ago, Im not persuaded its evidenced it carried out proportionate checks. But like our 
investigator has pointed out, Mr M has shown he was earning upwards of £1,300 per month 
at the time, and he didnt have any rent or utilities to pay, nor any other significant regular 
commitments. So the agreement wasnt clearly unaffordable. And therefore, even had PSA 
carried out proportionate checks, Im not persuaded it would have been unfair of it to grant 
Mr M the finance agreement. 
All things considered, while I know Mr M will be disappointed, I dont find I have the proper 
grounds to direct PSA to do more. It has already offered to stop pursuing Mr M for a 
significant sum. But Im not going to direct it to take any other action with regards to the 
credit file.
My final decision
PSA Finance UK Limited trading as Citroen Financial Services has agreed to stop pursuing 
Mr M for the debt and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that 
PSA should, to the extent its not done so already, take the action Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman