DRN-3103953
The complaint
Ms F complains about the information she was given by a salesperson, when she acquired a 
car, using a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
trading as Audi Finance. 
Throughout her complaint, Ms F has been represented by her husband. But for ease, Ill just 
refer to Ms F.
What happened
In July 2017, Ms F acquired a used car from a dealer. At the time, the car was around two 
years old and had travelled around 30,000 miles. To pay for the car, Ms F used a hire 
purchase agreement with Audi, which meant she made monthly payments of around £200 
for nearly four years. After four years, the agreement allowed Ms F to buy the car outright, 
where she would need to make a final balloon payment of around £8,000. 
During the discussions with the dealer, Ms F says she was told that she could hand the car 
back after two years with nothing left to pay and look for a different car. She says this was 
important to her, as she was planning to start a family and would need a larger car. 
Just over two years later, Ms Fs personal circumstances had changed, so she called Audi to 
arrange to give the car back. But, during the telephone call, Audi explained that Ms F was 
only able to hand the car back, once she had repaid half of the total amount she had 
borrowed. Audi went on to tell Ms F that this meant she would need to pay an additional 
lump sum, if she wanted to return the car there and then. 
Ms F didnt accept this and told Audi that she had been given incorrect information about 
being able to return the car by the dealer, before she signed the hire purchase agreement. 
So, she made a complaint to Audi and asked them to waive the lump sum they had asked 
for, and to allow her to return the car. 
Audi didnt agree and in their final response to Ms F, they explained that the details about 
returning the car part way through the agreement, is included on the agreement forms. Audi 
also said that they have no records of the conversation Ms F had with the dealer at the time. 
Ms F didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators found that Ms F 
was given incorrect information by the dealer, as she had called Audi to hand the car back 
after two years as planned. She was also persuaded that Ms F had planned to buy a larger 
car, when her personal circumstances changed. 
The investigator concluded that although the agreement was clear, she was persuaded that 
Ms F was given misinformation. She found that Audi should allow Ms F to exit the hire 
purchase agreement and refund all the repayments, from when Ms F had last used the car. 
The investigator also asked Audi to add interest to the refunded amounts. 
Ms F accepted the investigators conclusions, but Audi didnt. They said Ms Fs hire 
purchase agreement was clear and that she had been given time to consider it, before she 
was given the car. They also reiterated that they dont have a record of what the dealer said 
to Ms F. 
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and so the case has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. Since then, quite some time has passed. Ms F says she has now 
returned the car to Audi, but hadnt used it since December 2019. She also tells us that Audi 
have asked her to pay the costs for some damage to the car.
I sent Ms F and Audi my provisional decision on this case, on 30 September 2021. I 
explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional 
findings is included below:
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ms F acquired the car through a hire purchase agreement. Section 56 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) has the effect of making the dealer the agent of Audi during the
antecedent negotiations.
These negotiations were in the lead up to Ms F entering into the loan agreement, starting
from when she first spoke to the dealer. But essentially, this means Audi are responsible for
the acts or omissions of the dealer in relation to the sale of the car to Ms F. In other words,
Audi have to stand behind the things the dealer said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the
sales process.
Ms Fs discussion with the dealer
Ive thought about the evidence we have showing what was said to Ms F when the hire
purchase agreement was signed. Ms F says the dealer told her that she could hand the car
back with nothing further to pay, after two years. But, the section of the hire purchase
agreement headed Termination: Your Rights says:
You have the right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the person
you make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods and
half the total amount payable under this agreement, that is £9,382.24. If you have
already paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken
reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay any more.
Having considered the agreement, I think Audi included the relevant information about
handing the car back, which they have relied upon in Ms Fs case. However, in light of what
Ms F says she was told by the dealer, Ive considered if she could have stepped away from,
or ignored the termination part of the agreement.
Neither Ms F nor Audi have any notes, documents or telephone call recordings containing
the discussions shes told us she had with the dealer, during the sale of the car. Because of
that, I cannot be sure what was or wasnt said. So, Ive thought about the other information
available to Ms F and her circumstances at the time.
Before Ms F signed the hire purchase agreement, Audi say she was given a Pre-contractual
Explanations Checklist. Ive looked at a copy of the checklist and amongst other things, it
asked Ms F to confirm that she understood the repayment structure and how she was able
to withdraw from the agreement. This document is also signed and dated by Ms F. So, I
think Ms F confirmed she understood the terms and conditions of the agreement with the
dealer, when she acquired the car.
Ms F has also told us that entering the hire purchase agreement, meant that she needed toend a previous finance agreement, with a different provider. I think this means the type of
agreement Audi made with Ms F, wouldnt have been her first experience of acquiring a car
using finance and with the various terms and conditions used to do so.
Having considered all the evidence, I think the information was available to Ms F about the
termination part of the hire purchase agreement. I dont doubt a conversation with the dealer
took place. But on balance, I dont think she was given the impression she could discount
the content of any particular part of the agreement.
Ms Fs plans for 2019
Ive considered what Ms F says, where she had always planned to get a larger car, two
years after she entered the agreement with Audi. I can see that she subsequently purchased
a different car in 2019 and stopped using the car she acquired through Audi.
Audi have provided us with call recordings from when Ms F wanted to hand the car back in
2019. Ive listened to these calls and I think Audi gave Ms F the correct information about the
settlement figure during the conversation. Ive also seen from Audis records that Ms F had
previously asked Audi for a settlement quote, seven months before she called to hand the
car back. So, I think Ms F may have already been aware of the costs involved with
terminating the agreement.
I accept its likely that Ms F spoke to the dealer about her plans, particularly as certain
specifications of a newly bought car would be important to a customer. But, given the
information available, Im not persuaded the dealer told her she could hand the car back
after two years with no further cost, despite what it said in her agreement.
Summary
Ive concluded that the terms and conditions of Ms Fs hire purchase agreement contained
information about terminating the contract, part way through its duration. Ive also found that,
on balance, I dont think the dealer gave Ms F the impression that she could disregard the
termination part of the agreement.
Although I do acknowledge that Ms Fs plans were realised in 2019, I think overall, Audi has
treated her fairly when they asked her to pay up to half of the amount due under the hire
purchase agreement.
I can see that Ms F has raised a subsequent separate complaint with Audi about the
refurbishment charges made after she returned the car. So each party is clear, I make no
finding on that separate complaint, within this decision.
Ms F didnt agree with the provisional decision and in summary, she said:
- all the paperwork with the dealer was done at pace and she wasnt given enough 
time check it;
- she only became aware of the voluntary termination costs, when she called two 
years after the agreement was signed;
- there may be other calls with Audi, that they havent sent to us;
- the provisional decision accepts Audis version of events, even though theres no 
record of what was said by the dealer; and- having a previous hire purchase agreement doesnt make her an expert.
Audi accepted the provisional decision and had no further information to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F says that the agreement was signed at pace and that she wasnt given enough time to 
check the paperwork. Audi have provided us with a copy of the hire purchase agreement 
and the pre-contractual checklist signed by Ms F. 
While theres no record of the time the dealer gave Ms F, to read and ask questions, I think 
the documents themselves gave Ms F an opportunity to raise any concerns. As Ms F was 
satisfied to continue with the agreement, after signing the checklist, I think the dealer and 
Audi treated her fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Audis records of the contact theyve had with Ms F. I can see that from the 
start of the agreement to the end of December 2019, there were two telephone calls. Ive 
listened to each call, as these were the points where Ms F says she became aware of the 
voluntary termination costs.
Each call matches with the date on Audis contact log. So, from looking at the records, I think 
Audi have given us copies all the relevant telephone calls, to use in our investigation. I do 
acknowledge though, that during the calls, Ms F told Audi about what she says the dealer 
had explained about giving the car back. But, I dont think this shows that Ms F was given 
incorrect information by the dealer. I think the agreement and the checklist are more 
persuasive and on balance, show what information Ms F was given at the time of the 
application.
I accept that Ms Fs previous experience with using a finance agreement doesnt make her 
an expert in how they work. As part of my review about what happened, I have to consider 
all the relevant information. I think Ms Fs experience with the finance agreement she ended, 
to take the new agreement with Audi is relevant. 
I say this because I think Ms F was aware that there are normally conditions attached to the 
returning of vehicles, albeit concerning their general condition or the costs involved to end 
the finance agreement.
But, thats not all Ive based my findings on. Ive considered the agreement itself and what I 
think was or wasnt said at the time, using all the evidence available. Having considered 
everything, on balance, I think the dealer gave Ms F the appropriate paperwork which 
explained the costs involved in giving the car back.
I accept Ms F sees things differently. But, I dont think the dealer misled Ms F or gave her 
the impression that she could step away from the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
So, I think Audi treated Ms F fairly when they asked her to pay up to half of the amount due 
under the hire purchase agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Fs complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman