DRN-1884865
Complaint
Mrs F has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy. 
I understand that Mrs F made a separate complaint about some inaccurate information RSA 
gave her about her policy. A final decision on that complaint has been issued - and I wont 
be commenting on the concerns raised in that complaint here.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mrs F took out, will continue to provide cover 
for conditions claimed for in previous policy years so that treatment for recurring illness or 
injury will be covered until the maximum benefit has been reached. Providing this level of 
cover is expensive so the yearly cost of these type of policies can go up significantly at 
renewal, particularly if a claim is made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium 
could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Mrs F. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mrs F about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has now offered to pay her £500 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been 
caused as a result of this. 
Mrs F hasnt accepted the offer and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of Mrs Fs 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Fs policy is too high, she should have 
been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the future.
While Mrs Fs premium has seen a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going forwards.
I understand Mrs F will be disappointed with this as this was the outcome she had hoped for. 
I recognise that the situation has caused her upset. Due to the medical conditions her dog 
now has, she is unlikely to find cover for this elsewhere. And I recognise the likely continuing increases in the premium in future years means she is unlikely to be able to afford to 
continue with the policy.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mrs F the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone 
wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Mrs F chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover for her pet. And, 
as she chose to take out a maximum benefit policy, she clearly had some interest in the 
greater level of cover it provided. If Mrs F hadnt taken a maximum benefit policy, she 
wouldve either had no cover at all, and would have had to pay for all her pets treatment 
herself, or a reduced level of cover, where she would still have found herself in a situation 
where her pets conditions were no longer covered. So I think its likely she would still have 
gone ahead with the maximum benefit policy, even if shed known the premium could 
increase significantly in the future. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mrs F wasnt so 
surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been 
something she was expecting to happen. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises that better information about the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided some of the trouble and upset Mrs F has 
experienced. And I think it fairly compensates Mrs F.
I understand the payment of Mrs Fs premium instalments has been on hold since January 
2020. As Mrs F made claims in the policy year (2019/20) and under her insurance contract, 
Mrs F owes the unpaid instalments of her premium to RSA for the cover provided. 
Because Mrs F owes RSA money, I think it would be fair for it to offset the £500 
compensation against the amount owed to it.  
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer to pay Mrs F £500 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc can either pay Mrs F £500, or it can offset the 
compensation amount against the amount owed if it chooses. I dont require it to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman