DRN-3670291
The complaint
Mr D trades as a business that Ill refer to as H. He has complained that Lloyd & Whyte Ltd 
(L&W) mis-sold Hs business interruption insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D held business interruption insurance for H through L&W which renewed in April 2019. 
H claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. Hs insurer turned down its claim. The insurer said that the policy 
generally covered claims for business interruption as a result of damage and Covid-19 
hadnt caused damage. They said that while the policy provided cover for a list of specified 
diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases. 
H complained to L&W about the sale of the policy. It said that it had paid a significant 
amount for cover and therefore expected to be covered when it was impacted by the Covid-
19 pandemic. 
L&W said they had recommended a policy that was suitable for Hs needs. They said it 
wasnt reasonable to expect them to anticipate that H might need cover for an unknown 
disease and even if they had looked for cover for pandemics it would have been prohibitively 
expensive.  
Unhappy with L&Ws response, H brought its complaint to us. It said it had bought an 
expensive product and knew of other businesses within its industry that had received 
payment for claims in similar circumstances. It said it had a reasonable expectation of being 
covered, given the price of the policy and that there were no applicable exclusions. H said 
Mr D had called L&W in March 2020 and initially been told Hs claim wouldnt be covered 
because Covid-19 hadnt been declared a pandemic but then was later told that even though 
Covid-19 had been declared a pandemic, it still wouldnt covered. 
Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think L&W had mis-sold the policy. 
 H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of the pandemic on Hs business. However, Im not
going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Renewal
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy a firm
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy thats consistent
with them. As this was an advised sale, L&W had to take reasonable care to ensure the
suitability of their advice, as well as a general duty to provide information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. Im going to focus on the renewal which took place in April 2019 as that 
was the policy in place at the time of the claim. 
There is a Demands and Needs section in the renewal document. That doesnt mention 
business interruption insurance, but I dont think its in dispute that H wanted cover for 
business interruption. In any event, Ive thought about what would most likely have 
happened if L&W had discussed the requirement for business interruption.   
I can understand that H would have wanted some level of disease cover, but I havent seen 
anything to indicate that a wider cover for diseases was something which was particularly 
relevant to H at the time it bought the policy. I can also see that the renewal document was 
sent to H for it to check that it remained satisfied with the level of cover. Mr D is also the 
director of a company which holds the same policy as H. At the renewal of the other policy, 
business interruption was specified in the demands and needs statement but there wasnt 
any specific requirement for disease cover and Mr D still took out the same policy. So, I dont 
think he would have done anything differently if business interruption had been mentioned in 
the demands and needs section for Hs renewal.  
Different policies cover different risks and I havent seen anything to persuade me that L&W 
sold H a policy that wasnt consistent with its demands and needs. While Hs policy didnt 
provide cover for the circumstances of its claim, I cant reasonably expect L&W to have 
anticipated in April 2019 that the industry would require cover for a national pandemic from 
an unknown disease. 
I dont find it unusual for a policy to not cover every eventuality and while some other polices 
available to H might have provided cover, I dont believe that L&W did anything wrong in 
recommending the policy they did. Id expect L&W to highlight anything significant within the 
policy, but I dont think the lack of cover for a pandemic or Government lockdown was 
significant at the time the policy renewed. I also dont think the lack of an exclusion should 
reasonably have created an expectation of cover as an exclusion would only be relevant if 
part of the policy looked to provide cover. 
I understand Mr D was frustrated to find that Hs policy didnt provide cover for the 
circumstances of its claim, but I think L&W proposed a policy that was consistent with its
demands and needs specified and provided information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I think they took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their advice, so it 
follows that I dont think L&W mis-sold Ws policy.
The call
L&W have provided a call which took place on 12 March 2020. L&W said they dont have a 
record of a previous call, but I think one is likely to have taken place as Mr D refers to the 
previous call during the call itself. During this call, L&Ws agent explained why Covid-19 
wouldnt be covered at the renewal in 2020. 
I appreciate it would have been frustrating if L&W werent clear about why Hs claim wouldnt 
be covered in a previous call. But even if they werent clear, I havent seen anything to 
indicate this caused H a loss it wouldnt otherwise have had, as both calls correctly indicated 
that there wasnt cover. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome H was hoping for but having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require L&W to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman