DRN-3271601
The complaint
Mrs I complains about the suitability of the advice she received from Throgmorton Financial 
Services Ltd (TFS) to transfer two defined-benefit occupational pension schemes (OPS) she 
held with former employers to a Personal Pension (PP). 
Mrs I is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by her.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs I was introduced to TFS by a business Ill refer to as Firm B to discuss her 
OPS pensions. At the time it was noted that while she could take benefits from one of her 
OPS at 55, she wanted to leave these in place as she wasnt intending to retire until at least 
60 having started a new job. But in September 2016, Mrs I again approached TFS for advice 
as she was being made redundant and the following month it recommended she transfer her 
OPS into a new PP. 
At the time of the transfer it was noted that Mrs I was aged 56. She had bank deposits and 
savings of around £15,000 and owned her home, which had an outstanding mortgage of 
£62,000. Mrs I had two preserved final salary pensions that were projected to pay a pension 
of £7,433.06 from age 55 and £2,204.20 from age 65. Prior to the transfer each pension 
respectively had a transfer value of £195,140.94 and £32,000.08. And Mrs Is desired 
retirement age was noted as 55. She also had a small pension she was contributing to 
through her current employer. And it referred to information on Mrs Is income and 
expenditure as being in the fact find completed by Firm B. 
TFS carried out a risk-profiling exercise and after discussing this with Mrs I it determined she 
had a cautious to balanced attitude to risk. The fact find and suitability report said she 
expected to be made redundant, so her income would be nil. It said that her objective was to 
take benefits from her pension, as she planned to retire shortly, and that she wanted to 
reduce her expenses by repaying her mortgage. It also said she wanted flexibility to vary the 
income she takes and to potentially reduce this when she receives her state pension at 67.  
TFS recommended in the suitability report that Mrs I transfer to a PP and invest in the 
Profund Growth Fund. And Mrs Is OPS benefits with an updated total transfer value of 
£227,141 were transferred to the PP in late 2016 and early 2017 respectively.
In 2020, with the assistance of a representative, Mrs I complained to TFS about the advice 
she received to transfer her OPS benefits, saying that there was no reason for her to do so 
and that it caused her financial loss. She said she was told this would produce growth 
between 7 to 12% per year and she wasnt told where her funds would be invested. And that 
a TVAS wasnt discussed or provided in writing. Mrs I said she was a low to medium risk 
investor and that her answers on the attitude to risk questionnaire were contradictory. 
In January 2021 TFS responded saying that it made Mrs I aware of the transfer risks and 
clearly set out the receiving scheme and fund in the suitability report. It said it confirmed in 
this that Mrs I had been given a copy of the TVAS, the details of which were also 
summarised in the report. And that the transfer was justified as her main objective was to 
retire at 55 and pay off her mortgage using tax free cash (TFC), but her existing OPS 
benefits wouldnt cover her outgoings. It added that the cautious to balanced attitude to risk it 
agreed with Mrs I is in line with what shes said about being a low to medium risk investor. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs I came to our service adding, in summary, that she was led to believe 
she couldnt withdraw funds from her pension unless she transferred. She told us she 
doesnt know how she would have managed her outgoings if she hadnt transferred. She 
said she had no other available funds and was unable to return to work, as she was suffering 
from severe anxiety and depression due to injuries caused by an accident.
One of our investigators looked into her complaint. He said he would have expected
TFS to have explored what OPS benefits were available to Mrs T before making a transfer 
recommendation. And that without this she was unable to make an informed decision. But, 
given her objectives in light of her ill health and circumstances at the time, its likely she 
would have transferred in any case given what her OPS benefits would likely have been. 
Mrs I didnt agree. She said that it isnt fair to say that if TFS had given correct advice she 
would still have gone ahead with the transfer, as she wasnt given the opportunity to fully 
review her potential retirement position. And that she didnt fully understand the implications 
of what she was doing. Mrs I said the main reason for leaving work at the time was because 
she was relatively new in the company and knew there would be the TFC available for her to 
live on if she left the job  she was enticed by the idea of this. And that she would have 
almost certainly gone back to work after recovering from her injury and not proceeded with 
the transfer.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaints been passed to me for a decision.          
I asked Mrs I for more information about, for example, what her plans were in relation to 
working at the time of the advice and to expand on her ill health and how it impacted on her 
and her ability to work, both at the time and on a longer term basis. 
In summary, she said she wasnt sure whether shed be able to work again, even in another 
role, due to the nature of her ill health and being unable to drive, which her job required. She 
said her anxiety and depression was intensified by her other health conditions and meant 
she was often unable to leave the house. She also said that a few years after the advice 
some of her ill health was explained by an Osteoporosis diagnosis and that she had a 
nervous breakdown. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, while I appreciate Mrs I will be disappointed, Im not asking TFS to do 
anything for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, TFS should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Is best interests (COBS 19.1.6).TFS appears to accept that the transfer would leave Mrs I worse off in retirement because 
she wasnt likely to be able to match or improve on the OPS benefits if she transferred out. I 
say this because the suitability report explains that for Mrs Is main OPS, that she could 
retire from at 55, the critical yield required to match the benefits she was giving up was 
above 50% due to the proximity of her retirement age. And for her smaller OPS it said the 
critical yield of 8.96% is higher than the 6.2% expected growth rate on the fund it was 
recommending. It went on to say it had made Mrs I aware the critical yield may not be 
achieved and that she could receive a lower income in retirement. And then it explained it 
had recommended she proceed with the transfer so she could take benefits to repay her 
mortgage and retire early. Its also since recognised that Mrs I taking the level of income she 
said she needed following the transfer wouldnt be sustainable throughout her lifetime based 
on her average life expectancy, but I cant see that it discussed this with her at the time.
Mrs I says she was advised shed achieve a significantly higher growth rate in her new fund 
following the transfer. But I think this is unlikely given what Ive explained about what I can 
see she was told in writing about this. 
Financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice though; other 
considerations might mean a transfer is suitable. So Ive thought about whether there any 
which meant the transfer in Mrs Is case was suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. 
The documentation Ive seen from the time shows that Mrs I wanted to retire at 55, which 
meant she wouldnt have any income to meet her outgoings, totalling £15,600 per year 
without including her monthly mortgage payments. So she wanted flexibility in retirement to 
take a higher income to meet these needs and a lump sum of £62,000 to repay her 
remaining mortgage to reduce her monthly expenditure. 
Aside from the monthly cost theres nothing to suggest Mrs I urgently needed to repay her 
mortgage though. And I cant see that TFS explored alternatives with Mrs I, such as using 
her savings to meet her expenses. Or that it confirmed to Mrs I whether TFC would have 
been available to her at 55 under her OPS pensions and how this would have impacted on 
the income she could achieve, to see if she could meet her objectives by taking these 
benefits instead. 
While I would have expected TFS to do this to meet its responsibilities under COBS, its 
since provided information showing what Mrs I would likely have achieved if she had taken 
her OPS benefits at 55, assuming she could retire early from the smaller scheme. This 
shows she would likely have been entitled to TFC totalling just under £57,000 and a reduced 
annual income of £5,973. And, taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Is objectives 
could have been achieved by living off her savings and/or taking her OPS benefits instead. 
Mrs Is savings would have only allowed her to meet her expenses for around eight months 
and wouldnt have bridged the gap in income until her state pension became payable given 
this wasnt for another 12 years. Her starting annual OPS benefits wouldnt have been 
enough to meet her monthly outgoings, even when supplementing this with her savings. And 
even if shed used the TFC to give herself an income alongside this, rather than repaying her 
mortgage, I still dont think this would have been enough to meet her outgoings. 
Ive taken into account that the notes TFS made when Mrs I approached it for advice in 
September 2016 suggest she hadnt ruled out the possibility of returning to work at some 
stage given she said she didnt feel she could move to a new job at that point. And that she 
wanted flexibility in retirement to reduce or stop taking an income when she reaches state 
pension age or if she does obtain another job in the future. And I appreciate Mrs Is since said that if shed known the importance of the benefits she was giving up she would have 
gone back to work. 
But I have to consider what I think is likely to have happened at the time. And Mrs Is also 
told us she doesnt know how she would have managed her outgoings if she hadnt 
transferred. She said she had no other available income and was unable to return to work 
due to her severe ill health. And shes explained that as a result she wasnt sure whether 
shed be able to work again, even in another role. It seems to me that her ill health continued 
to intensify after being given the advice. And that she hasnt been able to work in any way 
since then.
So, taking everything into account, I think its likely that at the time of the advice Mrs I didnt 
feel able to return to work and that she had no other way to meet her outgoings. And even if 
she hadnt yet completely ruled out that possibility and might have considered using her 
savings in the short term in that case to tide her over rather than transferring, I think it's likely 
she would have looked to transfer soon after in any event in light of her expenses and given 
her ongoing ill health stopping her working. 
This means I think Mrs I had a strong need for TFC and a variable income which could only 
be achieved by her transferring her OPS benefits, before reducing it once her state pension 
became payable. And for this reason, overall, I dont think the advice TFS gave was 
unsuitable. This means Im not asking it to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Im not asking Throgmorton Financial 
Services Ltd to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman