DRN-3841871
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of the estate of his late father Mr S senior, complains that Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) paid a refund on his fathers motor insurance into 
the wrong account. References to Advantage include other organisations and individuals 
acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr Ss late father had motor insurance with Advantage. When Mr S senior sadly passed 
away, Mr S contacted Advantage by phone to cancel the policy. A refund was due so the call 
handler said it would be issued to a card and gave the last four digits and Mr S confirmed he 
was happy with this. Ill call this card Card A.
Mr S says the refund wasnt received and so he complained to Advantage. Advantage said 
the refund had been correctly made to the same card used to pay for the policy, but the card 
had expired so the refund may have been made to the new card.
Mr S wasnt happy with Advantages response and complained to this service. He said the 
refund hadnt been made to the same account the payment was taken from but to another 
account and so hadnt been received. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She said 
Advantage had done enough to ensure the refund was received by the estate, and had 
provided evidence that the refund hadnt been returned. She also said Mr S hadnt provided 
anything to show that the refund hadnt been received, and suggested he could get more 
information about the payment from the card issuer. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this response and so his complaint has been passed to me. Mr S 
wants Advantage to refund the premiums to the correct bank account  which he says is the 
account from which payment for the premium was made. He has also asked Advantage to 
recompense him for the inconvenience he says he has been put to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint on behalf of the estate of his late father. Ill explain why, but 
firstly I want to express my sincere condolences to Mr S on his loss.
Mr Ss fathers policy documents from Advantage said:
If the person who paid the Costs of Insurance initially pays by debit/credit card we'll make 
any refund to the same card, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the card issuer.
Advantage told this service: 
We informed Mr [S] that we could see the card details on file which ended in [last four digits 
of Card A], questioning if he was happy for the refund to be sent to this account. Mr [S] 
confirmed that he was happy for the refund to be sent to the last card we hold on file.
After some further investigation, I can confirm that the refund has not been issued to the last 
card on file, but to a previous card used.
The last card used on the policy ended in [last four digits of Card B] which Mr [S] has 
confirmed is the [name of bank] account they have. The card ending in [last four digits of 
Card A] was last used in 2020 and in error, this was the card we issued the refund too. Id 
like to clarify that when we take a payment, each one is linked to a unique order code and 
even if the last 4 numbers on the card have changed, the refund will be linked to the order 
code and will still credit the account. Mr [S] has provided no evidence that the payment 
hasnt credited the [name of bank] account, and we believe that whilst the last four numbers 
on the card have changed the amount would have still credit the account.
Furthermore, our finance team have reviewed our accounts and we can confirm the money 
hasnt been returned to us.
Mr Ss father took out the policy in 2020, so Advantage did in fact make the refund in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy, that is, to the same card used to 
initially pay for the policy. It is of course open to Mr S to contact the bank/card issuer for 
further information about the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr S 
senior.  So I wont be asking Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman