DRN-2971580
The complaint
Mr M complains that Asset Collections and Investigations Limited (ACI) waited too long to 
record a default on his credit file. 
Mr M wants ACI to stop reporting the default and pay him compensation for the stress and 
uncertainty that this has caused.
What happened
Mr M owed money to a business I will refer to as L. L sent Mr M a default notice in 
December 2018. 
In October 2019, a business I will call P bought the debt from L and appointed ACI to 
manage the debt on its behalf.
In March 2021, ACI told Mr M that P intended reporting his account to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). Mr M was unhappy with the length of time that this had taken.
ACI told Mr M that the default on his account shouldve been reported to the CRAs from 
when P bought the debt in October 2019. It apologised if Mr M thought 18 months was a 
long time but said that it had to report accurate information to the CRAs.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. She explained that ACI 
manages the account on behalf of P. And that it is P which reports the default, not ACI. The 
investigator said that usually P wouldve taken over the reporting of the default after it bought 
the debt from L. But that P didnt start reporting to any of the CRAs until late 2020.
The investigator left it with Mr M to take things further with P if he remained unhappy. Or with 
L if Mr M thought the default had been incorrectly applied in the first place.
Mr M is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He thinks that it has taken an 
unacceptable amount of time to apply the default to his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M has been upset to see the default appear on his credit file 18 months 
after P bought it. For the purpose of this complaint, I can only consider the actions of ACI 
and whether it has done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly.
Im satisfied that in line with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), ACI 
sent Mr M a notice of assignment (NOA) in early November 2019. The NOA told Mr M that P 
had appointed ACI to manage the debt on its behalf.  
I appreciate that Mr M was upset to learn in early 2021 that a default was going to be 
reported to the CRAs. But as far as I can see, Mr Ms account with L did default in December 
2018. So, I cant find that ACI has done anything wrong when it told Mr M that the default 
would now be reported by P. 
Although there was a significant delay between P buying the debt in October 2019, and it 
starting to report the default in 2021, I dont consider that ACI is at fault. ACI says that when 
P bought the debt, it wasnt reporting to the CRAs. But that once P started reporting to the 
CRAs, it was obliged to report the correct position which ACI went on to do. This seems 
reasonable.
I also cant see that Mr M has been disadvantaged by the late reporting of a default which 
should have appeared on his credit file for longer than it has. The default date has been 
backdated to December 2018 which is correct. I cant reasonably require ACI to remove the 
default or compensate Mr M. Im sorry if this disappoints him.
As the investigator told Mr M, if he considers the default shouldnt have been applied to his 
account in the first place, he should contact the original creditor L. I leave it with Mr M to 
decide whether to take this step.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman