DRN-3600925
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as G has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFUM) mis-sold its commercial insurance policy as the policy 
didnt include cover for cancelled events. 
Mr C and Miss B, directors of G, have complained on Gs behalf. 
What happened
G held a commercial insurance policy with NFUM. G looked to claim on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. G 
said it had been impacted because the events it traded at had been cancelled due to Covid-
19. 
NFUM turned down Gs claim as they said G didnt have business interruption insurance as 
part of its policy. 
G complained to NFUM. It said when it bought the policy with NFUM it had specifically asked 
for cover for cancelled shows because its business had previously been impacted by Foot 
and Mouth disease. 
In their final response letter, NFUM indicated that G had business interruption insurance but 
that the terms within the policy didnt provide cover. However, NFUM have confirmed that G 
didnt have business interruption insurance as part of their policy. 
NFUM said G had taken out the policy in 2007 but they were unable to see what had 
happened at that time as their system had changed in 2011. NFUM said it was clear from 
the policies from 2011 that business interruption insurance wasnt added to the policy. They 
added, that even if the cover had been added, it wouldnt have covered the circumstances of 
Gs claim. 
Unhappy with NFUMs response, G brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Gs complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think NFUM had mis-sold Gs policy. She said that even if NFUM had added business 
interruption insurance then the terms of the policy still wouldnt have covered the 
circumstances of Gs claim.  
G asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it believed it had been paying for business 
interruption insurance cover and the directors felt let down by NFUM. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G has complained about its claim being declined. Thats been dealt with in a separate 
decision, so Im not going to comment on that further in this decision. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Gs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that the central point to Gs complaint is that when it bought its policy in 2007 it 
specifically asked for cover for cancelled events. Therefore, it thinks NFUM should have 
added business interruption insurance cover to its policy. 
NFUM have confirmed that the policy was sold on an advised basis which means they had a 
duty to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their advice, as well as a general 
duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
As I havent seen any documents from the original sale its impossible to be certain about 
what was discussed, and I think it would be difficult for most people to remember exactly 
what was discussed in 2007. However, I think G has provided a reasonable explanation 
about why it would have wanted cover for cancelled events. It also clearly thought it had 
cover for business interruption as it was surprised to find out this wasnt part of the policy. 
So, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I think its likely that G asked for cover for 
cancelled shows when it originally bought the policy but I dont think I need to make a finding 
on whether NFUM made a mistake by not adding the cover. 
I say that because I have to bear in mind that the policy has renewed a number of times 
since 2007 and the information available since that date is clear that business interruption 
insurance isnt covered under the policy. 
The policy documents Ive seen from 2011 onwards dont indicate that business interruption 
insurance is included as it isnt included as a covered heading within the policy schedules. 
NFUMs phone notes indicate that renewal reviews took place in 2017 and 2018. Following 
the review in 2017 NFUM sent G a letter which included a table setting out different 
elements of cover. Small risk is written next to business interruption insurance under the 
column heading Discussed & Not Required. Underneath this it says, Covers are recorded 
as 'Small risk' where I explained the cover available and you felt that this was not economic 
to insure, as you consider the risk is of low frequency or of low value. So this indicates to 
me that it was most likely discussed but G decided not to add the cover to the policy. 
The letter sent to G following the renewal review in 2018 indicates that business interruption 
insurance wasnt discussed in 2018. The renewal invitations sent from 2018 onwards set out 
Gs demands and needs. However, business interruption insurance isnt listed within the 
required cover. I think it should have been apparent from these documents that business 
interruption insurance wasnt included, and I havent seen anything to indicate that G got in 
touch with NFUM to say that cover was missing. So even if NFUM did make a mistake in not 
adding the cover initially, I dont think I can fairly hold them responsible for it not being 
included at the time of Gs claim when it seems to have been specifically discussed at the 
review in 2017. 
However, even if I was to accept that NFUM made a mistake in not adding business 
interruption insurance to the policy, in order to require NFUM to pay Gs claim Id need to be 
persuaded that any error caused G a loss it wouldnt otherwise have had. 
If G had realised that there was no business interruption insurance cover on its policy, I think 
it would have asked NFUM to add the cover. However, Gs claim still wouldnt have been 
paid as the circumstances of the claim arent covered by the policy. So I dont think theres 
been a loss that G wouldnt otherwise have had. I recognise this isnt the answer G was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFUM to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman