DRN-3984998
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) didnt clear a 
blockage properly, causing them to make another claim under their home emergency 
insurance just a few months later.
Mr and Mrs C had home emergency cover with RSA. For ease of reading, Ill refer to Mr C.
What happened
Mr C explained that in December 2021, he called RSA to attend to a blockage in his upstairs 
toilets. Over the next 10 days, RSA attended on three occasions to descale the waste pipe 
before he was able to use the toilets again.
Three months later, both toilets were blocked again. Mr C claimed under his policy a second 
time. The engineer unblocked the toilets, but they were blocked again within two days.
The engineer completed a camera survey which revealed the waste pipe was heavily scaled. 
They descaled the pipes and Mr C said his toilets have worked satisfactorily ever since.
Mr C said the first engineer also completed a camera survey before descaling, so he 
complained to RSA that its engineers cant have done the work properly.
RSA sent Mr C a letter saying it was looking into his complaint. However, he didnt receive 
any further response, so he brought his complaint to us. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr C wanted RSA to refund the second £60 policy excess he paid 
because he believes the work shouldve been completed properly the first time round. 
Further to this, hed like RSA to make a financial award for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator agreed with Mr C that RSA had done enough. He thought RSA should 
refund the second policy excess, and pay Mr C £150 compensation for the inconvenience.
RSA didnt respond to our request for information about Mr Cs complaint, nor did it respond 
to our investigators view. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain.
Firstly, Ill point out that RSA hasnt provided me with any information to consider. In the 
absence of that, I can only consider Mr Cs evidence and the balance of probability  whats 
likely to have happened. Mr C has kindly provided a copy of his policy and schedule, so Im 
aware of the level of cover available to him.
The policy provides Mr C with cover for pipe blockages.
RSAs responsibility is set out in the policy which says it will unblock the pipes and 
restore toilet facilities.
Any work completed by RSA under the policy is guaranteed for 12 months.
The policy doesnt state whether any repairs would be permanent or temporary.
Given that the work is guaranteed for 12 months, and the policy confirms RSA will unblock 
the pipes and restore toilet facilities, I think its reasonable to say the work done shouldve 
been a lasting repair. Instead, Mr C had to call RSA out on several further occasions before 
his toilets were properly unblocked. 
In light of the inconvenience he says this caused him, I think its reasonable for RSA to pay 
Mr C £150 for the failure to resolve matters during the first claim and for the repeat visits 
which couldve been avoided.
Mr C asked for a refund of his second excess payment. I think thats a reasonable request 
because RSA shouldve restored facilities during the first claim. When it returned to resolve 
matters, I think its fair to say that the second claim was covered by the guarantee for the 
first claim. Therefore, I dont think RSA shouldve charged Mr C a second excess. 
To put matters right, RSA should refund the £60 excess Mr C paid for the second claim, and 
pay him £150 compensation for the repeat visits and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must:
refund Mr and Mrs Cs £60 policy excess charged for the second claim, and
pay them £150 compensation in recognition of the failure to complete an effective 
and lasting repair from the start and for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman