DRN-3171361
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal) to switch a group personal pension plan (GPP) to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were then used to invest in several unregulated 
collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr B is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr B.
What happened
Mr B was introduced to Portal in 2014 after hed been in contact with another business, from 
here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative (AR) of 
a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide 
pension switch or transfer advice. Portal had an established business arrangement with 
Firm C, whereby Portal would provide the pension switch and/or transfer advice before 
referring the client back to Firm C for investment advice, and this arrangement was followed 
for Mr B.
Portal carried out a review with Mr B. It noted he was 41 years old, employed and was 
earning approximately £44,000 a year. He was married and owned his home valued at 
around £137,500 with an outstanding repayment mortgage of £60,000. It noted Mr B had a 
loan which he paid £300 per month towards, and monthly disposable income of £695. Mr B 
didnt have any other assets other than his GPP.
Portal noted Mr Bs GPP had a transfer value of £57,331 at the time of the advice which was 
invested in a mixed life fund weighted in favour of equities. The pension had an annual 
management charge (AMC) of 0.90% and the average annual performance of the fund over 
the last five years was 9.62%.
Portal stated Mr Bs objectives were to switch to a cheaper scheme with improved servicing; 
to have more flexibility and control; to improve performance and have a greater investment 
fund choice; to improve on his death benefits and to access his benefits before his 
retirement date.
The risk assessment Portal carried out suggested he was a balanced investor. Portal 
recommended that Mr B switch his GPP to a SIPP to meet his objectives. Portal said it 
wouldnt be providing any advice in relation to where Mr Bs funds would be invested after 
the switch, as this would be given by Firm C.
Portals suitability report noted that it would charge an initial advice fee of 5%, of which 2% 
would be paid to Firm C as part of its introducer agreement. The AMC for the recommended 
SIPP would be 0.5%, plus fund charges. Once the transfer was completed Firm C would 
provide their investment advice and discuss the cost of their ongoing advice service.
The SIPP was established in November 2014 and £57,946.21 was transferred into it. Portal 
took its 5% initial charge, Firm C were then appointed as servicing agent and in January 
2015, £30,100 was invested by Firm C in the following UCIS funds:
Strategic Residential  £4,400
Motion Picture Global  £4,400
Lakeview UK  £4,900
Brisa Investments  £3,300
Biomass Investments  £4,900
Real Estate Invest USA  £4,900
Tambaba Investments - £3,300
The remainder of the funds were allocated to regulated investment funds.
In November 2019, with the assistance of a CMC, Mr B complained to Portal about the 
advice he received to switch his existing pension to the SIPP. He said the advice was 
negligent and unsuitable for someone with no investment experience, a medium attitude to 
risk (ATR) and low capacity for loss. He also argued that Portal couldnt make its switch 
recommendation without taking responsibility for assessing the underlying SIPP 
investments.
Portal rejected his complaint, saying Firm C was responsible for the investment advice. 
Unhappy with Portals response, Mr B referred the matter to our service.
An investigator considered the matter and concluded that Mr Bs complaint should be 
upheld. The investigator didnt think the advice to switch Mr Bs GPP to the SIPP was 
suitable; this was because Mr B's existing arrangements already met his needs and the 
costs were already low, if not factoring in the SIPP charges, investment charges and adviser 
fees. The investigator thought that an internal fund switch ought to have been considered 
instead. The investigator thought Portal was fully responsible for Mr Bs loss because it 
should have considered the suitability of the investments to be made through the SIPP and 
the UCIS were not suitable for Mr B. He thought Portal should compensate Mr B for his loss 
and pay an additional £350 for trouble and upset caused.
Portal disagreed with the investigators findings, saying its advice was suitable and in line 
with Mr Bs circumstances, needs and objectives. It said it had set out the charges and fees 
to Mr B and believed that the new arrangement was cheaper. It added that it would have 
charged Mr B the same fee even if it had recommended an internal fund switch instead.
Portal maintained Firm C was responsible for any investment advice. It said it had carried 
out due diligence on Firm C and it had made its recommendation knowing the type of invest 
strategy Firm C would employ for Mr B. Portal said Firm C told it that it didnt invest clients 
funds in UCIS and it shouldnt be held responsible if Firm C diverted from this strategy.
The investigator didnt change his mind so the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision. 
Mr B has since advised that he made a successful claim to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in respect of the UCIS investments made by Firm C, and 
he received some compensation.
I reviewed the complaint and contacted Portal as I didn't think the investigator was as clear 
as he could've been about what he believed Portal should've advised Mr B to do, which has 
an impact on the redress payable. I also wanted to set out how I intended to deal with the 
compensation Mr B had received from the FSCS in the redress calculation. 
I explained that I thought Mr B's existing GPP was already meeting his immediate needs; it 
was invested in line with his balanced attitude to risk and had achieved an average return of 
9.62% over the last five years. I said the total fee Mr B was paying was only 0.9% - so 
switching his pension would have resulted in increased costs (particularly when taking into 
account the investment fund charges and adviser fees). I also explained that I thought Mr B's 
remaining objectives, such as flexibility, could've been explored closer to retirement. 
Ultimately, I said I thought Mr B should have been advised to retain his existing GPP and 
stay invested in the same fund. So, I explained compensation should be based on the 
notional value of the GPP had Mr B not switched out of it.
 
I also explained that I intended to require Portal to compensate Mr B for his full loss, despite 
the compensation he had received from the FSCS. This was because Mr B had agreed to 
repay the compensation he received from the FSCS if he received compensation from a 
third party relating to the same claim. So, I was satisfied that Mr B would not be 
compensated twice for the same loss.
Portal didnt provide any comments in response, so Im now providing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Portal advised Mr B to switch his GPP to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments to be held in the SIPP as Firm C was providing 
advice on this.
Ive thought about this carefully. But even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise on the 
investments, I think Portal needed to have an awareness of the intended investments in 
order to give suitable advice. This remains the case even if Firm C was actually providing 
that advice. It is, in my view, reasonable to expect a firm that is assessing the suitability of a 
pension switch to consider the overall investment strategy that applies to that proposed 
switch. This would include a broad understanding of the proposed investments, before it 
could determine whether the switch was in Mr Bs best interest. I believe that as Mr Bs 
financial adviser, Portal still had a duty to ensure the overall transaction was suitable, 
notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to be involved.
The regulators position
I have taken account of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry practice at the relevant time. These 
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, 
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules 
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portal to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation was suitable for Mr B. It 
had to obtain information as to Mr Bs knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific 
type of designated investment), his financial situation and investment objectives.COBS 9.2.2R required Portal to gather sufficient information from Mr B to ensure the 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and that he had 
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
And under COBS 2.1.1R Portal had to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client."
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portals advice to switch 
Mr Bs GPP to a SIPP was suitable for him. At the time of the advice the regulator had made 
its view clear that it considered in order to suitably advise on pension transfers or switches, a 
firm needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investments to be held in it. The 
regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
I acknowledge that in the scenario set out in the alert, the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. Whereas in Mr Bs case, Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business 
under its AR agreement with Firm S, and in turn Firm C could itself be pursued for 
compensation by a consumer within the financial services regulatory regime.
Portal may believe that this in turn distinguished the circumstances of Mr Bs transaction 
from the scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to 
assess the overall suitability of the proposed investments. It might say that was particularly 
the case as it had said to Mr B that it wouldnt be providing any advice on the underlying 
investments as Firm C was doing that. Whilst Ive given that possibility careful thought, I 
dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other 
products (such as the SIPP in Mr Bs case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases, regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So, I think the alert is relevant to firms in the position of Portal in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014 which stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not 
suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
I acknowledge that the regulators statement in the alert is not guidance or rules or 
standards in the sense that such requirements are specified by the regulator in its 
Handbook. Nonetheless, I regard it as a relevant consideration when determining this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case.
Both alerts specifically referred to PRIN and COBS, which Portal was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Portal appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr B it wasnt providing any 
advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted basis. 
But this wasnt right. Under COBS 2.1.2 Portal couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or 
liability to Mr B under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited 
retainer didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable 
 again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Bs funds would be invested. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
As part of the fact-finding process Portal had to understand Mr Bs objectives  two of which 
were recorded as to have greater fund choice and improved investment performance  and 
the related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Bs funds were going to be invested 
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be 
inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a 
switch without knowing what Mr B would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind 
seem reasonably possible.
As Portal didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets of 
the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs involvement, 
Mr Bs transferred funds would ultimately be invested. And it didnt set out in its suitability 
report what it thought would be a suitable portfolio of investments for Mr B. As Firm C was 
regulated and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, 
Portal says it saw no issue with this.
I recognise that the FCA allows for two advisers to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However, the alerts make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension switch needs to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the 
switch, in order to provide suitable advice. So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt fully 
understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all So, in the absence of Portal knowing the investments Firm C intended for Mr B, it couldnt provide him with suitable 
advice to switch his pension benefits.
I also accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portals duty to do the same. As 
Mr Bs appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Bs best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Bs funds would be invested.
Portal says that its advisers carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C and Firm S, 
including background checks on key individuals, assessing the scope of their permissions 
and information about previous complaints. It also said it requested details of the investment 
strategy Firm C was likely to deploy for clients such as Mr B. As evidence of this, Portal 
provided a copy of the Compliance Health Check for Firm S completed by a third party on 
12 May 2012. Notwithstanding the statement on page five that Firm S did not intend to 
promote UCIS funds in the future, this document was over two years old by the time the 
switch actually took place. So, I dont think it should have been relied on in perpetuity.
Furthermore, Portal chose to rely on a general statement, given over two years previously, 
that said recommendations of broad categories of investments, with potentially broad 
gradings of risk, might or might not be made in any given case and that UCIS would not be 
recommended. I dont think that was a reasonable basis on which Portal should have 
assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mr B. In my opinion, Portal needed to 
understand the nature of the investments envisaged for Mr B specifically, rather than rely on 
a general statement about Firm Cs investment philosophy.
Apart from the Compliance Health Check, I havent seen anything to suggest that Portal, at 
any point, checked to see how Firm C broadly proposed to invest Mr Bs funds. And I believe 
it should have, given the unavoidable connection this had to the switch it was proposing. As 
part of its duty of care to Mr B, I consider that Portal shouldve at the very least asked Firm C 
at the outset for details of the model portfolios it adopted for various risk categories. And in 
doing so it ought to have checked these lined up with what it considered to suit each risk 
group. Further to this Portal shouldve also asked for the details of the portfolio intended for 
Mr B and the proposed investments. I dont think Portal couldve reasonably assessed the 
suitability of the transaction it was recommending without doing so.
The reality is that having followed Portals advice, a significant part of Mr Bs SIPP was 
invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here. It said that as 
well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, 
high net worth investors), as an example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a clients exposure to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Bs case, after initial advice charges and fees 
were deducted, around 55% of his remaining SIPP funds were invested in UCIS. I dont think 
UCIS was suitable for Mr B at all, and certainly not the proportion invested. Theres nothing 
to indicate Mr B had the requisite knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks 
associated with these types of investments.
Portal says it cant be held responsible for Firm C investing in financial instruments 
representing a different investment strategy to what it anticipated. But as Ive said above, 
Portal didnt say what it considered would be a suitable investment strategy for Mr B, or 
obtain details from Firm C about the investments it proposed for Mr B before making its 
recommendation. In my view, had Portal requested information about the proposed 
investments and been advised that Firm C intended to invest that proportion of Mr Bs 
pension in UCIS, it couldve queried this, given that it had only determined that he had a 
balanced ATR. I think that had appropriate enquiries been made, it wouldve become apparent something was amiss with Firms Cs proposal and that the switch was therefore 
unsuitable and likely to lead to Mr B being exposed to more risk than Portal considered 
appropriate.
Overall, I think Portal needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation to switch took account 
of the investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr B. I think it shouldve asked Firm C 
for the specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and 
Firm C had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portal to 
have advised Mr B that it couldnt recommend he switch his GPP in those circumstances. As 
a result of Portals shortcomings here, it seems to me that Firm C was in effect given the 
freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how Mr Bs SIPP was invested. And if Portal 
had warned Mr B against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr B wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with the switch.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portals advice turns 
solely on where Mr Bs funds were ultimately invested. Portals recommendation that he 
switch to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the switch 
and Portals incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not persuaded 
Mr B wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
The advice to switch
Ive considered whether the advice to switch Mr Bs existing GPP was suitable, but I dont 
think it was.
At the time of Portals advice Mr B was 41 years old, employed and in good health. He was a 
standard retail investor and he didnt intend to retire until age 65. According to the 
information gathered by Portal, the GPP being switched contained all of his retirement 
provisions. Other than his pension there was no record of Mr B having any investments or 
savings. Although he was a homeowner, he had an outstanding amount of £60,000 on his 
mortgage and he also had another loan.
Mr Bs objectives were to move to a cheaper scheme with improved servicing, greater 
investment choice and performance, to pass on death benefits to his dependents and 
flexibility to access his pension earlier than normal retirement age if required. I dont think 
any of these, either individually or collectively, provided a compelling reason to switch his 
existing pension into a SIPP.
Mr Bs ATR was established as balanced. Although Mr B wasnt an experienced investor, 
having considered his overall circumstances I think this was reasonable, particularly as he 
didnt intend to retire for over 20 years and so he had time to build further retirement 
provisions and recoup any losses.
Portal noted that Mr B wanted a cheaper scheme and I acknowledge that the SIPP 
recommended was not particularly expensive  it had an AMC of 0.5%, which was lower 
than the charge applicable to the GPP. But there was a clear cost to switching his existing 
pension into a SIPP. Portal charged him an 5% initial fee and there would also be charges 
associated with Firm Cs ongoing investment advice, plus other product or fund charges 
depending on the investments selected by Firm C. I dont think Portal was able to justify this, 
particularly in view of the fact that they didnt know of the additional charges to be made by 
Firm C.
Furthermore, Portals argument that the transfer would result in lower charges in the long run 
was also undermined by its own statement in the suitability report where it said:Overall, this strategy will cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention is 
that this will be more than compensated for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed.
Any additional charge to a consumer would provide a strong reason not to proceed with a 
course of action. So, the benefits of switching would need to outweigh the cost to Mr Bs 
pension, as he was unlikely to be able to recoup these charges through improved fund 
performance over the short to medium term. So, Ive considered whether it wouldve still 
been suitable advice to switch despite the increased costs.
Portal said that Mr B wanted improved servicing of his pension. But it hasnt said why Mr B 
wanted this or what he was unhappy with about the way his existing pension provider 
serviced his GPP. In any event, Im not persuaded that Mr B needed to switch his pension to 
obtain better servicing, he simply couldve signed up to an ongoing advice agreement with 
Portal or any other business to enjoy improved servicing and monitoring of his pension.
Higher investment performance may or may not have been achieved by switching, but this 
was purely speculative, especially when Portal did not know how the funds were to be 
invested. Any improved investment performance was entirely dependent upon how the funds 
performed over the term to Mr Bs retirement. And in any event, Mr Bs GPP was already 
invested in line with his attitude to risk and performing well  it had grown on average by 
9.62% over the last five years. So, its difficult to see how Mr B could improve on this without 
taking on additional risk that he couldnt bear.
I have also seen nothing to persuade me that Mr B was seeking a sophisticated investment 
proposition or why he wanted access to a wide range of investments. On the contrary, I think 
he preferred simplicity. I think that greater investment fund choice was of limited benefit 
when Mr B had little experience of investing in stocks and shares. There wasnt any 
explanation as to why he wanted a greater fund choice, or what investments he wanted to 
make that were not available with his existing providers. And I dont think the adviser could 
reasonably conclude that Mr B wanted or needed access to non-standard or unregulated 
investments, which the SIPP would provide.
Portal noted that Mr B wanted flexibility and to be able to access his pension benefits before 
he retired, but I think it was far too early to say what Mr B actually needed in retirement. Mr B 
had over 10 years before he could access his pension, so I think it was too early to say 
whether he would actually want or need to take TFC earlier than he intended to retire. I also 
think it was also too early to say Mr B wouldve definitely wanted income flexibility. So, in my 
view, there wasnt any need to address this objective at that time.
The suitability report also noted Mr B wanted improved death benefits. But improved death 
benefits couldnt be guaranteed  it would depend on the performance of the underlying 
investments and their liquidity when claimed. Given the small overall value of the pension 
fund, I think the adviser ought to have explored life assurance instead. This wouldve been a 
cheap alternative means of meeting this objective, without taking on the extra charges 
associated with the SIPP and subsequent investments.
For the reasons set out above, I think the advice to switch the GPP to the SIPP was 
unsuitable because Mr B was not an experienced investor and so did not need the wider 
investment choice the SIPP would provide. It would also be a more costly arrangement, 
once the SIPP provider, fund and adviser charges were taken into account. Overall, I think 
Mr B shouldve been advised to retain his GPP and stay invested in the same fund. I think 
the GPP met his immediate objectives and Mr Bs need for flexibility (if indeed he required it 
in future) couldve been addressed nearer to him reaching age 55.Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portal not to switch, Mr B would 
have gone ahead with it anyway. Having carefully considered all the circumstances in this 
case, I dont believe he would have. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr B was seriously 
considering moving his existing plan prior to being referred to Portal for a pension review, 
particularly as he couldnt access his benefits for at least another 13 years. Mr Bs existing 
GPP was performing well and he didnt have any pressing objectives that couldve only been 
addressed by switching. So, I think he wouldve listened to Portals advice and kept his 
existing arrangements as they were.
Is Portal wholly responsible for Mr Bs loss?
I recognise it can be argued Firm C is also liable to Mr B and that in turn I should apportion 
only part of the responsibility to Portal. Having given this careful thought though, in the 
circumstances, I think it is fair to find Portal wholly responsible and, in turn, to direct it to 
compensate Mr B for the whole of his loss.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portal were in a business relationship in 
which each agreed to provide services designed to bring about a single outcome for clients  
pension transfer or switch advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt authorised to 
provide pension transfer or switch advice, it referred Mr B to Portal. Portal advised Mr B to 
switch his benefits to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension 
benefits to be switched to this. I acknowledge Firm C advised Mr B to invest a significant 
share of his SIPP funds in UCIS. But, as I will explain in my final decision, Portals 
understanding that it could reasonably limit its advice to just the switch and the SIPP was 
wrong; it needed to consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising 
Mr B on them. It was only as a result of Portals involvement that Mr B switched the funds 
held in his existing plan to the SIPP. Portals role was pivotal, since the eventual investments 
were fully reliant on the funds being switched over first; if that hadnt happened, he couldnt 
have invested as he did. In any event, and as I say, it is clear that Firm C and Portal had 
agreed to enter a business relationship together which was designed to bring about the very 
outcome thats caused Mr Bs loss.
Portal argues that Firm C is responsible for the investment advice and so Mr B should avail 
himself of any compensation he may be entitled to by making a claim to the FSCS. It also 
says that the amount of any award made against Portal should be limited by taking that 
payment into account. In ordinary circumstances, as the FSCS describes itself as a fund of 
last resort, it is my understanding that it is unlikely it will pay out on claims where it is aware 
that another firm was involved in the transaction, and where it considers there is a 
reasonable prospect of the consumer making a recovery against that firm for the loss 
suffered.
Nonetheless, whether to postpone payment of compensation (to enable the consumer 
to recover compensation from a third party) is a matter entirely for the FSCS.
In this case, it seems the FSCS decided to award Mr B some compensation before 
the determination of his complaint with this service. In those circumstances, Im aware that 
as a condition of accepting compensation from the FSCS, Mr B was asked to give to the 
FSCS an assignment of his rights to make a claim against third parties. This would have 
enabled the FSCS to make a claim in recovery of that compensation against those third 
parties and the PI insurer of Firm C.
It follows that for Mr B to make a complaint to this service about Portal, he needed to ask the 
FSCS for a reassignment of those rights. I can see Mr B has now obtained that which 
contains, as a condition, the following requirement:The Claimant agrees that in respect of the Reassigned Rights the proceeds of the claim 
shall first be applied to repay an amount equal to the Compensation Sum to FSCS together 
with interest on the Compensation Sum from the date of receipt of the proceeds by the 
Claimant to the date of payment by the Claimant to FSCS at a daily rate equivalent to the 
Bank of England base rate from time to time (subject to a minimum rate of 0.1%), such 
payment to be made to FSCS within 14 days of receipt. The payment to FSCS shall be 
made after the deduction from the proceeds of the Claimant's reasonable legal costs 
incurred in pursuing a claim in respect of the Reassigned Rights.
Portal may argue that because Mr B has already recovered some of his funds from the 
FSCS, it should not have to account to him for that portion of his loss. However, as per 
the reassignment of rights agreement Mr B entered into with the FSCS, I can see he has 
agreed to repay the compensation he received from the FSCS if he receives compensation 
from a third party relating to the same claim.
From this, I think that:
1. There is no real risk of Mr B benefiting from double recovery, as hes contractually 
required to pay back to FSCS the full amount of the compensation it paid to him; and
2. I have seen nothing to suggest Mr B is unlikely to comply with that requirement in 
accordance with the deed of reassignment;
3. If I didnt direct Portal to pay compensation to Mr B for the full amount of his loss (in 
circumstances where I have determined it is responsible for 100% of that loss), he 
would nonetheless still be required to account to FSCS from the compensation he 
receives from Portal and would, in turn, be left out of pocket.
All in all, I maintain my view that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Portal to pay Mr B 
compensation for the full amount of his loss.
 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have kept his GPP with his previous provider, however I 
cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have 
been worth. But I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this 
into account and given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
Portal should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr B £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice, which has led to a significant loss.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Portal 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr B provides an undertaking 
to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr B's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional 
value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr B's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set out 
above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid assets, or this is 
something that Mr B can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr B's circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman