DRN-1511313
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the interest rates on their mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took a fixed rate on their Halifax mortgage in 2017. It was a two-year fixed rate 
at 1.79% and the mortgage offer said it expired on 31 August 2019  and that an early 
repayment charge (ERC) would be payable if the fixed rate ended before then.
Mr and Mrs R ported their mortgage to a new property in early 2019. They borrowed more 
money. Their existing balance was subject to the 1.79% rate theyd taken out in 2017. They 
also took a new two-year fixed rate of 1.91%. This means they now had two sub-accounts:
Sub-account one, the ported balance on 1.79% running to August 2019;
Sub-account two, the new borrowing on 1.91% running to May 2021.
In August 2019, the 1.79% rate expired. Mr and Mrs R took a new fixed rate on that element 
of their mortgage. So now their mortgage was:
Sub-account one, the ported balance on 2.69% running to October 2022;
Sub-account two, the new borrowing on 1.91% running to May 2021.
Mr and Mrs R complained. They said they hadnt been treated fairly. They said the new rate 
on sub-account one wasnt fair, because as existing customers they were being charged 
more than new customers. And they said Halifax allows a rate to be changed without ERC a 
few months before it expires, so if they waited a month or so before taking the new mortgage 
they could have applied the 1.91% rate to the whole balance without an ERC  but the 
adviser hadnt told them that. 
They said they felt they had no choice but to accept a higher rate on sub-account one 
because if they moved their mortgage to another lender they would incur an ERC on sub-
account two until 2021. And if they wanted to move in 2021 they would have to pay an ERC 
on sub-account one  or stay on the higher standard variable rate (SVR) for a year. They 
didnt understand why the rate had gone up by around 0.8% in such a short period. 
Halifax didnt agree that either rate had been mis-sold. It said that when they discussed 
porting their mortgage, in January 2018, they were still in an ERC period. So they either had 
to port or pay the ERC. They wouldnt be able to take new product on the old balance 
without paying an ERC until June 2019. And the rates they had available had changed by 
the time the 1.79% expired, and rates are set based on a range of commercial factors  and 
in January 2019, the adviser couldnt have predicted what future rates would be.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs R asked for an ombudsman to 
review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage advisers notes from the 2019 house move record that Mr and Mrs R were 
originally considering a rate for up to five years, but in the end chose two years, as they 
believed their property might go up in value  and a higher loan to value in the future might 
entitle them to a lower rate. 
Theres no record of a discussion about the old borrowing and the new borrowing having 
product terms of different lengths. But I dont think this makes the advice unsuitable.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs R are unhappy about this, and feel theyve been 
disadvantaged. But I dont think that, in fact, they have been.
This is a feature of how mortgages, and interest rate products, work. They applied for their 
new mortgage in January. I dont think it would have been feasible for them to have waited 
six months, until June, to make an application without risking losing their buyer and / or the 
new property they wanted to buy. So their only realistic options at this time were to have two 
separate sub-accounts with two separate products, or to pay the ERC on the old borrowing 
and put everything on the new interest rate. As the rate for the new borrowing was higher, 
and they would have paid an ERC of over £2,000, I dont think this would have been the best 
way forward for them. Of the options realistically open to them, I think the one they were 
advised to take was the most suitable.
Mr and Mrs R point out that Halifaxs rates aren't for exactly two or three years  for 
example, the rate they took in August 2019 expires in October 2022. Thats not unusual; 
many lenders do the same thing. Its because of how mortgages are funded. The lenders 
funding ends at a specific date  and so do the mortgages it lends with those funds. In 
practice, a two-year rate will be slightly more or slightly less than two years for individual 
borrowers depending on exactly when they complete. But the offer documentation clearly 
sets out the date the product runs to, so Mr and Mrs R would have been aware of that when 
they took it out.
And while the products on the two sub-accounts dont end at the same time at the moment, it 
may be possible to join them up in the future depending on what products Mr and Mrs R 
choose to take in the future. I accept this may cause a problem if it turns out not to be 
possible, if they choose to move away from Halifax in the future  in that they will either have 
to pay an ERC on one part of the borrowing, or have the other on the SVR for a time.
But thats a theoretical problem for the future. And its only a problem because Mr and Mrs R 
chose to port their mortgage  to avoid exactly the same problem arising when they moved 
house. When they paid back the mortgage on their old property and took out a new one on 
the new house, they had the choice of porting the old interest rate, or paying an ERC. That 
choice arose because they chose to move house before their product ended. So, in a way, 
by porting theyve postponed having to pay an ERC on the initial borrowing to a possible (but 
not certain) future date  instead of certainly having to pay it in 2019. I dont think they are 
worse off as a result.
When it came to August 2019, the new rate Mr and Mrs R took on sub-account one was 
higher than the previous rate, and higher than the rate they took on sub-account two a few 
months earlier. Thats unfortunate, but rates do change all the time depending on various 
things  including the lenders cost of funding, the costs of its mortgage business, and many 
other factors. It couldnt have been known in January what rates would be available in 
August.Ive looked at the range of rates Halifax had around this time. It had a wide range for Mr and 
Mrs R to choose from. The rates for new customers and existing customers are slightly 
different. But I dont think thats unfair. As Ive said, lenders take a range of factors into 
account in setting their rates. One of those factors is the extent to which their business 
model is geared to attracting new customers, retaining existing customers, or both. Thats a 
legitimate commercial consideration. 
In practice theres a small difference between the rates Halifax offered the two. Some of its 
rates were higher for new customers, and some for existing customers. It might be different if 
Halifax offered no rates at all to existing customers, or there was a very substantial 
difference between the two. But thats not the case here, and so I dont think Halifaxs 
commercial discretion resulted in unfairness. 
Taking everything into account, therefore, I dont think Mr and Mrs R have been treated 
unfairly. And so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman