DRN-3536207
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not remove Tech and 
Travel packs that were associated with his account.
What happened
Mr G has explained that around three years ago, he contacted Barclays and asked for his 
Tech and Travel packs to be removed from his account. He says that he did this by letter 
and during a visit to a branch of Barclays.
The Tech and Travel packs were not removed from the account, so monthly fees were 
charged until the packs were cancelled in 2021.
Mr G provided records to show that he asked via online chat for his packs to be removed in 
February 2021. Our adjudicator thought that Barclays should refund the pack fees charged 
after this point. Barclays agreed with this. Mr G did not accept this offer and therefore this 
complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr G and Barclays have told us or sent us about the complaint. And Ive 
decided that this complaint should be upheld in part. Ive explained why below.
The crux of the matter is when Mr G asked Barclays to remove the packs. From what I can 
see there is no evidence that he did this, until February 2021. Given this, there is not enough 
for me to say, albeit on balance, that a request was made to remove the packs, and that 
Barclays then failed to act upon such a request until February 2021.
In addition, I cant see that Mr G ever queried why the packs remained on his account. I think 
it wouldve been clear on the documentation issued by Barclays, such as bank statements 
and annual summary statements, that the Tech and Travel packs remained on his account. 
So I think overall had Mr G requested the packs to be removed in 2018 he would have 
queried this earlier than he did, especially as I can see he was in contact with Barclays about 
a loan in 2019.
So overall, as the first record of Mr G actually asking for the packs to be removed is in 
February 2021, I think that a refund of the packs fees from this point is reasonable.
Putting things right
So taking everything into consideration I think what Barclays has agreed to do, which is 
refund the Tech and Travel pack fees that Mr G paid from February 2021, with interest at 8% 
simple, is fair and reasonable for this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am partially upholding Mr Gs complaint and Barclays 
needs to do what I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman