DRN-3197699
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) 
has handled their claim for subsidence under their landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C first became aware of the subsidence when internal cracks were discovered at 
their rental property in November 2018. They contacted UKI and a loss adjuster was sent to 
the property to assess the damage and manage the claim. 
A report was issued identifying defective drains at the neighbouring property as the cause of 
the subsidence. The loss adjuster contacted the neighbours asking them to repair the drains, 
but those repairs were not ultimately carried out until March 2021.  
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the delays and lack of progress with their claim and so 
they raised a complaint. They said theyd needed to remortgage their property in 2019, but 
because the claim was still ongoing, their mortgage broker was unable to secure them the 
best available deal at that time. So theyd lost out financially. They were also unhappy they 
were being held liable for 38% of their reinstatement costs, because their policy had a clause 
saying this would happen if they were underinsured.
UKI said it acknowledged the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of the delays, 
and offered Mr and Mrs C £150 in recognition of this. But it said it wouldnt pay the difference 
in mortgage rates as it had asked for evidence of this, so it could review the matter further, 
but hadnt received any. It also said Mr and Mrs C had misrepresented the buildings sum 
insured, which was therefore inadequate at the time of the claim, so UKI would only be liable 
for 62% of the reinstatement costs.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with UKIs response and referred their complaint to this 
service. They said it wasnt fair to hold them liable for 38% of the reinstatement costs, that 
UKI hadnt explained why their premiums had gone up, and that the £150 goodwill payment 
didnt address the fact the claim had been ongoing for around three years.
Our investigator considered the issues and thought the complaint should be upheld. UKI 
disagreed with our investigators recommendations and so the complaint has now come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Looking first at UKIs decision that Mr and Mrs C misrepresented the building sums insured 
which left them underinsured at the time of their claim, Ive considered what the Insurance 
Act 2015 says about a commercial customers obligation to make a fair presentation of risk 
to their insurer. The Act says a commercial customer must make the following disclosure:
(a) disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know
(b) failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing 
those material circumstances
But I also need to consider what questions were asked of Mr and Mrs C at the inception of 
the policy and at each renewal, to which they had to respond. Theres little information 
available from the initial sale of the policy. But the relevant renewal for the purposes of this 
claim was the March 2018 renewal, so Ive looked for evidence of any questions that might 
have been asked at this point. Ive also looked for any information which might suggest UKI 
provided clear guidance to Mr and Mrs C, to help them provide the correct buildings sum 
insured figure.
From what Ive seen, theres no indication of a clear question being asked of Mr and Mrs C. 
And Id need to be satisfied that UKI asked such a question during the sales process, and 
that Mr and Mrs C carelessly, deliberately or recklessly misrepresented the risk, in order to 
find it fair for UKI to settle the claim proportionately. 
And based on the information available to me, I cant see that a clear question was asked. 
For example, I havent seen evidence that UKI asked Mr and Mrs C to state the value to 
replace all their contents, or how much it would cost them to rebuild the property. Nor have I 
seen evidence that UKI provided guidance on how to calculate such figures.
It follows therefore that, even though Mr and Mrs C were underinsured, and their policy 
contains an average clause specifying what would happen in the event of underinsurance, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs C made a qualifying misrepresentation and so UKI cant fairly reduce 
any claim settlement and hold Mr and Mrs C liable for 38% of their reinstatement costs.
I wont be requiring UKI to cover the cost of the increased mortgage payments, however. 
This is because I cant say for certain that more proactive management of the claim by UKI 
wouldve led to it being resolved sooner. The neighbour responsible for the drain repairs was 
ultimately holding things up and this meant the property was still damaged when it was time 
for Mr and Mrs C to apply to remortgage. From the evidence Mr and Mrs C have submitted, I 
can see the lender wanted confirmation that the work was being carried out or had been 
completed. But even if UKI had tried to progress the claim as we wouldve expected it to, 
theres still no guarantee that the neighbour wouldve repaired the drains in time for the 
mortgage renewal or that work would have started by then.
Ive also considered whether the £150 offered to Mr and Mrs C for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them as a result of UKIs handling of this claim is a fair amount. 
When considering awards for distress and inconvenience this service looks at the impact of 
any errors made by a financial business on a particular customer. This is because, poor 
handling of a claim, for example, could affect different people in different ways.
In this case, I agree with our investigator that there were numerous instances of lengthy and 
unexplained delays which caused frustration to Mr and Mrs C. Looking at the timeline of 
events, and whilst I appreciate that the neighbour responsible for the drain repairs showed 
an absence of engagement in the process, I also consider UKI couldve done more to chase 
the neighbour during some of the longer periods where there was a lack of progress. I also 
consider it relevant that Mr and Mrs C were working very long hours in stressful jobs as 
nurses throughout the pandemic, and the additional stress of how this claim was handled 
and the ongoing delays, as well as being told they wouldnt receive full settlement, wouldve 
caused them significant worry and upset. And I think that as they were often having to take 
time out of their already busy and stressful schedules to chase up the claim, this heightened the inconvenience they experienced overall. So I think our investigators suggested award of 
£600 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs C, UKI must now:
- Reverse its decision that Mr and Mrs C misrepresented the buildings sum insured 
and cover Mr and Mrs Cs claim costs in full. If Mr and Mrs C have made any 
payments towards these costs (not including their policy excess) these should be 
reimbursed, with the addition of 8% simple interest per annum from the date Mr and 
Mrs C made the payment to the date of settlement.
- Pay Mr and Mrs C a total of £600 for distress and inconvenience (including the £150 
already offered).
- If there is future movement at the property and this is thought to be linked to the 
cause of the earlier subsidence, UKI must arrange for an adequate period of 
monitoring to occur as part of any future investigation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require UK Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman