DRN-3586829
The complaint
Mr B complains about what happened after a payment he made to Sainsburys Bank Plc
went astray. He said that this resulted in confusion. Mr B said hed been left with missed
payments on his credit file, and that wasnt fair.
What happened
Sainsburys sent Mr B a statement on 14 October 2020, which said he had to pay £159.17 
by 9 November 2020. The statement issued on 14 November 2020 shows that this direct 
debit was returned unpaid. So Mr B had missed his payment due in early November. And 
that meant the minimum payment due at the start of December 2020 was almost £500.
Mr B contacted Sainsburys about this on 25 November 2020, well before that next minimum 
payment was due. He explained he couldnt cover a payment of this size all at once. 
Sainsburys agreed he could repay the arrears along with his minimum payment over a three 
month period; with the first payment of just under £300 due on 21 December 2020.
On 8 January, Mr B contacted Sainsburys, to say hed made the December payment, as 
agreed. But it hadnt been credited to his account. Sainsburys expressed concern on that 
call that it had given Mr B the wrong account details. It could see the payment had been 
made to its debt collection account, not the account Mr B ought to have paid.
Sainsburys said it would put Mr Bs account into dispute, and investigate the missing
payment.
On 14 January, Sainsburys sent Mr B a statement which showed no payment had been
made for the previous month. This demonstrates that Mr Bs December payment hadnt
been located at that point.
On 15 February, Sainsburys sent Mr B a statement which showed that a payment was
credited onto Mr Bs account in January. This would appear to be the missing payment,
which Sainsburys had located, and credited to his account. This statement also asked for a
minimum payment of £676.04, to be paid by 12 March.
On 19 February, Mr B rang Sainsburys, well before this payment was due. Mr B explained
that he still couldnt cover the full amount due, which was made up of arrears and this
months minimum payment. On this call, Sainsburys agreed that Mr B could have until 18
March to make this payment.
On 15 March, Sainsburys sent Mr B a statement which showed no payment had been made
for the previous statement, and a late fee had been charged. Sainsburys had, however,
already agreed to wait until 18 March for that money. The March statement didnt reflect this
agreement, and it asked for a minimum payment of £901.37, due by 9 April. (This is
presumably a mix of arrears and the March minimum payment.)
On 17 March, Mr B made the agreed payment to cover arrears and the February minimum
payment, of £676.04. Mr B paid a day earlier than hed agreed with Sainsburys.
Mr B said he then tried to pay his March minimum payment. But Sainsburys was asking for
way too much money.
On 8 April, the day before Mr Bs minimum payment was due, Mr B wrote to Sainsburys. He
said he hadnt been able to make his minimum payment for March over the phone. And the
online system was still asking him to pay over £900. Mr B said he was trying to resolve this,
but he couldnt understand why he was being asked to pay such an alarmingly high amount,
when hed already paid almost £700 that month. He said he was worried about falling behind
again after making such efforts to bring his account up to date.
On 14 April, Sainsburys sent Mr B a statement which showed he had made the agreed
payment of £676.04, a day early, on 17 March. This statement shows a minimum payment
for April of £335.28. And Mr Bs credit report suggests the problems with his card and with
payments were then resolved.
But Mr Bs credit report shows missed payments on his Sainsburys credit card for
December, January, February, March and May. (This appears to be running one month
behind Mr Bs actual payments, which is not unusual.)
Mr B said the missed payment for December was his fault. But he didnt think showing the
rest of these monthly payments as missed was fair. Mr B didnt want compensation, he just
wanted these missed payment markers taken off his credit file.
Sainsburys said that it accepted its agent had made a mistake over the phone, and it had
credited Mr Bs account with £100. But it said that because Mr B hadnt paid the total due in
each of these months, regardless of the incorrect details being supplied, it wouldnt make
any amendments to Mr Bs credit file.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think marking Mr Bs
credit file for missed payments during the months of January, February and March 2021 was
fair. He noted that when Mr B spoke to Sainsburys about the payment for December that
went missing, the agent gave the impression that Mr B didnt need to do anything further as
the account would be marked as in dispute.
Our investigator said there was no evidence Mr B was contacted with an update once the
money was found and applied to the account on 25 January 2021. He would have expected
Sainsburys to do that. And then Sainsburys agreed an arrangement for Mr B to defer a
payment. Although this mightve been informal, it was still an agreement.
Our investigator thought it would be fair for Sainsburys to mark Mr Bs credit file as in an
arrangement to pay for December, January, February, and March 2021. He also said late
payment fees charged in March and April should be refunded.
Mr B said he would agree with this. But Sainsburys didnt agree. At first, it said it would
remove the late payment marker for February, but not January or March. And it said missed
payments for November and December 2020 were correctly recorded. It said these missed
payments showed Mr B was in some financial difficulty, which should be on his credit file.
Sainsburys said Mr B owed £617.70 by 8 January 2021, so even if the payment for
December hadnt gone astray, a missed payment would be on his credit file. Sainsburys
said it would remove the late payment marker for February, it thought it was understandable
Mr B did not make a payment in February 2021 as he was expecting an update.
Sainsburys said Mr B paid late in March, and even when a formal payment plan is in place,missed payments are still recorded even if the customer is making the payments agreed.
And Sainsburys said that our investigator hadnt suggested amendments after this.
But then Sainsburys changed its mind. It wouldnt remove the February late payment marker
after all. It thought all these missed payment markers were correctly recorded. And it didnt
think it should remove a record of Mr Bs financial difficulty from his credit file as this would
give a false impression to other lenders about how he managed the account.
Sainsburys also didnt agree that it should refund fees for March and April 2021. It felt that
by then it had allocated the payment from December to the account and made clear what
payments were required. It said Mr B hadnt paid in January and February so it would have
expected him to have the money to pay the arrears.
Our investigator still thought the payments for each month should've been recorded as an
arrangement to pay rather than stating an arrears number. Reporting a level of arrears for
each month wasnt a true reflection of how the account has been run. Other lenders would
think Mr B hadn't done anything to try to address the arrears - when he had.
Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
There are five missed payment markers on Mr Bs credit file. Four of these show for 
December 2020 to March 2021, they are likely to refer to payments due early in the 
previous month. Theres then one for May, but again likely to refer to a payment due in 
early April.
We know Mr B didnt make the payment requested on his October statement. Theres a 
returned direct debit on his November statement. Mr Bs account was one month in 
arrears then. Its fair for this single missed payment marker to show on Mr Bs credit file.
In November, Mr B reached an agreement with Sainsburys to pay off his arrears over 
three months. Sainsburys has insisted that from this point on, Mr Bs account would 
always have shown as in arrears, even if all three payments were made and credited to 
his account.
Sainsburys hasnt told us how many months of arrears it has recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file, or how many months it thinks would have been recorded, if things had gone to plan. 
Ive not currently requested additional evidence on this point, because Ive also not been 
able to see that Sainsburys had explained to Mr B the full impact of a payment plan on 
his credit file.
When someone enters into an agreement to make up missed payments, I'd expect 
Sainsburys to explain to the customer what the impact of this will be on their credit file, 
for the lifetime of that agreement. So if reaching an agreement to pay later will mean 
another payment will be recorded as missed, Id expect Sainsburys to make this clear to 
Mr B.
We dont currently have direct evidence on what was said on the call of 25 November 
2020, when this payment arrangement was set up. Sainsburys may wish to supply this 
now, and if it does so, that may change my view on this point.But the evidence we do have now of a call recording where a payment agreement was 
set up (on 9 February) does include what appears to be a standard script for 
arrangements. So I think its reasonable to assume that the same thing was said on the 
25 November call.
That script doesnt include an explanation of the future impact on Mr Bs credit file. 
Without direct evidence on this point, my current view is that it isnt likely Mr B was 
warned about future missed payment markers when he made the November agreement 
either. And that in turn means it wouldnt be reasonable for Sainsburys to continue to 
place late payment markers on Mr Bs file, if he had paid in line with the agreement set 
up in November.
This finding is relevant for Decembers payment, where Mr B did pay, but the payment 
went astray, due to what both sides seem to accept was wrong information given by 
Sainsburys. I dont think a late payment should be recorded for that month (the second 
missed payment of the sequence on Mr Bs credit file), or any late fees charged. I see 
this fee was refunded.
Mr B then contacted Sainsburys on 8 January. Like our investigator, I think that its 
important to note that Sainsburys took the decision to place Mr Bs account in dispute, 
and also that it gave him no indication of how Mr B could make any future payment. I 
think that means he had no reasonable expectation that Sainsburys was expecting him 
to pay, or that it might record negative information if he failed to do so.
And again, like our investigator, I think Sainsburys should have got back in touch with 
Mr B once his payment had been found and credited to his account. It could then have 
supported him to get his account back on track, as had been envisaged in late 
November. But Sainsburys didnt do that. Instead, it sent him a statement on 15 
February, which showed that his payment must have been found and credited to his 
account. The same statement asked for a minimum payment of £676.04, to be paid by 
12 March.
On 19 February, Sainsburys agreed Mr B could have until 18 March to make this 
payment. Again, if this would continue to affect Mr Bs credit file, I would have expected 
Sainsburys to warn Mr B of this, so he could make an informed decision. But what it 
said was an arrears balance may have impacted your credit file but we dont know how 
this will look to other lenders. Thats a warning of what may already have happened, 
not whats going to happen as a result of the agreement being made. I dont think that 
allowed Mr B to make an informed decision. So I dont think it was reasonable for 
Sainsburys to record any arrears or missed payment while Mr B was sticking to this 
agreement, which we know he did.
Two other things on that call are, I think, important. The first is Mr B makes clear he isnt 
in wider financial difficulties. He is up to date with all other payments. The problem is 
just with Sainsburys. I think this is important, because Sainsburys says removing late 
payment markers will hide Mr Bs true financial position from other lenders. But I dont 
think theres any evidence he was in wider financial difficulties, and that this was any 
more than one misdirected payment spiralling out of control.
The second thing is that Sainsburys tells Mr B that he wont face any fees for being in 
an arrangement. The agent said maintaining your payment arrangement will prevent 
charges and fees. But we know Mr B was then charged fees on his March and April 
statements. Mr B was in an arrangement at the time the March fee was charged.Mr B didnt pay anything towards the amount requested on his February statement, 
because thats what hed agreed with Sainsburys. So his March statement showed no 
payment had been made for the previous statement. The March statement asked for a 
minimum payment of £901.37, due by 9 April. On 17 March, after this statement was 
printed, Mr B made the agreed payment to cover arrears and the February minimum 
payment, of £676.04.
Ive read the message Mr B sent to Sainsburys on 8 April. Mr B said hed tried to pay 
his monthly minimum. He was still being asked for over £900. Mr B does appear to me 
to have tried to make a minimum payment, but he hadnt been able to make a payment 
which had been reduced appropriately to take account of the large sum hed already 
paid that month.
Overall, I think Mr B has made reasonable efforts to pay what he owes Sainsburys. And 
I think Sainsburys has, unfortunately, missed opportunities to assist Mr B appropriately. 
In particular, it ought to have made clear what the consequences of any payment 
agreements would be, and it ought to have contacted Mr B to set his account back on 
track once his missing payment was found. I think its largely because Sainsburys 
doesnt seem to have done these things, that Mr B now has a number of missed 
payment markers on his credit file. And so I think that all but the first of these markers 
(relating to the November returned direct debit) should be removed. I also think 
Sainsburys should refund the late and overlimit fees charged on Mr Bs March and April 
statements.
I must stress that this decision is provisional, and with the provision of further evidence 
by either side, it may change.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B agreed with my provisional decision. He said he had recently asked Sainsburys to 
close his account, and wanted to know if that might cause any issues. 
I would not expect the closure of Mr Bs card account to make any difference in this case. 
Sainsburys will still be bound by my decision if Mr B accepts it. If Mr Bs account is closed, 
then Sainsburys can still amend his credit file, and it can pay any refund to him directly 
instead of crediting it back to his account. 
Sainsburys replied to say it wanted to propose something different. It did accept that some 
of Mr Bs credit file should be amended. But it didnt think it was fair to other lenders to 
remove all record of his financial difficulty (other than the arrears for November). 
Sainsburys said that credit files record arrears on accounts, so when a customer is one 
month in arrears, it is recorded as 1. And Sainsburys said that if the plan had run as 
intended, Mr B would have had 1 recorded on his credit file from November to February. 
But, because payments werent received, the arrears were showing as increasing, during 
this period. 
Sainsburys said November was showing as 1 Month in arrears, which it thought all sides 
understood to be correct.Then Sainsburys said December was showing as 2 months in arrears. It thought this should 
be reduced to 1, as this is how it would show if the payment Mr B made hadnt been lost.
And Sainsburys said January was showing as 2 months in arrears. The payment from 
December had been allocated by this point (stopping the arrears from increasing to 3). But 
Sainsburys said if another payment had been received that month, it would have been 1.
Sainsburys said February was currently showing at 3, but if the plan had run as intended, it 
would have shown as 0.
So Sainsburys proposed to make those amendments to Mr Bs credit file. It said that after 
February, no further change was needed, March was 0. And the file should run as 0 for the 
remainder of the loan term as it was never in arrears again before Mr B cleared the balance.
Sainsburys said it didnt want to be accused of misleading other lenders. It thought this 
resolution would fairly represent Mr Bs situation during this period.
Sainsburys appreciated I felt it should have told Mr B that a plan would result in arrears 
being recorded on his credit file. It said this was detailed in the account terms and 
conditions, and it would usually remind customers of this when setting up a plan. But it said 
the call where the plan was first set up, on 25 November 2020, ended abruptly and it could 
not reach Mr B when it tried to call back. It sent notes from the time of this call, although not 
the call recording itself. 
Sainsburys said most of the fees charged during the relevant period had already been 
refunded, but it would make sure any which were missed were also refunded.
In my provisional decision above, I set out my view that Mr B ought to have been told about 
the impact a payment plan would have on his credit file, at the point where he agreed to it. I 
said we didnt have direct evidence of the call when Mr B first set up a plan, on 25 November 
2020. Whilst we still have no direct evidence on this, Sainsburys has supplied notes which 
suggest that this call dropped, and it did try to get back in touch with Mr B, without success. 
But I also said we do have another call recording, from 9 February. That seemed to me to 
include a standard script for payment arrangements. Whilst we now know that this wasnt 
said to Mr B in November, I still think its reasonable to assume that this is what Sainsburys 
would have said to him at the time. And I didnt think that script allowed Mr B to make an 
informed decision to enter into a payment plan, for the reasons I have set out in my 
provisional decision above. 
So even if Sainsburys had managed to get back in touch with Mr B in November 2020, it still 
doesnt seem likely that it would have provided him with the information he needed to decide 
whether to enter into a payment plan. 
I dont know what options Mr B may have pursued, instead of a payment plan. But he has 
told us, and Sainsburys, that he wasnt in any wider financial difficulties. And he also said he 
had some savings he could access. So, although Sainsburys has assumed that Mr B would 
still have entered into a payment plan, I dont think I can assume that Mr B would have done 
so if he had been told about its impact. 
So I dont think whats gone wrong here happened just because the call dropped on 25 
November 2020. I still think that Sainsburys should amend Mr Bs credit file, starting from 
the marker relevant to December 2020. I noted a series of further problems after this. In brief, Sainsburys put Mr Bs account in 
dispute when his December payment went astray. It told him he had the wrong account 
details, but it didnt indicate how, or indeed, if, he should make another payment. It didnt 
contact Mr B when it had finally found and allocated his December payment. It didnt provide 
a warning about the future impact on his credit file when he spoke to it in mid-February to set 
up a fresh payment plan. And it then asked for over £900 as a minimum payment at the start 
of April, without making any allowance for the fact that Mr B had already paid almost £700 of 
this sum. 
Sainsburys is concerned that it would be misleading other lenders if it removed a record of 
missed payments from Mr Bs credit file. I understand this concern, but I think that in this 
particular case, the contribution that Sainsburys has made to the position in which Mr B has 
found himself, is such that the amendment I proposed is required to provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. So I wont adopt the amended version that 
Sainsburys has suggested.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc must amend Mr Bs credit file to remove any 
negative markers for the time between November 2020 and May 2021 (except the single 
missed payment marker relating to Mr Bs November 2020 returned direct debit). And it must 
refund the late and overlimit fees charged on Mr Bs March and April statements.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman