DRN-3140266
The complaint
Mr G complains about the valuation of his buy to let property The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
(TMW) relied on when he applied for a new fixed interest rate product in 2021. He says the 
valuation was too low which meant he fell outside TMWs loan to value ratio (LTV) criteria for 
the low fixed interest rate product he applied for. Instead he had to pay a much higher rate 
and was financially disadvantaged as a result.
What happened
In around December 2015 Mr G took an interest only buy to let mortgage of around 
£100,000 over a term of 21 years with TMW. The property over which TMW secured their 
legal charge was valued by an independent valuer at the time. 
In 2021 Mr G applied for a fixed interest rate product. TMW used an automated system - or 
automated valuation model (AVM) - to get an up to date valuation for the property. From 
there, TMW worked out the ratio of Mr Gs loan to the value of the property (LTV). The value 
attributed to Mr Gs property was lower than the 2015 valuation and the LTV was too high for 
Mr G to be able to access the interest rate product he wanted. Mr G was unhappy he would 
have to pay a much higher interest rate to TMW going forward, so he complained.
Mr G was unhappy TMW said the value of his property had gone down significantly since the 
independent valuation carried out six years before. He said there was evidence that prices in 
the area had gone up by around 29%. And another similar property he owned in the same 
street had increased in value based on the AVM. Mr G felt TMW had manipulated the LTV 
on the property he was complaining about so he couldnt get the fixed rate product.
TMW said Mr G could pay for an independent valuation to be carried out. But he thought 
TMW should pay for that and didnt take up their offer. He brought his complaint to this 
service. To put things right Mr G wanted TMW to give him the interest rate he applied for, 
backdate the rate to the date of his application and compensate him for the inconvenience 
hed been caused. Mr G said he was forced to sell the property quickly because of the 
interest he was having to pay. And he redeemed the TMW mortgage in around August 2021. 
Our investigator felt TMW had treated Mr G fairly and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr G didnt 
agree. He felt the evidence hed provided showed TMW were manipulating property 
valuations and he said he wanted to protect other customers from that. Since Mr G didnt 
accept our investigators view, his complaints been passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs raised his concerns about how TMW calculate property valuations with 
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Hes done the right thing as this 
service is only able to consider the individual circumstances of his complaint  not the wider 
implications of anything Mr G thinks TMW is doing that may affect other customers. So, my 
decision addresses only what happened in relation to Mr Gs application for a fixed interest 
rate product.
Its standard practice for lenders to offer different interest rate products depending on the 
LTV of a property. And its common for lenders to revalue a property before offering a new 
interest rate product in order to work out the LTV. To revalue a property, lenders often use 
statistical data to determine a propertys value. Its reasonable for them to do so and can 
save the customer the cost of paying for a physical valuation to take place. TMWs explained 
the AVM uses mathematical modelling to estimate the value of the properties using 
comparable sales in the area. Thats in line with industry practice. So, I dont think it was 
wrong for TMW to use the AVM to come to a view about the value of Mr Gs property in this 
case.
TMW considered information Mr G gave them about house price increases in the area. They 
told Mr G he could make a capital payment to reduce his borrowing and the LTV so he was 
eligible for the rate he wanted. They gave him the option of paying for a physical valuation to 
take place and said they would reconsider his application based on such a valuation. And 
TMW explained their appeal process if Mr G was then unhappy with the valuation. 
I understand Mr G feels TMW should have met the cost of a physical valuation. But I think it 
was reasonable for TMW to ask Mr G to pay since they had another method of obtaining 
property valuations that I think was fair in the circumstances. And I think TMW treated Mr G 
fairly and reasonably in saying theyd look again at his application in light of a physical 
valuation if hed gone ahead with one. Since the valuation didnt go ahead, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for TMW to refuse to offer Mr G the new rate.
I acknowledge Mr Gs strength of feeling the valuation of his property was too low. I dont 
accept that the evidence hes provided about general increases in house prices in the area 
and the valuation of his other property show either that TMW got the value of the property 
wrong or that they have manipulated the value of the property. Property values can vary 
widely for many different reasons. And without expert evidence from a qualified chartered 
surveyor, its not possible to know why the value of the property thats the subject of this 
complaint was lower than that of others in the area.
Bearing everything in mind, I think TMW treated Mr G fairly and reasonably. Whilst I 
understand it will be disappointing for him, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman