DRN-3866690
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd handled a claim he made 
following a water leak.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr F had an escape of water in his downstairs cloakroom. The leak was fixed a 
couple of days later, but water had seeped into the walls and under the floor tiles and 
carpeting. Mr F made a claim against his home insurance policy with Accredited. After the 
claim was assessed and further checks carried out, the claim was accepted in October 2021. 
After Mr F made known his preference for materials in January 2022, it was agreed for the 
work to start in mid-February 2022. 
The work started on schedule and Mr Fs toilet and sink were removed, but on lifting the floor 
tiles it was found that Mr Fs property needed to be dried out. This left Mr F without a usable 
downstairs utility which he needed as he was disabled. Initially the business Accredited 
asked to do the drying out work had previously told Mr F his property didnt need to be dried 
out.  Mr F wasnt happy with them taking on the work as hed lost faith in them. Accredited 
arranged for another business to dry out the property. 
During the drying period Mr F was left without his downstairs toilet and sink as these werent 
put back into situ. Accredited said they would provide him with alternative accommodation or 
a bathroom pod for his use. Mr F said the bathroom pod was no more than a portacabin on 
his driveway which was unacceptable. And the alternative accommodation would have 
meant him spending several weeks in one room. Mr F said neither offer was suitable, so he 
tried to manage at home.
Moisture readings confirmed Mr Fs property was dry by mid March 2022. And arrangements 
were made for the plastering to be done with Mr Fs vanity items being restored by the end 
of March 2022. The work started to repair the damage to Mr Fs property. Mr F complained 
to Accredited about: 
Lack of communication
Unreasonable delays
Avoidable mistakes
Poor workmanship/errors in the finished work and 
The distress and inconvenience caused during the works
Accredited said that Mr F had previously complained to them and that a final response had 
been sent to him in November 2021. So, they would only consider the complaint points not 
covered by the previous complaint. Accredited accepted that the drying of Mr Fs property 
should have been done following the first inspection. They apologised for this and offered  
Mr F £150 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him.
Mr F wasnt happy with Accrediteds response. He said they should pay him £2,500 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that had been caused. He referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator said that there had been avoidable delays in handling Mr Fs claim. And this 
had caused him distress and inconvenience. She said Accrediteds offer of £150 was too low 
and asked Accredited to compensate Mr F by paying him £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Accrediteds records that Mr F complained to them about their handling of his 
claim in October 2021 and they sent a final response letter to him at the end of November 
2021. After a final response letter has been sent there is a period of six months from the 
date of the final response letter to bring the complaint to us to consider. So, Mr F would have 
had until the end of May 2022 to bring this complaint to us. As he didnt, I can only look at 
the new complaint points he asked Accredited to consider in April 2022, which after their 
final response letter he brought to us in July 2022.
Its not in dispute that some things went wrong with the handling of Mr Fs claim. What 
remains in dispute is the level of compensation Mr F should get for the distress and 
inconvenience that has been caused.
Unfortunately for policyholders this sort of escape of water claim usually does take several
months because of the time needed to dry, assess and carry out repairs. When bathroom
fittings have to be removed and floors lifted in a property, theres always going to be a lot of 
disruption. But I think whats added to what already is a distressing time here is that Mr F 
after having waited seven months from the date of the water leak for the start date of the 
work to commence, had to see the work stopped as his property hadnt been dried out. And 
this added at least a further month onto the schedule of work. Accredited has accepted that 
this should have been identified sooner.
It would have also been distressing for Mr F that this was only found after his sink and toilet 
had been removed. Which meant he was left without the use of the downstairs facilities while 
the property was dried out. I can see that Accredited tried to make the situation better by 
offering alternative accommodation or the option of a mobile toilet facility. But neither of 
these options were acceptable to Mr F and he continued to stay at his home. But without the 
use of the downstairs bathroom, given Mr F is disabled this would have been inconvenient 
and distressing to deal with. But while Mr Fs living conditions were very inconvenient, he did 
still have access to bathroom facilities.
From Accrediteds records I can see that Mr Fs partner spoke to Accredited several times to 
check on the status of the claim and the schedule for the work to be done. I can see that 
Accredited explained that there was a demand on their contractors following a storm surge, 
but I can also see they asked for Mr Fs claim to be treated as a priority given the delay and 
taking into account Mr F being disabled, 
It was planned that the sink and toilet would be refitted after the downstairs was plastered 
towards the end of March 2022. But a plumber was sent to reinstall the items before the 
plastering work had been done. And so, a further visit had to be arranged. Records show that Accredited acted promptly to reassure Mr Fs partner, and a schedule of work and the 
days the plasterer and plumber would attend was provided. I can also see that when a new 
leak was found a plumber was promptly sent.
Putting things right
I know Mr F will be disappointed by my decision as he thinks £2,500 is more reflective of the 
distress and inconvenience thats been caused. But its not our role to punish a business. I 
can understand Mr F being upset that this process took longer than it needed to. I also think  
Mr F shouldnt have needed to contact Accredited to move his claim along or to seek 
reassurance about what was happening. But overall, considering the effect that the delay 
and poor communication had on Mr F, I think compensation of £500 is appropriate for the 
poor service he received from Accredited.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to pay Mr F £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman