DRN-3707287
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy Coconut Platform Ltd hasnt reimbursed him for a payment he says he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr N maintains that he didnt authorise the payment out of his account, and this was all 
done by the scammer. However Coconut has confirmed that payments can only be 
actioned from the Coconut app, so this couldnt have been done by the scammer on his 
laptop. And as Mr N has an iPhone, were aware that remote access software only 
allows third parties to see whats being done on the accessed phone, not actually carry 
out actions themselves. Mr N hasnt suggested his iPhone has been modified to act 
outside the manufacturers intended usage to circumvent this.
Weve seen evidence this transaction was carried out using Mr Ns IP address and that 
his Coconut app had been logged into. So it follows the only way the transaction couldve 
been made is by Mr N himself, in the app. I do note that when he first reported the scam 
to Coconut he said (my emphasis) When I asked to have access to the account Where I 
transferred my funds they cut off and disappeared. But Mr N has since clarified that he 
didnt make any transactions, and this was all done by the third party without his 
knowledge or consent. 
I accept Mr N feels very strongly about this case, but he hasnt been able to provide any 
plausible explanation for how a third party was able to access his banking and send this 
payment. Hes told us he didnt grant them access to his banking or share any log in 
details. But we know the transaction was sent from his iPhone in his Coconut app.
Even if the scammer couldve controlled Mr Ns iPhone, which I cant see how they 
could, the most they couldve done was opened up the banking app  theyd then be 
presented with the usual screen to log in and from what hes told us, they didnt have 
these details. So I cant see a way the scammer carried out this transaction.
Considering all this, I cant say Coconut was wrong to conclude that Mr N authorised this 
payment himself. I accept he was the victim of a scam, but the evidence held suggests it 
was most likely him that sent the funds. And he hasnt been able to explain how a third 
party couldve done this. Mr N has mentioned getting refunds from two other companies 
that were involved in this same scam. But they were both banks, not electronic money 
institutions (EMI). And my role is to consider this case on its own merits. 
As I consider the disputed payment was authorised, Ive then thought about whether 
Coconut shouldve contacted Mr N about the payment before processing it.
Ive reviewed Mr Ns statements prior to this payment leaving his account and I dont 
agree the scam payment warranted an intervention by Coconut. In the six months before 
this payment was sent, Mr N sends one off payments of £7,000 and £6,277.26. And he 
has a regular payment of £2,190 leaving his account every month. So I cant agree a 
single payment of £3,843.16 was so out of character Coconut shouldve blocked it and 
contacted Mr N about it. 
I also say this because his highest account balance in the prior six months was 
£15,809.41, but in early February 2022 the balance was down to £669.59. Mr N has said 
that this transaction emptying his account also shouldve been a concern for Coconut, 
but considering his spending pattern, I dont agree. Hed already been on the verge of 
emptying this account and as above, was making payments of higher values in the run 
up to this transaction.
Coconut contacted the EMI who received the funds from Mr N to see if it could recall 
anything, but they confirmed the account had been emptied. This isnt unusual. Mr N has 
said that if hed been able to reach Coconut the night of the scam this might not have 
been the case. But in my experience scammers act very quickly when it comes to 
payments like this, so I think its most likely this wouldnt have made a difference. 
Coconut contacted the receiving EMI the next day and the funds were already gone.
I also cant say it wouldve changed the outcome here because, even if Coconut had 
spoken to Mr N that evening and contacted the receiving EMI, theres no guarantee they 
also wouldve been working that night/acted immediately. And there are no other 
recovery options for Mr N in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman