DRN-4340813
The complaint
Mr R complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account, didnt credit his 
points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. Hed like his benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact and time taken to resolve the issue. Mr R is also unhappy about 
the way Creation spoke to him during a phone call.
What happened
Mr R had a rewards club premium credt card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
In late 2021, Creation sent Mr R a letter informing him that his credit card accout would be 
closed in December 2021. And they wouldnt be crediting him the points for the last 
statement period, his free night stay voucher or a refund of the unused annual fee.
Mr R complained to Creation. He said that when he called Creation, the adsivor sugested he 
had misused his account, which he found insulting and a slight to his character. He said he 
hadnt breached the terms of his account and had always used the account properly.
Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They said they acted fairly in closing Mr Rs account, 
not refunding the annual fee, crediting the points or the hotel voucher. Mr R wasnt happy 
with Creations response and brought his compaint to our service. 
After Mr R brought his complaint to our service Creation made an offer to resolve Mr Rs 
complaint. They offered Mr R a refund of his annual fee, the points not credited and the free 
night stay voucher.
 
Mr R didnt accept the offer. He complained that Creation havent offered compensation for 
the time, hassle and inconvenience caused and having to raise a complaint with our service. 
Mr R also said he wasnt able to use his voucher when he booked hotels in 2022. So he lost 
out as he had to use cash instead to pay for his accomodation. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint. He asked Creation for a recording of 
the phone conversation Mr R had with Creation about how he was using his card. But it 
wasnt able to provide this. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, the investigator 
thought Creation needed to do more. The investigator said that as well as offering to refund 
the annual fee, points and free night stay voucher, Creation should pay Mr R £50 
compensation for the upset caused by Creations comments about how Mr R was misusing 
his account. 
Creation accepted the investigators recommendations. Mr R disagreed. He said Creation 
hadnt done enough to put things right and should compensate him for not being able to use 
his free night stay voucher when he  booked hotels in 2022. He also wants compensation for 
the inconvenience of him having to spend time and effort chasing Creation and following up 
his complaint. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide and I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said the following;
Account closure
Creation can only close accounts in certain cirucumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Rs account. I have reviewed the terms and they explain that Creation can close an 
account for any reason by giving 60 days notice. I appreciate this is disappointing for Mr R 
however, Creation have provided Mr R with the full notice period, so I cant say Creation 
have acted unfairly when it closed Mr Rs account.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Rs points, award him the free night stay voucher and 
refund Mr Rs £99 account fee. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have deprived Mr R of 
access to the points, voucher and refund when initially closing the account. But Im pleased 
to see that they have now agreed to rectify this. I understand that Creation has already 
reimbursed Mr R his points, voucher, and annual account fee. 
Mr R says that Creation havent done enough to put things right. In particular, hes said that 
although Creation has now provided him with his hotel voucher, its has taken a long time for 
this to happen. So he wasnt able to use his free night voucher when booking hotels between 
March and May 2022. Mr R has provided evidence to this service that he would have used 
his voucher on trips, had it been available to him. So Im satisfied that he lost out on the 
opportunity of using his voucher and was inconvenienced. Taking this into account, Im 
minded that Creation should pay Mr R compensation. Im satisfied that £50 compensation is 
a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr R was caused 
by not being able to use his free night voucher. 
I appreciate Mr R will likely be frustrated by the delay in the reward points being added to his 
account, but I think by adding them Creation have returned him to the position he would 
have been in otherwise. So, Im satisfied they dont need to do anything further than that to 
resolve this aspect of Mr Rs complaint.
I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset 
caused to the consumer by something a financial business did wrong. We are not here to 
punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a 
business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. 
Finally, Mr R says he was upset by comments made by Creation during a phone call. Hes 
explained that comments made by the advisor implied hed been misusing his account which 
he took as a slight on his character. Unfortunately, a recording of this call has not been 
provided by Creation. In the absence of any other evidence to contradict what Mr R has said, 
like the investigator, I think it is fair to rely on Mr Rs comments. The investigator thought that 
Creation should pay Mr R £50 compensation for the upset he was caused. Creation has 
accepted this recommendation. I think this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
aspect of Mr Rs complaint so I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
Putting things right
To put things right,  Ill be directing Creation to pay Mr R a total of £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset of not being able to use his free night voucher and having his character 
questioned during a phone call with Creation about how he was using his account. Creation accepted my provisional decision. It confirmed that Mr R was eligible for a free 
night voucher. And that it was happy to issue this to Mr R along with his outstanding hotel 
points if Mr R agreed. 
Mr R responded and said it hadnt yet received his hotel voucher or points. And was happy 
to accept both along with the compensation recommended in the provisional decision to 
resolve his complaint. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Creation and Mr R for their responses and for clarifying that Mr R is still awaiting 
to receive his hotel voucher and points. Based on the information Id previously reviewed it 
appeared that Mr R had already received these, which wasnt correct.
I note that Creation has confirmed Mr R is eligible for a hotel voucher and agreed to provide 
this to him together with his outstanding points and the compensation recommended in my 
provisional decision. So that Mr R can enforce it should he need to do so, I will make an 
award in this regard.
Having reviewed all the evidence, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I 
remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Creation Financial 
Services Limited should:
Pay Mr R a total of £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not being 
able to use his free night voucher and comments made during a phone call about 
how Mr R was using his account.
Credit Mr Rs IHG account with his outstanding award club points
Provide Mr R with his hotel voucher
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman