DRN-3237260
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have a multi-car policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited. They 
complain that it provided poor service to them after they reported two incidents to it.
What happened
On 3 April 2021 Mrs Ds car was hit by another car after she joined a main road from a side 
road. Mr and Mrs D were unhappy that Admiral said Mrs D was at fault. They were told in 
error that her policy excess was payable, when in fact she was exempt from paying it due to 
Admirals key worker scheme. They disagreed with a rise in the price for the policys renewal 
- despite Mrs Ds protected no claims discount (NCD)  which they were told would reduce 
by a year. And they werent happy with the way their complaint was handled. 
In addition, Mr D said when he told Admiral about a malicious attack on his car on 3 April 
2021, it couldnt say that the renewal premium wouldnt rise again  and the extra premium 
sums taken were charged without his consent. Mr and Mrs D also said that Admiral refused 
to discuss repairing their cars and that its overall service and communication was poor.
Admiral defended its position on liability. It said the increases in the renewal premium were 
due to the incidents that occurred between the date it was set and the end of the policy year, 
regardless of the NCD  which had not been reduced. It said the repairs werent done 
because Mr and Mrs D hadnt claimed on the policy and had said they were unsure about 
doing so. It said notice of the increases in the premium were issued, and the option of 
cancelling the policy instead was given. Admiral accepted that it made an error about the key 
worker scheme and agreed that Mr and Mrs D had spent a lot of time calling it. It also 
accepted that there had been some conflicting communication and that its level of service 
had fallen short of the expected standard. But it thought its contact about Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint was acceptable, as was a letter it had sent them regarding the late notification of 
an incident. Admiral apologised and paid Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation. 
As they remained unhappy, Mr and Mrs D complained to this service. One of our 
investigators said Admiral should increase the compensation by £100 and contact Mr and 
Mrs D about repairing their cars. Admiral agreed to the proposals. The investigator also said 
the protected NCD shouldnt have been affected after the accident and that if there had been 
an error, the rise in premium should be refunded. Admiral confirmed that the protected NCD 
remained unchanged  and said a premium may rise anyway due to an incident, as here. 
 
Later on, Mr D said Admiral had not yet contacted him about repairs, and meanwhile hed 
carried out some work on Mrs Ds car, which was about to be part-exchanged. He said he 
wasnt happy to agree to just a further £100 compensation, due to the work hed done. The 
investigator said Mr D would have to raise the new issue with Admiral. Mr D confirmed at 
that point that he wasnt happy with the investigators view, which initially it seemed he was. 
So the complaint was passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liability
I think Admiral has explained why it had no option but to find Mrs D at fault for the incident 
on 3 April 2021. Although the driver on the main road may have been travelling too fast, 
neither she nor Admiral can prove that was the case. And initially Mrs D said she saw the 
other car when she had only partially emerged from the minor road. A driver entering a main 
road has a greater burden of care than one who already has right of way. In these 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to conclude that it wouldnt be able to 
argue successfully that the other driver was to blame for the accident.
Increase in premium
The renewal premium was based on the facts that applied at the time it was calculated. I 
think its reasonable (and standard industry practice) that any incident or change that 
happens after a premium is set, but before the end of a policy year, can affect the initial 
calculation. Admiral has shown that it informed Mr and Mrs D of the increases in the 
premium  and the notifications it sent pointed out that they had the right to cancel the 
policy. So I dont think its fair to say that Admiral took the extra sums without Mr and Mrs Ds 
permission. Had they decided to cancel the policy, any incidents or changes theyd reported 
would have been taken into account by other insurers, so they may have been no better off. 
NCD
   
The NCD provides a discount when a premium is calculated, but it doesnt stop a premium 
rising when an incident is reported. Normally, an NCD would reduce following a claim, but 
the policy provides that Mr and Mrs Ds protected NCD allows two claims to be made on the 
policy before the NCD is reduced. Admiral has confirmed that Mrs Ds NCD remains at 15 
years and Mr Ds NCD remains at 21 years. I think there was some confusion on this issue, 
as Mr and Mrs D were advised at one point that Mrs Ds NCD had reduced to 14 years. I can 
see why they were upset by that, but I think Admiral has shown that their NCDs are correct.
 
Repairs
Admirals file notes show that Mr and Mrs D were undecided about whether to have repairs 
carried out on either of their cars. I havent seen anything on the file that shows they told 
Admiral they wanted repairs done before they made a complaint. Admiral initially sent them 
a letter stating that the claim had been finalised, which I think caused some confusion to Mr 
and Mrs D - but it explained in its response to their complaint that, as it had provided a 
claims reference number, a claim could be reopened at any time. Mr D said Admiral wouldnt 
discuss the repairs with him, but I havent seen anything to show thats the case. I think 
Admiral left it open for Mr and Mrs D to decide whether they wanted any repairs to be done, 
and to let it know if they did, which I think was reasonable. 
Poor service
Admiral accepted that its service had fallen below the expected standard in some respects, 
including miscommunication, errors about the key worker scheme and the time Mr and Mrs 
D had to spend on calls. I think its contact with them about their complaint was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs D werent happy about the letter Admiral issued about an accident, without saying which one it was. Admiral says there was only one accident, and that in an email 
issued shortly afterwards, that was clarified. Although I think the letter should have been 
clearer in the first place, I think Admiral put the matter right within a reasonable time. 
Taking everything into account, although I think Admiral acted reasonably in relation to the 
major issues in this complaint, I dont think the £100 it offered for its poor service was 
adequate. In my opinion, a further £100 for distress and convenience would better reflect the 
confusion caused to Mr and Mrs D at times, plus the general inconvenience they faced.        
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D £200 in total for distress and inconvenience (the original £100 it 
has paid, plus the further £100 it has agreed to pay) if it hasnt already done so. 
In addition, if Admiral hasnt yet contacted Mr and Mrs D about repairs, as it agreed to do, I 
require it to do so within 14 days of the date of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman