DRN-2245152
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc provided an incorrect address when it 
sold a credit card debt to a third party, which Ill call D.
What happened
Mr C had held a credit card account with NatWest for many years. He fell into difficulties with 
the payments and NatWest engaged debt collection agents, W, to collect the debt on its 
behalf. 
In or about May 2017 Mr C and W agreed a repayment plan. W wrote to Mr C at his correct 
address to confirm that. 
In or about August 2017 NatWest sold the debt to D. It wrote to Mr C to tell him what had 
happened, but used a previous address at which Mr C says he has not lived since 2011. 
Mr C says that NatWest provided D with the incorrect address. That address is now 
occupied by friends of his. 
Mr C complained to NatWest and to D. NatWest said that it held the correct address for Mr C 
and that it had been updated in May 2017. It apologised if it had provided an incorrect 
address but noted that its details were correct at the time. It said it was possible that W had 
passed on incorrect information.     
Mr C referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator was not minded to uphold the complaint. Mr C didnt accept 
those findings and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is little doubt in my view that any information D might have been given about Mr C  
including his address  was provided by the bank or by W. Since W was acting as the banks 
agent until the debt was sold, that means that NatWest was responsible. D might have used 
tracing agents or a similar service to find Mr C. Given, however, that W had been 
successfully communicating with him, thats very unlikely. There was simply no need for D to 
use any address other than that provided by the bank or W. 
The bank says that it updated Mr Cs address in May 2017  to his current address. That 
should not have been necessary, however, since Mr Cs address had not changed. NatWest 
and W had been using the correct address for many years. It seems likely therefore that the 
bank changed the address in error and then corrected its mistake. That is consistent with its 
statement that it would not have changed the address without Mr Cs instructions to do so. It 
might also explain how it was that, shortly afterwards, D was given an incorrect address.
For these reasons I believe that NatWest or W on its behalf made an error here. As a result, 
D was provided with an old address and wrote to Mr C at that address. 
Mr C has not suggested that he suffered any actual loss as a result. I can make an award in 
recognition of any material distress or inconvenience Mr C has suffered, but Im not 
persuaded that I should do so here. He has not for example said that the error has changed 
the way he would have dealt with the outstanding debt; nor is there any evidence about what 
happened to the letters that were sent to the wrong address. I note as well that D offered Mr 
C £50 by way of compensation.    
My final decision
My final decision is that, whilst I believe that National Westminster Bank Plc made an error in 
this case, I do not require it to do anything more to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my 
decision before 29 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman