DRN-4349025
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has not refunded him after he became the 
victim of a romance scam. 
Mr H is represented by his daughter - Mrs R.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In June 2021, Mr H met someone - I will refer to as C - on a dating site. The conversation 
quickly moved away from the dating site to a social media messaging forum. And not long 
after that (about a week - according to the messages Ive seen) C asked Mr H to lend her 
some money. Between 14 June 2021 and 2 March 2022 Mr H sent C around £77,000 over 
65 transactions.
The bank has now refunded 50% of the transactions from the transfer of £4,000 on 18 June 
2021 onwards; so 50% of all - but the first four transactions. This is because it feels the first 
few transactions were relatively small and not unusual for the account. But it felt it should 
have done more to stop the remaining transactions.  It also offered £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience as it initially did not offer 50% on a number of transactions it later felt it should 
have done. However, it felt Mr H should share in the responsibility for his losses  so did not 
offer to refund the other 50% of his transactions.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He did explore some points raised by Mr Hs 
representative regarding vulnerability with the bank but reached the view that the banks 
position to refund 50% of the transactions from the fifth transaction onwards was fair. 
Mrs R, on behalf of Mr H, did not agree. She felt Mr H was vulnerable and the bank should 
have done more.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 September 2023 explaining why I was thinking of the 
same outcome as the investigator but explained my reasoning in more detail and proposed 
Lloyds pay an additional sum for distress and inconvenience. Lloyds accepted with my 
provisional decision. Mrs R, on behalf of Mr D, did not accept my provisional decision. In 
brief she said:
They feel the amount of compensation being offered is appalling. They feel the bank 
admitted they were in the wrong and whilst the bank did tell Mr H it was fraud, they never at 
any point called the police. At no point did they say they would try and get his money back. 
The compensation they gave him was for their mistakes in freezing the current account 
instead of his credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mrs Rs response to my provisional decision. 
Its not in dispute the bank could and should have done more; Lloyds and I have accepted 
that conclusion. I think the difficulty here is that I do feel (for the reasons outlined in my 
decision) Mr H should also take some responsibility for his decisions and actions. This is not 
a decision Ive made lightly. I appreciate this is a significant amount of money to Mr H and 
his family. 
I am sorry if the additional award I made has caused more upset - that certainly was not my 
intention. I do appreciate the award is small in comparison to the overall losses Mr H has 
suffered but such awards are separate from, and not intended to compensate for, those 
losses.
Deciding on an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience, isnt an exact 
science. And I dont have the power to make any punitive award against Lloyds. As Ive said 
it is not intended to compensate for any actual financial loss a consumer has experienced. 
I do think the scam had a significant impact on Mr Hs mental wellbeing. He has a lot of 
health problems which have escalated over the last year both mentally and physically. 
But I need to carefully consider the impact of Lloyds mistakes have made, not those of the 
other parties involved here. Most significantly, this means attempting to discount the actions 
of the fraudster, who was ultimately the party who committed this fraud on Mr H and, as 
such, was the direct cause of Mr Hs losses and the subsequent impact.
As outlined in my provisional decision, Lloyds did try to recover the funds as soon as it was 
notified by Mr H this was a scam. 
Having considered Mrs Rs representations carefully, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I have set this out below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
There is no dispute that Mr H has been a victim of fraud and I am deeply sorry for that, but it 
doesnt automatically mean Lloyds is liable for some or all of his losses. In fact, the relevant 
regulations (and the terms of his account) make him responsible for payments hes made 
himself in the first instance. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mr H authorised the payments. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have reimbursed Mr H in line with the provisions of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) it has signed up to and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect Mr H from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr H was tricked into making the payments. He thought he was 
helping someone he believed he was in a relationship with and this wasnt the case. But this 
isnt enough, in itself, for Mr H to receive a full refund of the money under the CRM Code.The CRM Code
Lloyds has signed up to the CRM Code. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. 
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
The CRM Code also outlines the standards a firm is expected to meet. And it says that when 
assessing whether the firm has met those standards, consideration must be given to 
whether compliance with those standards would have had a material effect on preventing the 
APP scam that took place.
I am also mindful that when Mr H made these payments, Lloyds should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or 
make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
Did Lloyds meet its obligations under the CRM Code and did Mr H ignore an effective 
warning?
The CRM Code says that effective warnings should be risk based and, where possible, 
tailored to the APP scam risk indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through 
the user interface with which the customer is initiating the payment instructions.
The first few transfers were relatively small, and I dont think Lloyds ought reasonably to 
have identified a risk. The first payment was for £250  an unremarkable amount. That said, 
Lloyds did provide a friends and family warning which asked do you know this person 
well? As Mr H had known C a few days/weeks and never met her in person, Lloyds says it 
would have expected Mr H to not sent the money without meeting her first and do more 
checks. Although I dont think the bank needed to provide an effective warning at this point - 
I dont think this warning can be considered an effective warning as defined by the CRM 
Code. I dont think its impactful and it doesnt seem to relate to romance scams. It also 
doesnt warn of the consequences of an irrevocable payment. Because I dont think its 
effective - I cant fairly say Mr H ignored an effective warning either.
I agree the bank could and should have done more from the £4,000 on 18 June 2021 
onwards. A pattern was emerging, and the amount(s) were unusual for the account. Lloyds 
has accepted its responsibility for its part from this point onwards  acknowledging that it 
ought to have done more and recognising that means it bears some accountability for Mr Hs 
loss. I havent seen any other warnings other than the one Lloyds says was provided for the 
first £250 transaction.  As I said above - I dont think this warning constitutes an effective 
warning as defined by the CRM Code  so I dont think Mr H ignored an effective warning 
when making the transfers via his mobile banking application.Did Mr H have a reasonable basis of belief or could Mr H have done more to mitigate his 
losses?
I need to consider not just whether Mr H believed he was sending money to help someone 
he thought he was in a relationship with but whether it was reasonable for him to do so. Ive 
thought about the steps Mr H took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the 
transactions and whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the payments. 
Overall, I dont think Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing these were genuine payment 
requests for a genuine person. I say this because:
Mr H sent considerable sums of money based on message requests from someone 
he had only recently met through an online dating site. Mr H had not met C in person, 
and I think the risk is clearly heightened and warranted further checking.
I do think there were points within the messages that Mr H clearly was concerned 
about the requests and I think he appreciated and realised the risk he was taking (or 
ought reasonably to have done so). 
I cant ignore the intervention from the bank and how this ought reasonably to have 
filtered into Mr Hs basis for belief. He was told quite early on (July 2021) that this 
was a scam but continued to make payments.
The bank also told Mr H the reasons he was given for making the payments (that Cs 
funds couldnt be released until shed paid tax) was nonsense.
Mr H was also promised by C he would get the earlier payments back around mid-
July and he even agreed with the bank on 12 July 2021 that he would wait until he 
got the money back before making further payments. But Mr H continued to make 
further payments despite not receiving anything back from C.
Mr H ultimately placed a lot of trust in a stranger who he had never met. I consider that Mr H 
ought to have had greater concerns and that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree 
of scrutiny on his part. Sending money to someone you havent met in person was always a 
big risk. Mr H would have had time between messages to reflect on what was being asked of 
him. He wasnt, in my view, under immediate pressure to proceed with the various 
payments. 
So, Im not persuaded Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing the payee was the 
person he was expecting to pay; that the payments was for genuine goods or services; or 
the person with whom Mr H transacted was legitimate.
My intention is not to further Mr Hs distress where hes already been victim of a cruel 
fraud. But merely to highlight that I do find Lloyds has been able to demonstrate that he 
could have done more to verify the validity of the person he was communicating with and 
the proposals they were making. And this would have ultimately prevented his own losses.
Vulnerability under the code
There are provisions under the code which might lead to a refund, even when a customer 
doesnt have a reasonable basis for belief. The relevant part of the Code, says: 
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis.Its clear from all that has been said that Mr H was going through a lot  in particular he was 
self-isolating during lockdown due to his medical conditions and it seems his mental health 
was suffering. And the scam has clearly impacted him further. 
Im sorry to hear of all Mr H has been through. Not just in terms of this scam, but also 
whats happened to him prior to the scam. Ive no doubt that he has been through a lot 
and I dont doubt that his mental health has suffered as a result. And no doubt the scam 
has impacted him further. 
But Ive considered whether there were vulnerabilities present at the time to such an 
extent that Mr H was unable to take steps to identify the scam he fell victim to or to 
recognise steps he might take to test the legitimacy of what he was being told by the 
fraudster. To do so I must consider the details of the scam, Mr Hs actions throughout, and 
the wider circumstances of what was happening in his life at the time. 
I dont doubt Mr H has suffered as a result of his physical and mental well-being as well as 
his own existing relationship and the impact of social isolation during lockdown. But there 
is also evidence within the circumstances that suggests he was capable of taking steps to 
protect himself from fraud and financial harm. That is to say there was more he might 
reasonably have done that would have led to the scam being uncovered. 
The evidence indicates he was in full control of his finances and the content of the 
messages persuades me he recognised the risk involved in sending money to C and that 
he was capable of protecting himself from financial harm. He even discussed the 
possibility he was being scammed.
Having thought very carefully about everything Mrs R has told us, whilst Im not saying Mr 
Hs circumstances had no impact on him at the time, Im not persuaded that it would be 
unreasonable to expect him to have protected himself against the particular scam he fell 
victim to. And so, I dont find that Lloyds need refund Mr Hs entire loss under the 
vulnerability clause of the code.
Should Lloyds have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr H?
As well as the CRM Code, a bank still has wider obligations and a duty to protect its 
customers, as far as is reasonably possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and 
scams. As such, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im not going to go into detail here because under these considerations, I would still reach 
the same overall conclusion as I have under the CRM Code; that is I would still expect 
Lloyds to refund 50% of the transactions from the fifth transaction onwards.
I dont think the first four transactions would have caused Lloyds concern. The payments 
were relatively small and did not look unusual or suspicious based on the account activity. 
Banks cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. There is a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments.
In this case, it seems Lloyds did have concerns as it stopped a payment on 11/12 July 2021 
before processing it. So, it seems Lloyds identified an APP scam risk in the payment 
journey. And as I have already said Lloyds accepted its part. It said it restored Mr Hs bank 
account when it accepts it ought to have invoked the Banking Protocol. But under these considerations I still also need to consider Mr Hs actions and how those 
contributed to his losses. Having done so, I do think it is fair and reasonable for him to share 
in the responsibility - broadly for the same reasons as I set out above when I said he didnt 
have a reasonable basis to believe the person he was paying was genuine or that the 
payment requests were genuine. Ive also considered that Mr H was prepared to mislead the 
bank about how long hed known C and that he had met her in person.
Given that Lloyds could have prevented the loss (but Mr H should share in the responsibility 
for his loss) I think its offer to refund 50% of the transaction from the fifth transactions 
onwards is fair and reasonable in this case.
Did Lloyds do enough to recover Mr Hs funds?
Ive thought about whether Lloyds took reasonable steps to recover Mr Hs funds once it was 
made aware he was the victim of a scam. The first payment was made on 14 June 2021 and 
the last one on 2 March 2022. Mr H reported the scam to Lloyds on 8 March 2022. From 
what I can see Lloyds contacted the receiving bank at the same time but were told that no 
funds remain. This is not unusual as scammers usually remove funds within hours. So, I 
dont think Lloyds could have done anymore to recover Mr Hs funds.
Distress and inconvenience
Finally, Ive considered whether Lloyds should pay Mr H any further compensation for 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of its actions. In considering this, 
Ive specifically thought about the impact of Lloyds actions, rather than the impact of the 
crime itself. Lloyds failure to sufficiently act has had an impact on Mr H, not least because he 
has been facing the very real possibility that he would not get his money back. As Ive 
explained, Lloyds had an opportunity to prevent the scam and the loss. For these reasons, I 
think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to pay a further £350 for distress and inconvenience 
on top of the £150 it has already paid (so £500 in total) in this case. 
I am upholding this complaint in part. I realise my decision will be a significant 
disappointment to Mr H. I sympathise with his circumstances and I am sorry he has fallen 
victim to a scam and lost so much money. But I think this is the fair and reasonable outcome 
taking everything into account.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right for Mr H as follows:
Pay £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank PLC to put 
things right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman