DRN-2036447
The complaint
Mr T complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has dealt with his travel insurance 
claim. My references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mr T has travel insurance through his bank account, the insurer is UKI.
In December 2019 Mr T travelled abroad for a holiday/job interview. His luggage didnt arrive 
at the airport abroad. He claimed for his lost luggage to the airline which paid him 
compensation of 1,500 USD (£1,141). Mr T says that amount doesnt cover the value of the 
items he lost (which he estimates to be £8,000) and he claimed on his policy.
Mr T complains that UKI asked him to provide documents that make no sense and asked 
for the same documents even after hed already sent them. He says UKI is holding up 
paying the claim for no reason. He also says hes been stressed by having to constantly call 
to chase UKI, he feels helpless and hes gone into overdraft since he made the claim. He 
wants UKI to pay the claim.
At the time Mr T complained to us UKI had paid £175 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience caused by its unnecessary delays in assessing the claim.
Our investigator said UKI had paid reasonable compensation for Mr Ts distress and 
inconvenience for the issues with its service to the time Mr T complained to us.
Mr T wants an ombudsmans decision. He says hes no further forward in having the claim 
paid and hes provided UKI with all the evidence he can.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T is frustrated that UKI hasnt paid his claim. But UKI hasnt yet made a decision about 
whether it will pay Mr Ts claim. Its still waiting for information it asked Mr T to provide.
As Mr T has told us hes provided all the evidence he can I think the best way forward would 
be for UKI to decide whether it will accept the claim on the information it has. If UKI decides 
to decline the claim it should tell Mr T why. If Mr T doesnt agree with UKIs decision he can 
then complain to it then make a separate complaint to us if he wishes to. 
As our investigator explained, Mr T can also complain to UKI about its service since hes 
complained to us. UKI needs to have the opportunity to respond to those concerns before 
we can look at any further complaint he makes to us. 
Mr T also told us about his stress and frustration in pursuing the compensation against the 
airline. UKI isnt responsible for the airlines actions and I dont have power to make any 
award against the airline.
This decision is only about whether UKIs £175 compensation payment for Mr Ts distress 
and inconvenience to the time he complained to us was fair and reasonable, and I think it 
was. Ill explain why.
UKI asked Mr T for evidence to substantiate his claim which included: receipts for and proof 
of ownership of items claimed for, confirmation of what the compensation from the airline 
was for and confirmation from the airline that the luggage hadnt been found.
UKI acted reasonably in asking for the evidence, which is a usual part of an insurer 
assessing a claim. UKI asked Mr T to resend some of the documents. UKIs notes show 
some of the documents it first received were unclear so it was fair for UKI to ask Mr T to 
resend those documents. 
But UKI accepts it delayed in reviewing documents Mr T sent and I think it gave poor 
service. Its clear Mr T had to chase UKI to get it to look at the documents and its been slow 
to consider what additional information it wants.
I accept Mr T was stressed and frustrated by UKIs poor service during the relevant period. 
I havent seen any evidence that he went into overdraft due to UKIs delays at that time. And  
even if he did, as Ive said, Im not in a position at the moment to say whether UKI should 
have paid the claim.
Im satisfied that UKIs payment of £175 compensation for Mr Ts distress and inconvenience 
was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman