DRN-1653293
The complaint
Mr O complains that Eurocar Group Ltd, trading as All Car Leasing (ACL), mis sold a 
finance agreement to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint ACL, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
upfront payments
If the finance agreement was misrepresented to Mr O and if he was told something that led 
him to enter an agreement he would not otherwise have entered into, I would ask ACL to 
take some action. Here, Mr O says he wasnt told about the upfront payments associated 
with the initial rentals on this agreement.
Im not persuaded that this finance agreement was misrepresented as:
I think the website makes the requirement for initial rentals clear;
the agent referred to the deposit on a phone call with Mr O and I think most people 
would consider a deposit to be an upfront payment;
ACL sent an email to Mr O that confirmed the upfront costs;
regardless of the information, Mr O didnt enter into the agreement. 
But he did incur some processing costs, so Ill consider whether it was fair for ACL to retain 
the processing fee.
the processing fee
When Mr O realised there were upfront costs he decided not to proceed with the agreement.
Section 155 of the CCA 1974 (section 155) says payments for credit broking should be 
refunded if the consumer doesnt enter into the finance agreement within six months. Mr O 
didnt enter into the finance agreement so I think the legislation suggests the processing fee 
should be refunded to Mr O.
The business have raised concerns that the processing fee wasnt part of the credit 
agreement and therefore the activity isnt regulated.
The Perimeter Guidance Manual, PERG of the FCA Handbook has six definitions of credit 
broking under PERG 2.7.7E, including the following:
effecting an introduction of an individual who wishes to enter into a consumer hire
agreement to another person
I think thats what ACL were doing here, and I think the processing fee is a fee associated 
with processing that credit agreement. 
So, I think the activity carried out by ACL for which they charged a processing fee was an 
ancillary operation carried out in relation to their regulated credit broking activities. That can 
therefore be considered by this service.
ACL said that the processing fee was non-refundable and explained that it was the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) who had advised them of that. But the email ACL provided did not 
demonstrate that was what the FCA had told them. In that email the FCA said: Ultimately, it 
is down to the Ombudsman to decide if the complaint is in scope or not, and we wouldn't 
overrule them." 
In all of those circumstances, therefore, I think it would be fair for the processing fee to be 
refunded.
Putting things right
Mr O didnt enter the finance agreement that was proposed. Section 155 is clear, in those 
circumstances, that the processing fee, less £5, should be refunded. Mr O has been 
deprived of that money so ACL should add interest to the refund.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Eurocar Group Ltd to refund 
the processing fee, less £5. They should add 8% simple interest per year to the refund from 
the date Mr O paid it to the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman