DRN-3077960
The complaint
Mrs M says CMAL Limited trading as The Mortgage Doctors mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2008. She paid a lump sum for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for her, so Ill explain why. 
Mrs M says that CMAL didnt make it clear that the MPPI policy was optional  and she cant 
recall any paperwork that was completed at the time of the sale. But I wouldnt expect her to 
remember everything that happened in 2008.
CMAL doesnt have copies of the paperwork that was completed during the sale of Mrs Ms 
MPPI  but this isnt unusual for a sale that took place so long ago  and business arent 
required to keep records indefinitely.
But CMAL has been able to provide samples of the type of paperwork that it wouldve used 
during this type of sale at the time  and I think that its most likely that Mrs M wouldve had 
to complete this paperwork in order for a policy to have been put in place. I can see from this 
that the MPI policy was highlighted as being optional  and that Mrs M wouldve been given 
a choice in taking it out. 
CMAL didnt recommend the MPPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her, 
but it did need to give Mrs M enough information for her to decide if she thought the policy 
was right for her. 
And from the samples of paperwork that I have seen, it seems that cost of the policy was 
shown. So, I think Mrs M wouldve understood how much she would need to pay for it. 
It is possible CMAL didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs M doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those things, given what shes said about her 
personal circumstances. And while Mrs M has said that she had cover in place to make her 
repayments if she needed to, the MPPI policy couldve paid out alongside, or on top of this 
cover, leaving these available for other expenses. 
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ms comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case known as Plevin which involved the commission on a 
PPI policy. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) then introduced new rules and 
guidance for businesses to follow when looking at PPI complaints. The rules meant 
businesses would sometimes have to give back some of the commission paid on certain PPI 
policies.
But this was about what lenders should do, and CMAL isnt a lender  so these rules and 
guidance dont apply  but I understand that Mrs M isnt looking to make a complaint about 
commission anyway.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman