DRN-3971321
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold him a Sun Life Guaranteed 
Over 50 Plan, (the plan). He says he didnt know hed opted to purchase it, didnt 
understand it, and that the costs and benefits werent explained to him. He says hes paid 
more into the plan than it will now pay out. He wants Aviva to refund all his premiums, plus 
interest.
What happened
The plan started in 1995 and Mr S has paid a premium of £10 a month since then for a sum 
assured of £1,540. Aviva didnt advise Mr S to take out the plan; it was a direct sale, 
meaning he responded to some marketing information.
Aviva said it supplied Mr S with information which enabled him to decide whether the plan 
was suitable for his circumstances. It said it had previously written to him to give him the 
option of stopping making the monthly premiums to convert the plan to paid up or to cancel 
the plan and receive a cash-in value now.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the plan had provided life cover for Mr S, that he was made aware the premiums paid might 
exceed the sum assured, and that, more recently, Aviva had given him options if he wanted 
to stop paying the premiums.
Mr S didnt agree and said he didnt receive Avivas 2019 letter about his options.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S took out the plan many years ago and full records of what happened at the time arent 
available. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Aviva didnt recommend the plan to Mr S, so it didnt have responsibility for ensuring it was 
suitable for him. But it did have to provide him with enough information for him to decide for 
himself if the plan met his needs.
Aviva has provided a copy of the marketing that it used in or around 1995 and I think that, in 
all likelihood, Mr S applied for the plan by post in response to this marketing. Mr S says he 
doesnt remember opting for the product. But the plan was a stand-alone product and Mr S 
must have wanted to take it out because he completed and signed the application form, 
including choosing the amount of cover and premium payments. Its not surprising he 
doesnt remember that now as it happened so long ago.
The marketing information Mr S would have received explains that the plan is a life 
assurance plan designed to provide a fixed sum on death. As Mr S chose a monthly 
premium of £10, I dont think it would have been difficult for him to calculate how long he 
would have to pay the premiums to exceed the sum assured. But I would expect Aviva to 
have drawn this to his attention. I can see there was a warning in the marketing, and also in 
the key features, which says:
If you live long enough the total premiums paid will eventually be greater than the amount 
payable on death.
The key features also included some simple examples to illustrate this.
The plan was a life assurance plan designed to provide protection and pay out a sum of 
money if Mr S died. Unlike a savings account, or other investments, there was no guarantee 
that the amount the plan paid out would be as much as hed paid in. And Im satisfied this 
was made clear.
Mr S has lived past the point at which his total premiums paid were greater than the death 
benefit under the plan. But before then the plan would have paid out more than hed paid in 
and, early on, significantly more. The potential benefits the plan would have provided in the 
event of an early claim should be considered against the risk of Mr S living long enough to 
pay in more than the death benefit.
Im also satisfied that Aviva has set out two options for Mr S if he wants to stop paying the 
monthly premiums. It is unfortunate Mr S didnt receive, or has over-looked, Avivas letter 
which set this out. Im satisfied from what Aviva has provided that the letter was sent on 
5 December 2019 to Mr Ss correct postal address. So I cant hold it responsible if the letter 
wasnt delivered. I think its fair that Aviva set out these options again in its final response to 
Mr Ss complaint.
Overall I find the plan worked as it intended to. And Aviva provided enough information, 
which was reasonably clear, to explain how the plan worked. Im satisfied Mr S was given 
enough information about the plan to make an informed decision whether or not to take it 
out. So I dont think Aviva mis-sold it to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman