DRN-3450018
The complaint
Mr R complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his U Account, and he couldnt 
access the funds in the account. The funds were later sent back to the original sender.
The U Account was a pre-paid payment card which at the time of Mr Rs complaint was 
administered by Wirecard Card Solutions Ltd. 
What happened
Mr R had an electronic money account with U Account. He made regular use of the account, 
including payments to and from gambling merchants.
In May 2020 U Account blocked access to the account while it carried out a review. As part 
of this review U Account asked Mr R to provide proof of his identity and address; as well as 
answer some questions about the source of his funds, and his usage of the account. During 
this time Mr R couldnt make or receive any payments.
Mr R provided some of the requested information, but this wasnt enough to satisfy 
U Account that the block should be removed. Mr R contacted U Account repeatedly to find 
out what was happening with his account, saying this was his only account and he needed 
access to the funds. After a week he told U Account he wished to close the account and 
have the funds returned to him.
However, after completing their review, U Account took the decision to return the funds to 
source, which was a gambling merchant. They sent two cheques  one for £735.08 and one 
for £404.09. Mr R complained to U Account about this, and the difficult hed had in arranging 
a Subject Access Request (DSAR). 
U Account responded to say that they were allowed to suspend access to an account under 
their terms, and they did not have to provide any information as to why they were carrying 
out a review. They had no timescale on when they expected to complete their review. It was 
accepted Mr R had requested his account be closed, but they couldnt do this while the 
account was under review. They explained that any payments in to the account would be 
returned to source.
Unhappy with this answer Mr R referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked in to what happened, and concluded that U Account were entitled to 
review accounts in line with their legal and regulatory obligations, and didnt have to provide 
any further details as to why. 
However they felt U Account hadnt been helpful in not providing Mr R a final statement to 
help recover the funds returned to source. They felt that returning the funds to source wasnt 
the most reasonable course of action. They upheld the complaint and asked U Account to 
return the funds in the account when it was restricted to Mr R, along with 8% statutory 
interest and £150 compensation.
Mr R accepted this, but U Account did not. Because no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision which said:
The investigator has correctly highlighted that U Account have important legal and regulatory 
obligations to meet when providing accounts to customers. And to meet these obligations 
theyre required to monitor the accounts of both new and existing consumers. This can also 
mean that sometimes they have to review accounts, and this may entail restricting their 
consumers access to the account. 
Having reviewed the information U Account relied upon, Im satisfied that it was reasonable 
of them to carry out a review of Mr Rs account and ask him for further information. Im also 
satisfied that it was reasonable to restrict the use of the account while the review was being 
carried out. 
I can see U Account let Mr R know they had restricted the account, and what further 
information they were looking for from him, on the day the restriction was applied. U Account 
arent under any obligation to let a consumer know why an account is being reviewed, or 
how long it will take. But U Account should keep the consumer updated and not create any 
unnecessary delays. 
I appreciate that this would be frustrating for Mr R, but I think U Account were clear on what 
was happening and that he wouldnt be able to use the account in the interim. After a week 
Mr R decided to ask U Account to close the account, so Im satisfied at this point he no 
longer wished to continue using the service. But as they were reviewing the account under 
their legal and regulatory obligations, I wouldnt expect U Account to stop the review. 
U Account finished their review within 20 days, and let Mr R know they would be returning 
the funds to source. I consider this to be a reasonable timeframe for an investigation. From 
the chat thread I can see U Account were responsive to questions and evidence sent in by 
Mr R. So, while I accept it was inconvenient for Mr R to have his account blocked for this 
period, I cant say U Account did anything wrong by this, or treated Mr R unfairly.
U Account have explained they returned the funds in the account to source, in the form of 
two cheques sent to the gambling merchant. I can also see they informed Mr R of their 
intention to do this at the time.
Reviewing the statements, I can see that the entire balance of the account at the time it was 
closed was made up of payments in from this particular gambling merchant. Two payments 
 one of £300 and £400  were received the day the block was applied, and U Account 
wrote to Mr R to explain theyd treat them as failed and return them to source. In the 
circumstances this is a reasonable step to take. Mr R questioned why these payments were 
allowed in to the account  but ultimately I dont see that Mr R is in a different position 
whether the payments were accepted in error and returned later, or rejected immediately. Its 
money U Account were always going to return to the merchant.
The remaining balance that was returned appears not to be made up of regular wages, or 
benefits, but receipts from the gambling merchant. Im satisfied the money was returned to 
the correct source, although this was likely sent there from Mr Rs U Account in the first 
place. There are a lot of transactions to and from this particular merchant in the period 
leading up to the account being blocked, and the ultimate source of the funds is difficult to 
see. In the circumstances of this complaint Im not satisfied Mr R has demonstrated his 
entitlement to any remaining funds, and I consider it was reasonable for U Account to return 
these funds to the gambling merchant.Mr R has asked about a later payment for £800 that he believes should be in the account. 
From the statements available, I cant see this ever credited the account. And I can see 
U Account sent a letter explaining this had been reversed and returned to the sender. In any 
case I understand the date of this payment was considerably after Mr R knew about the 
account block, and that U Account would return any incoming payments. I think its more 
likely than not it was returned to the person who made it, which is what Id expect to happen.
In this case U Account werent able to verify Mr Rs entitlement to the funds. I agree that 
returning the funds was the right action in the circumstances. So, I cant say U Account has 
treated Mr R unfairly in doing so. However, despite being asked by the investigator U 
Account hasnt shown exactly where the funds were sent.
I know Mr R wants more information about where the money went, such as account details, 
so that he can trace the money. But if the payments were legitimate, and he has an ongoing 
relationship with this merchant, it suggests he already knows where the money has gone. 
That being said, I agree with the investigator, that it would be helpful if U Account provided 
Mr R with more information about where exactly it returned the money back to in order to 
assist Mr R with recovering his funds.
They dont appear to have sent him a closing statement, or any information about where 
they sent the cheques, so he could then follow this up with the merchant. I can see he 
enquired about this several times, and I can appreciate this would be upsetting for him. 
Because of this, I think U Account should pay Mr R £100 compensation to recognise the 
trouble and upset this caused him. 
I think its important that U Account provide Mr R with the information about the cheques and 
where they were sent so he can follow this up with the merchant if he chooses to do so. 
U Account didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
Mr R didnt accept the provisional decision. He said the crux of his complaint was around the 
return of funds in his account when it was closed. He provided further correspondence with 
the gambling merchant, which suggested they couldnt cash the cheques so returned them 
unpaid. He said his gambling account with the merchant was closed around the same time. 
He asked for further information about the payment of £800 inbound to his account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the provisional decision Ive considered the evidence afresh and reviewed the 
additional information provided by Mr R, and I thank him for providing this.
Im still minded that it was reasonable for U Account to restrict the account while they carried 
out a review, and this was in line with the terms of their account. And Im satisfied they let Mr 
R know in good time that the account would be restricted and were responsive to Mr R in the 
chat. 
I think the timescale for the investigation was a reasonable one and the ultimate decision to 
close the account was in line with the terms of the U Account. So, I accept Mr R was 
inconvenienced by the block and eventually closure, but I dont think U Account were unfair 
to him in this regard.Turning to the funds in the account, Mr R has provided some further information from the 
merchant which suggests they returned the cheques. Again, I thank him for this  but it 
doesnt change the underlying finding that Im not satisfied Mr R has demonstrated he was 
entitlement to any funds that were remaining in the account. And nothing hes provided since 
the provisional decision has changed that. 
On that basis it would now be up to U Account to liaise with the merchant around any return 
of funds  I wouldnt suggest U Account release them to Mr R. However, they should let Mr 
R know when the funds have been returned, and how.
The payment of £800 was made some time after Mr R would have been aware the account 
was blocked. It wouldnt be reasonable for Mr R to expect to be able to receive these funds. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest U Account are retaining these funds, and in any case the 
loss would be to the sender, not Mr R. So, Im not asking them to do anything further.
However, I am still minded that U Account havent been helpful to Mr R. He did repeatedly 
have to chase up the information with U Account and hasnt been provided with straight 
answers. So, while I feel the closing of the account was reasonable, I can see how 
U Accounts handling of it would have caused him distress. With that in mind I think its right 
they pay him £100 in compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Wirecard Card Solutions Ltd should pay Mr R £100, and let him 
know when they have returned the funds to merchant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman