DRN-3227724
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that her pension provider, Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon),
has miscalculated a deduction from her pension plan following an error by her employer in
reporting pension deductions. The error led to pension tax relief being applied twice. Mrs H
claims the decrease in her pension does not accord with the pension tax relief that was
double counted.
What happened
I set out my provisional conclusions in a provisional decision dated 23 November 2021. The 
following is an extract from the provisional decision
Mrs H joined her employers pension scheme in September 2012. Both Mrs H and 
her employer made contributions to the scheme. 
In August 2019, the employer notified Scottish Equitable that it had incorrectly 
reported employee contributions to the pension fund. Those contributions had been 
deducted by the employer before income tax deductions. The employers report had 
been that the deductions were eligible for tax relief when they were not. Scottish 
Equitable had acted on the employer report and claimed tax relief from Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC). The sums of tax relief claimed were added to the 
individuals pension plans.
Following the employers disclosure, Scottish Equitable undertook work to correct the 
individual accounts that had been affected. Scottish Equitable manually corrected the 
individual accounts and provided a before and after correction valuation of the 
individuals pension plans. Mrs Hs pension accounts before and after correction 
values were notified to her as £23,831.49 and £21,498.62 respectively. 
Scottish Equitable also advised that they are not able to correct accounts for more 
than the last 6 year period. Therefore, any errors prior to April 2013 were not 
corrected.
In October 2019 Scottish Equitable emailed the employer and advised the 
corrections had been applied to all the affected accounts. Scottish Equitable also 
advised the employer that it should explain the error and corrections to its 
employees. The employer notified the affected employees. When Mrs H was notified, 
she was concerned that there had been nothing sent to her by Scottish Equitable.
Mrs H requested that Scottish Equitable provide their calculations to explain how 
these figures were arrived at. The response she received was that there was no 
calculation  just that the account had been corrected. Mrs H complained to our 
service that the deductions made by Scottish Equitable do not match the tax relief 
that has been double claimed and the deduction is therefore higher than it should be.
Despite Mrs H asking Scottish Equitable for a breakdown of the calculation, it was 
not provided. An explanation of the methodology used was only provided when our 
investigator pressed Scottish Equitable for it.
Scottish Equitable explained that the figures are not calculated, by which I 
understand it meant that it is not a simple case of deducting money from the plan. 
The plan must be corrected. That correction is done by removing the tax relief on the 
pension contributions. This in turn removes not only the contribution amount but also 
any value it accrued thereafter, which would apply equally to an increase or decrease 
in that value.
Following this explanation and an overall evaluation of the case, our investigator 
decided that the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs H did not agree with the view of 
the investigator. Mrs H was concerned that the calculation had not been undertaken 
correctly, that the amount deducted was not the same as the tax relief over the years 
of the adjustment and that she was therefore seeking a breakdown of the 
calculations. Mrs H requested a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The pension scheme Mrs H joined is a group personal pension plan. The terms and
conditions produced show this was with Aegon. It details that both the employee and
employer will contribute to the pension fund. Those contributions will be invested in a 
fund abbreviated as Univ Lifestyle Col.
In accordance with the Finance Act 2004, pension contributions are entitled to tax 
relief. That is that they may be exempt from income tax. There is more than one way 
that this can be applied, however it is clear that the employer made the pension plan 
deductions before income tax was calculated. Therefore, tax relief was applied 
directly without a need to make a separate claim to HMRC for tax relief.
The employer incorrectly reported that this had not happened and Scottish Equitable 
then made a further claim to HMRC and applied it to the pension plan. As Mrs H has 
rightly said, this wasnt a claim made by her employer  rather, it is made by the 
pension provider. This can be seen from the very first plan illustration provided to Mrs 
H in September 2012 and each of the subsequent statements. It details that tax relief 
was added to each of the employee contributions by Scottish Equitable.
The employer is required to notify the pension provider of any error in seeking tax 
relief on contributions. Scottish Equitable, once made aware of the error, is also 
obliged to take action. The effect of that action was to correct the accounts of the 
affected employees.
As Ive said above, the pension contributions were invested in Univ Lifestyle Col 
fund. Each of the statements provided annually to Mrs H demonstrate that the value 
of the investments can fall as well as rise and are not guaranteed. Once the 
contribution is made from Mrs Hs pay, it is invested in the relevant fund. This means 
that the particular contribution buys units in the investment fund and the value of 
those units can change. 
The corrective action taken by Scottish Equitable was to remove the units purchased 
with the double counted tax relief. That would also mean that any increase, or decrease, those units attracted would also have been removed from the fund value. 
Therefore, Mrs H is right that the value of her contributions over the 6 year period for 
which Scottish Equitable made corrections is not equal to the value of her fund with 
the tax relief deducted. The difference is higher than those contributions, because the 
value of the units held in her pension plan which had been bought with the tax relief 
had increased.
To put it another way, that increased value is a direct result of those units that would 
not have been purchased but for the additional investment from the tax relief. I am 
therefore satisfied that, in principle, Scottish Equitable have acted appropriately by 
correcting Mrs Hs account. I am also satisfied, again in principle, that those 
corrections were applied in such a way as to place the pension plan in the position it 
should have been, as if the error had not occurred. Mrs H was also concerned about 
the information being provided by her employer, rather than Scottish Equitable. The 
error was not made by Scottish Equitable. It was made by the employer. I do not 
consider that Scottish Equitable acted improperly by asking the employer to notify of 
that error and that corrective action was being undertaken.
But although I think its likely that Scottish Equitable has taken appropriate action to 
correct the mistake made by Mrs Hs employer, I dont think that what shes asked for 
is unreasonable  i.e. a breakdown of what deductions have been made and how this 
has affected her fund value over time. Given that Scottish Equitable will have a 
record of the unit corrections at the points they were made, which would have 
corresponded with the amount of tax relief added, it doesnt seem to me to be an 
overly onerous requirement upon it to produce this breakdown to Mrs H.
I think its only through receipt of this kind of breakdown that Mrs H will be reassured 
that the deductions have been made correctly.
And so, although I fully acknowledge that no mistake was made by Scottish Equitable 
in applying the tax relief to begin with, and that it has done what it thinks it needs to in 
order to put matters right, I think it could have gone further than simply telling Mrs H 
what it had done, especially when she expressed concern that she thought it had 
been done incorrectly.
I gave both parties an opportunity to respond to the conclusion that I reached, namely that 
Scottish Equitable provide a breakdown of the deductions made, in both monetary terms (the 
amounts of tax relief incorrectly applied on each occasion) and the unit deduction which had 
been made in respect of that.
I have received and considered the responses from Mrs H and Scottish Equitable..  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered afresh everything the parties have said and provided previously. Scottish 
Equitables response to the provision decision was to reaffirm that they were not able to 
provide the information. It went on to repeat the method employed in calculating the 
corrections. Scottish Equitable also referred to Mrs Hs ability to view the plan online, along 
with the contribution history and this would provide the reassurance necessary. Scottish 
Equitable also stated it could provide a summary of the transactions made to the plan to 
show the amounts applied. It went on to state it didnt provide the calculation previously as 
this isnt something that we can provide easily. Scottish Equitable disagreed that the details I concluded be provided would give Mrs H reassurance.
Scottish Equitable also mention that this was an error by Mrs Hs employer they were 
correcting. That Mrs H, in querying the calculation had not provided any comparisons of her 
own to show the calculation is incorrect. My view is that Mrs H is not required to do so. The 
fund is administered by Scottish Equitable and as the financial institution they should satisfy 
Mrs H that they have acted appropriately in relation to her investment. An error occurred 
here  albeit not caused by Aegon  but under such circumstances, I think that Mrs H is 
entitled to be concerned as to whether the deductions made are correct.
In response to the provisional decision, Mrs H continued to maintain that she was not able to 
make representations without the calculation and that there was no way to know the 
calculation was accurate.
My provisional decision was that the action taken by Scottish Equitable was appropriate. I 
was satisfied the methodology employed to correct the fund was robust and ensured an 
accurate correction. The points raised by Mrs H are the same as those made in her initial 
complaint.
While I remain satisfied that Scottish Equitable have not made a mistake, I do consider that it 
should be able to provide an explanation as to how it arrived at the deduction it made. In its 
most recent correspondence, Scottish Equitable have stated that it could not easily provide 
this information, not that it was impossible. I am not unsympathetic that it may require 
significant work on the part of Scottish Equitable but I do consider it is necessary in light of 
the concerns Mrs H raised. While the contributions made by Mrs H, visible to her online, 
might show her contributions, it will not detail what changes were made by Scottish 
Equitable. 
And I also think this could in fact be quite straightforward  for example, Aegon could simply 
demonstrate the number of units initially bought (and when they were bought) with the 
incorrectly applied tax relief, and then equate the value of those units to the actual deduction 
made when the fund was corrected. This information must have been readily available to 
Aegon for it to have made the appropriate deduction in the first place.
I therefore uphold the complaint in part, and require Scottish Equitable to provide the 
explanation of the deductions made, in both monetary terms (so the amounts of tax relief 
incorrectly applied on each occasion) and then the unit deduction which has been made in 
respect of this. This will enable Mrs H to satisfy herself that the correct deductions have 
been made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that Scottish Equitable should provide the 
details I have outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Dharmesh Patel
Ombudsman