DRN-4491708
The complaint
Miss S complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  
financed by Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline).
What happened
In February 2023 Miss S acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by Startline. 
In May 2023 Miss S said there was a warning message on the dashboard about the AdBlue 
system, and so she topped it up. This didnt clear the message, instead it showed the vehicle 
would be able to travel 50 miles before it would no longer start. 
Miss S said she contacted the dealership she acquired the car from, but they said itd be 2 or 
3 weeks for repairs to be completed, shed have to pay for them, and no courtesy car would 
be provided to her. Miss S said the dealership told her she could take the car to a third-party 
garage if she couldnt wait 2-3 weeks. 
Miss S took her car to a third-party garage, and she paid £397.40 for repairs in May 2023 
The garage investigated the engine management fault and renewed the AdBlue injector 
along with replacing the sensor. 
Following repairs, Miss S was driving the car to the airport when the warning message about 
AdBlue reappeared, saying the car wouldnt start in 50 miles. Miss S arranged for her car to 
be recovered to a local manufacturer garage and continued to the airport with her family by 
train. 
Miss S contacted the dealership whilst on holiday and she said they told her they wouldnt be 
able to help with repairs. The repair was completed by the manufacturer garage at the end of 
May 2023 and Miss S paid £519.72. The garage confirmed a fault to the emissions reduction 
injector constantly injecting AdBlue. The injector was replaced, and the diesel particulate 
filter (DPF) was regenerated as it was found to be blocked due to the fault. 
Miss S complained to Startline in May 2023 as the dealership refused to contribute toward 
the repairs. 
Startline issued their final response to Miss Ss complaint in July 2023. They said it was clear 
there was a fault with the vehicle, however the dealership or they should have been afforded 
the first opportunity to repair the vehicle and, as Miss S had already had the repairs 
completed, they were unable to assist any further. They said the broker of the agreement 
had offered £200 to Miss S as a gesture of goodwill.  
Unhappy with this, Miss S brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said 
she wanted Startline to pay for the repairs. 
Our investigator gave her view that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss S. She recommended that Startline refund the cost of both repairs Miss S 
had paid for, refund the cost of a car Miss S hired to return from the airport, refund the 
difference between Miss Ss car parking and train tickets, add interest to all refunds and pay 
Miss S £150 compensation. 
Miss S accepted our investigators recommendations. 
Startline didnt respond to our investigators view, or the four attempts she made to obtain 
their response to her view, so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Startline as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £16,000. It was around four 
years old and had travelled approximately 32,000 miles at the time of supply. 
I can see that Miss S contacted the dealership about an engine management light and the 
AdBlue system in May 2023, around three months after shed acquired the car. Ultimately it 
was discovered that the vehicle had a faulty emissions reduction injector. As Miss S had the 
car for a short period of time before the fault occurred, Im persuaded that the vehicle was 
faulty when it was supplied to her. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a vehicle 
of this age and mileage to have such a serious fault in such a short space of time that it 
requires significant work to prevent a more serious engine failure. 
Considering the age and mileage of the vehicle, and how quickly the fault occurred, Im 
persuaded that the car was not reasonably durable, and therefore was not of satisfactory 
quality at the time of supply. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, Startline should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.  
Startline said they werent given an opportunity to repair the vehicle, and so they arent now 
responsible for the costs. I can see that Miss S did contact the dealership and gave them the opportunity to inspect the 
vehicle. They told her shed have to wait 2-3 weeks for the repair, that shed have to pay for 
it and that they wouldnt provide her with a courtesy car whilst the repair was completed. 
Miss S explained that she needed the car to travel to work and was concerned that more 
serious problems would arise if she continued to use the vehicle. Miss S took the vehicle to a 
garage with immediate availability, and I find this was a reasonable thing for her to do in the 
circumstances. 
The garage attempted repairs by replacing a sensor and renewing the injector. This appears 
to have been a reasonable attempt at repair. I havent seen any evidence that suggests 
these repairs were unreasonable, or that the supplying dealership wouldve taken a different 
course of action if theyd seen the vehicle themselves. Therefore, Im satisfied that Startline 
should refund Miss S for the cost of this repair. 
The first repair didnt resolve the issue with the car, and Miss S needed to have the vehicle 
recovered to a second garage whilst she was travelling for a holiday. Miss S says the 
dealership told her again that shed have to pay for any repairs, and so the garage replaced 
the faulty injector and regenerated the blocked DPF. When Miss S returned from her holiday 
the car had been repaired. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Miss S to have her car recovered to a garage and 
repaired, particularly when shed been told she would have to pay for repairs herself. Im 
satisfied that Miss S did give Startline an opportunity to inspect the vehicle and complete 
repairs, but that she acted reasonably in the circumstances in taking the car elsewhere for 
this to be done. I havent seen anything to suggest the second repairs were unreasonable, or 
that the supplying dealership wouldve taken a different course of action if theyd seen the 
vehicle themselves. Therefore, Im satisfied that Startline should refund Miss S for the cost of 
this repair. 
Miss S said that when the AdBlue message illuminated for the second time she was on the 
way to the airport for a holiday. Miss S was able to get a refund for her airport parking of 
£125.99 but had to spend £174.80 on train tickets to get her to the airport. Im persuaded 
that Miss S wouldnt have needed to change her travel plans but for the unsatisfactory 
quality car supplied by Startline, and so they should refund Miss S for the difference in the 
parking and train costs.  
When Miss S returned from her holiday, she hired a car in order to return home. Miss S was 
travelling with a disabled child, and there were no direct public transport journeys available 
between the airport and her destination. Im satisfied that Miss S acted reasonably in hiring 
the car and attempted to mitigate her losses in doing so. Im also satisfied that Miss S 
needed to hire the car because the car that Startline supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
So, I find that Startline should refund Miss S for the cost of the hire car, upon receipt of an 
invoice. 
Miss S said she had booked a hotel at the airport which she wasnt able to use. Ive 
considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that this cost was a direct result of the car 
that Startline supplied being of unsatisfactory quality. There are a number of other factors 
that could have impacted Miss Ss hotel booking, and so Im not asking Startline to refund 
this cost. 
Miss S said she had to take a loan to pay for the repairs and has been charged interest on 
this. I cant reasonably say that Startline were responsible for the terms of any loan that Miss 
S agreed to, and so Im not asking them to refund the interest on this. However, Startline should add 8% simple yearly interest to each refund from the date of the payment to the date 
of the refund, to reflect that Miss S no longer had use of these funds.  
Miss S has been put to distress and inconvenience in being supplied with a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. She had to contact the dealership on a number of occasions and 
arrange for repairs to be completed. Our investigator recommended that Startline pay Miss S 
£150 compensation. Overall, Im satisfied that this fairly compensates Miss S for the distress 
and inconvenience that shes experienced.
 
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Startline supplied Miss S with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality. And 
so, as outlined above, Startline must: 
Refund Miss S a total of £917.12 for the repairs to the car
Refund Miss S for the hire car upon receipt of an invoice
Refund Miss S £48.81 for the difference between car parking and train tickets
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Pay Miss S £150 compensation
If Startline considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Ss complaint. Startline Motor Finance 
Limited should put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman