DRN-3988116
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the actions of Family Finance Limited in relation to a car hire-
purchase agreement she took out. Shes unhappy with the checks Family Finance carried 
out to assess her ability to make repayments, the interest rate it charged, and the steps it 
took when her income was reduced due to personal circumstances.
What happened
Mrs M entered into a hire-purchase agreement with Family Finance. She says that Family 
Finance didnt undertake suitable affordability checks, and that this meant it charged a high 
interest rate with repayments of more than half her disposable income.
Mrs M describes that her ability to meet the payments became a struggle when her salary 
fell due to maternity leave. This culminated in Family Finance taking her to court, where an 
order was made in relation to her liability for the debt and the level of payments she needed 
to make in order to keep the car.
She says keeping to this arrangement has meant shes fallen behind with priority debts such 
as her mortgage and council tax. She believes Family Finance should have done more to 
assist her rather than resorting to court action.
Family Finance considers it made appropriate checks, including obtaining evidence of 
Mrs Ms income and expenditure, as well as the way shed handled existing credit by means 
of a credit search. It says the interest rate it charged Mrs M reflected the risk indicated by 
these checks.
In relation to its handling of Mrs Ms financial situation, Family Finance said that when Mrs M 
started missing payments it agreed a plan with her, but that she failed to keep to this and 
ended up significantly in arrears. It says it took court action after offering Mrs M the option to 
return the car. Family Finance noted the court determined that Mrs M should pay the 
contractual payments other than a reduced amount during a subsequent period of maternity 
leave. As such, Mrs M would need to apply to the court for any variation to the order if 
complying with it affected her ability to meet priority debt.
Our investigator didnt think we could do very much to assist by intervening in the dispute. 
He noted the key issues at hand had already been the subject of court action, where an 
order was made that took into account how her ability to meet the repayments was affected 
by her changed circumstances. The investigator felt Mrs M had had the ability to raise her 
other concerns at the time of the court hearing. He said that ultimately, our service didnt 
have the power to override the courts decision and so he didnt recommend upholding the 
complaint.
Mrs M hasnt accepted the investigators findings, so Ive reviewed matters. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Ms concerns and fully appreciate that she found herself in a difficult 
situation in terms of her ability to maintain payments under the hire-purchase arrangements. 
Whether that was down to Family Finances original affordability assessment or her own 
change in personal circumstances (or indeed, a combination of these factors) is debatable. 
However, I dont think it would be right for me to add my thoughts to the views already 
expressed by the court, either in terms of how much Mrs M should have been lent, or how 
much she could afford to pay in order to keep the car.
I appreciate that Mrs M might not have made all the arguments at court that she has sought 
to raise here. Be that as it may, it was open to her to do so and our service doesnt provide a 
second opportunity to make points that werent raised at the court hearing, like the time 
taken to instigate legal proceedings or the interest rate charged.
As our investigator noted, the court reached a conclusion over the amount Mrs M should pay 
to Family Finance and made adjustments to the repayments for the periods it considered 
appropriate. It was open to the court to decide something other than the contractual 
payments, had it considered it appropriate to do so. The parties agreed to be bound by that 
arrangement, and so I share the view that its for the court rather than us to decide whether 
to make any amendments to it. That includes dealing with issues that might end up requiring 
amendments to be made.
Mrs M has told us her final payment was due on 25 February this year, so its possible her 
current financial situation will ease going forward. Im sure I dont need to stress to her the 
potential consequences of arrears on her council tax or her mortgage. But as I say, these 
would be factors the court would consider when deciding what an affordable level of 
payment should be on the hire-purchase arrangement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman