DRN-3732914
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs M complain about the level of support Lloyds Bank PLC offered after Mr L 
made a payment online to a company he says was operating a scam. 
As Mr L has taken the lead on the complaint, I refer to his submissions on the couples 
behalf throughout my decision. I intend no discourtesy to Mrs M by doing so. 
What happened
In June 2021, Mr L needed to renew his driving licence. He explains that he used the 
Government Gateway online portal to access Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) 
services. Mr L recalls that the website said there was no charge for the service, but he was 
prompted to enter his card details. 
When Mr L was checking his bank statements, he noticed a transaction for £80 on 
9 June 2021 that he did not recognise. The transaction was a debit card payment to 
Application Online. Mr L thought it must have been connected to his driving licence 
renewal. The DVLA would not have charged Mr L to renew his driving licence, so Mr L 
contacted the banks fraud department to dispute the payment.
Lloyds said this wasnt a fraud because Mr L did receive his driving licence. The bank 
thought Mr L had used a third-party website offering DVLA services and said he should try to 
get a refund directly from the merchant if he was unhappy. Mr L pointed out to Lloyds that 
this was a well-known scam and shared details of reviews hed found online from other 
people that had paid for services that DVLA provide free of charge. Mr L reported the matter 
to the Secretary of State for Transport via his MP. He thought that Lloyds should have done 
more to assist him instead of making it hard to identify who he had paid and report what had 
happened.
In Lloyds final response letter, it explained that it was not able to challenge the payment as 
a misrepresentation because Mr L did not have the terms of what he was purchasing or any 
details of the service the merchant was offering. The bank suggested that Mr L should 
contact the merchant to ask for the terms of the service and that he could search for the 
contact details online. 
Mr L referred the complaint to us. Our Investigator did not uphold it. He thought it was more 
likely than not that Mr L was not using the genuine Government Gateway. He said Mr L had 
authorised the payment by entering his card details and proceeding. He didnt think Lloyds 
should have questioned the payment at the time, so concluded there was nothing more the 
bank could have done to assist. 
Mr L disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed again. He explained that there 
was no doubt in his mind that hed accessed the genuine Government Gateway website and 
referred to the screenshot of the text message hed provided to show hed logged in. He 
pointed out that ordinary people could not trace who they had really paid from the 
information on a bank statement, but Lloyds could obtain that information from the recipient 
bank. 
He felt there were shortcomings if this type of scam is allowed to proceed so easily by banks 
and was disappointed that Lloyds did not do more to help stop it from affecting other people. 
Mr L explained that any website that is similar to the official DVLA website and does not 
make it clear that it is not the official one is operating illegally. He was disappointed and said 
the bank and the Financial Ombudsman Service were effectively encouraging this illegality 
by failing to act. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me. 
My further investigation 
When the complaint was referred to me, I contacted Mr L to clarify some details from the file. 
I explained to Mr L that the verification text message hed provided to show that he was 
logged into the genuine Government Gateway website was dated approximately two months 
before the payment in dispute was made. I suggested that this particular text message and 
verification were not from the time the payment was made and asked Mr L to check his 
records and confirm. 
I asked Mr L what he could remember seeing on the website. I explained the banks records 
showed the payment had been verified using his card details, but it was unclear why Mr L 
had entered them if thought the service was free of charge. I asked Mr L if hed received any 
email verification messages and suggested that something must have happened somewhere 
for him to have received his replacement driving licence as expected. I also asked Mr L if 
hed been able to contact the merchant as Lloyds had previously suggested.
Mr L responded to say that he definitely renewed his licence in early June and that he 
couldnt think what else the verification code could have been for. He explained that what 
happened to him is the same as what other people have reported on online review websites. 
Mr L explained he could still remember the website. He said that when he got to the stage to 
confirm to proceed, he saw a message saying no change for this service so went ahead. 
When bank and card details popped up, he assumed it was a verification check. Mr L added 
that he needed his driving licence, so it appeared like he had no other choice but to 
continue. He agreed he had entered his card details, but only because the message saying 
he would not be charged for this service came up more than once. 
Mr L had not been able to trace the merchant. He said that hed asked his MP to take it up 
on his behalf. Mr L explained that whatever website he used had looked the same as the 
official one and he had no idea how he came to be using it.
He concluded by saying that the bank staff hed spoken to were very dismissive and had not 
heard of the Government Gateway. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In cases such as this one when it is not clear exactly what happened or how, I base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence.Having considered everything thats been said and provided, there is no basis on which I can 
fairly and reasonably require Lloyds to refund Mr L. I know this is not the outcome he was 
hoping for, so I will explain why.
Millions of card payments are made each day and most of those transactions are problem 
free. But there are occasions where an account holder may need to query a transaction 
applied to their account, perhaps if they dont recognise it or if they think something has 
gone wrong. 
There are websites which charge for what would otherwise be a free service. They are 
positioned as a checking service to help people with administration when making 
applications for official documentation. As a Financial Ombudsman, I am limited to 
considering the actions and responsibilities of Lloyds. I am unable to make any specific 
determination as to the validity of the service that these websites offer. 
From what Mr L has said, its clear he would not have willingly opted to pay for a service he 
could obtain free of charge from the DVLA. But Lloyds is not obliged to automatically refund 
a card payment because a customer suspects they have been tricked. When an account 
holder raises concerns about transactions made using a card, Id expect the bank to look 
into the situation to see whether it has any responsibility for refunding the amount in dispute. 
It may need to provide a refund if its customer didnt authorise the transaction, or if it didnt 
intervene in the payment to check it was one its customer wanted to make when it ought 
fairly to have done so. In some circumstances, a card issuer can ask for a transaction its 
customer made to be refunded through the chargeback process.
Mr L contacted Lloyds as soon as he noticed the unexpected payment on his statement. As 
Mr L paid using his debit card and wanted a refund, Ive thought about whether Lloyds dealt 
with that request fairly. 
Did Mr L authorise the transaction? 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process transactions 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the relevant Payment Services 
Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account.
The relevant rules on what defines an authorised or unauthorised transaction are set out in 
the Payment Services Regulations 2018 (PSRs). Broadly they say Lloyds would only be 
required to refund Mr L if he didnt make or authorise the disputed transaction himself. 
Consenting to a transaction under the PSRs isnt the same as Mr L knowing precisely who 
was charging him and the amount being charged. By using his payment tools which then 
instruct the bank to make the payment, the relevant rules say he can be said to have 
authorised it, even if he was tricked.
So Ive first thought about whether Mr L made the transaction himself. If he did, then it is 
unlikely to be fair to ask Lloyds to refund it. 
Its not been possible to identify with any certainty exactly which website Mr L used, although 
I consider it safe to conclude that he unwittingly used one charging a fee for its services. 
Mr L does not dispute that he entered his card details into the website when prompted. The 
banks records show the payment was authenticated using the card number, the expiry date 
and the three-digit security code from the cards reverse.Mr L has explained he did this because he assumed it was a verification step that he couldnt 
avoid. I cannot be sure exactly what information was presented to Mr L at the time or how it 
would have appeared on the screen. But from my own research into websites offering 
assistance with driving licence applications, I did not see any website where it completely 
obscured the fact that a payment was being made. The websites I have seen all made some 
mention of a charge, even if that information is not particularly prominent. Whilst I cannot be 
certain that the information provided to Mr L was the same, on balance, I think its more likely 
than not that a charge was mentioned. 
The relevant rules say that Mr L does not need to be fully aware of all of the details of a 
payment in order to consent to the execution of a payment transaction. On balance, by 
completing the steps required to make a payment himself, Mr Ls actions meet the 
requirements for Lloyds to be able to treat the payment as technically being authorised by 
him. 
Should Lloyds have been concerned about the payment instruction? 
Ive thought about whether Lloyds ought to have identified that Mr L was at risk of financial 
harm from fraud and intervened before allowing the payment to go through. But Im not 
persuaded the transaction was so unusual and out of character that Lloyds should have 
immediately suspected Mr L was potentially at risk. There are many millions of card 
payments made each day and it would not be possible or reasonable to expect a payment 
services provider to check each one. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any 
concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. 
Looking at all of the circumstances here, I dont think I can fairly criticise Lloyds for not 
intervening at the time the disputed transaction was made. The payment of £80 that was 
being made using his card details would have appeared unremarkable. This means that 
I cant fairly say that Lloyds should have done more to challenge it and ensure that it was 
one Mr L genuinely wanted to make before processing it. 
Should Lloyds have tried to recover the money using a chargeback? 
Ive gone on to think about whether Lloyds should have raised a chargeback. A chargeback 
is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and 
merchants, under the card scheme rules. What this means is that Lloyds can, in certain 
circumstances, ask the card scheme, in this case Visa, to consider whether a payment made 
using card details should be refunded. A chargeback is not guaranteed to result in a positive 
outcome, but it's possible that attempting a chargeback would have uncovered more 
information about the merchant Mr L paid. But theres no legal right to a chargeback and 
theres no specific requirement on Lloyds to raise one. I consider it good practice for Lloyds 
to raise a chargeback if theres a reasonable prospect of it being successful. 
The card scheme rules explain the various reasons that a card issuer can attempt to 
chargeback but typically those reasons require documentary evidence to be submitted to 
support a potential claim. To raise a claim for a potential misrepresentation, Mr L would need 
to show that hed attempted to resolve the issue directly with the merchant first. Mr L was not 
able to trace the merchant and so had no supporting evidence to put forward. 
He also couldnt provide anything to show the website said card details would only be used 
for verification and not for a payment. This placed Mr L in a very difficult position, but it does 
mean that any potential chargeback claim would have been weak and did not have any 
reasonable prospect of being successful. Against this backdrop, I dont think Lloyds acted 
unreasonably in not attempting a chargeback. Did the bank do enough to help Mr L?
Mr L has said that the banks staff were dismissive of his concerns. He pointed out that the 
first person he spoke to said it wasnt fraud because hed received his driving licence and the 
second person said it wasnt a misrepresentation. Mr L gave the bank the link to the online 
review website hed found and was surprised Lloyds did not try to do more to prevent other 
people from losing out in the same way that he did. I appreciate Mr Ls sentiments in this 
regard. But for the reasons I have explained above, there were only very limited steps the 
bank could take to assist. The bank would not have been to make any determination on the 
validity of the website, nor would it be able to able to prevent it from operating going 
forwards.
From what I have seen, Lloyds did what it could by exploring whether it had any 
responsibility to refund the amount in dispute to Mr L and I do not consider that it acted 
unfairly or made a mistake when it concluded that it did not. 
Overall
Mr L has my considerable sympathies. Its clear that the service he paid for added no value 
for him so I can understand why he feels vexed that hes ended up out of pocket 
unnecessarily. But since Lloyds did not make any error by processing the card payment and 
there are unfortunately no other recovery options available in these circumstances, I cannot 
fairly say Lloyds has any responsibility for refunding the loss.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman