DRN-1661455
The complaint
Mr R complained that Alwyn Insurance Company Limited wouldnt pay his theft claim under 
his motorcycle insurance policy
What happened
Mr Rs motorcycle was stolen but Alwyn wouldnt pay his claim. They said hed failed to meet 
the policy conditions about his motorcycles security and so their policy exclusion about that 
applied. Mr R accepted that he hadnt used the security devices the policy required. But he 
said the exclusion shouldnt apply because his motorcycle wasnt unattended. He said he 
was in a friends first floor flat and his motorcycle was parked where it could be seen from 
the window. He said his friend saw the thieves interfere with his motorcycle and Mr R 
challenged them and went outside but the thieves broke the steering lock and towed it away. 
So Mr R felt that he had complied with the policy requirements. Alternatively he felt that that 
the meaning of unattended  in the policy exclusion was not clear and so it was unfair for 
Alwyn to rely on it. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Alwyn had acted reasonably and in line with Mr Rs policy terms. Mr R remained dissatisfied 
and so his case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the recording of the call when Mr R reported the theft. He said hed secured 
his motorcycle with a steering lock, and it also had a factory fitted immobiliser. But Alwyn 
declined the claim because it wasnt secured with a D-lock , disc lock, grip Lock or armoured 
chain. They said these were their clearly stated policy security requirements. 
Ive looked at Mr Rs policy which says on page 5 in Exclusion 2a that it doesnt cover 
motorcycle loss from theft while the motorcycle was unattended( including while at your 
home or its other normal place of garaging) without being secured by the security devices 
fitted to and carried on it and by any other security specified in the schedule or by 
endorsement.
Mr Rs policy schedule says: 
Vehicle Security
Whenever your bike is left unattended (including while in a locked garage) cover against 
theft will only apply if the bike is secured as specified in the endorsement(s) below. As a 
minimum this will be one of at least a disc lock, D-lock, grip lock or armoured chain, plus any 
other lock on the bike (eg the steering lock).
The endorsement below states:
L3: With reference to Exclusions 2a of Cover sections 1 and 2, the security required to cover
to apply to loss or damage by theft or attempted theft is as follows. If all this security is not in
operation when the insured motorcycle is left unattended (including while in a garage), such 
cover will not apply.
1. A D-lock, disc lock, Grip lock or lockable armoured chain; plus
2. Any other security device fitted to or carried on the insured motorcycle; plus
3. Any other measure as specified in any endorsement.
The security obligations and cover exclusion are also in the statement of facts, and the 
Insurance Product Information Document.
So I think that Alwyn made it clear to Mr R that cover for theft was excluded unless his 
motorcycle was secured with a D-lock, Disc lock, Grip Lock or armoured chain if it was left 
unattended. 
Ive also listened to the recording of the call when Mr R renewed his policy. The agent clearly 
tells Mr R that if the motorcycle is stolen and its not secured with a D-lock, disc lock, Grip 
lock or lockable armoured chain, that can invalidate a claim. Mr R bought the policy. And so 
Im satisfied this requirement was drawn to his attention when the policy was sold.
Mr R accepts that when the bike was stolen it didnt have the policys required security 
requirements. But he said his bike was not unattended, so the exclusion didnt apply. 
Alternatively, he said that because the policy didnt define unattended, he couldnt have been 
expected to know what that meant, and so it wasnt fair for Alwyn to rely on the exclusion.
The investigator explained the approach we take. We look at where a vehicle was when it 
was stolen and whether the driver was in a position to deter the thief or make a theft unlikely 
to take place. Mr R says that he was able to see his motorcycle from his friend flats window,  
it was constantly in his sight, and he tried to stop the theft it but was too late. But, in the  
recording of Mr Rs call reporting the theft, he said that his friend heard something, looked 
out of the window and saw the thieves at Mr Rs motorcycle , and told Mr R. So I dont think 
that Mr R was then close to the motorcycle or was in a position to intervene or deter the 
thief. He was indoors, upstairs and was visiting his friend. I dont think that it would be fair or 
reasonable to treat that as him attending his motorcycle. 
Mr R also says that Alwyn didnt define unattended in their policy so he couldnt be expected 
to know what it meant . And as that was unclear, the exclusion shouldnt be used against 
him. He said hed looked up another insurers definition of unattended. But, as the 
investigator explained, its not reasonable to look at what another insurer says. Mr R took out 
a policy with Alwyn, and its their terms that apply to him, not that of another insurer. I dont 
think his motorcycle was attended at the time of the theft. I think that it was unattended and 
so the security measures that were clearly stated in the policy should have been used. And 
so I think that Alwyn were entitled to reject his claim. 
I think Mr R having his bike stolen was a very unfortunate event and I do understand why he 
is upset by it and by Alwyns decision . But I have to look at whether Alwyn have done 
anything wrong, and for the reasons Ive said above, I dont think that they have. This means 
that I dont ask them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive discussed above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
