DRN-3654389
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc denied his claim for compensation 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar 
panels.
Background
In 2011 Mr C bought some solar panels for his home. In 2022 he complained to NatWest 
that the panels had been misrepresented to him by the supplier, and asked to be 
compensated.
NatWest denied his claim. One of the reasons it gave for doing so was that it could find no 
evidence that Mr C had paid for the solar panels with a NatWest credit card, and 
consequently section 75 would not apply to his purchase.
Mr C brought this complaint to our service. Our adjudicator asked him for evidence that he 
had paid with a NatWest credit card, but when no such evidence was forthcoming he agreed 
that NatWest had been entitled to deny Mr Cs claim.
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He provided some links to negative 
reviews about the supplier, but he did not address the manner of payment or the applicability 
of section 75. His complaint has since been referred to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I would not usually consider it to be fair or reasonable to hold someone liable for something 
somebody else did. So I would not think it fair to hold NatWest responsible for anything the 
supplier of Mr Cs solar panels did wrong at the point of sale.
There are a couple of exceptions to this. One of them is section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act, which  where it applies  makes the provider of credit liable for any misrepresentation 
of breach of contract by the supplier of goods or services paid for with the credit provided. 
Another is the chargeback scheme operated by credit card providers. But since Mr C has 
been unable to show that he bought the panels with a NatWest credit card, neither of these 
assists him.
NatWest can find no trace of Mr C ever having had a credit card account with it. That could 
of course just be because he closed the account more than six years ago, and that the bank 
does not keep records for that long. But I think it is fair to put the onus on Mr C to show that 
he did have such an account and that he used it to buy the panels.
Mr C did send us a copy of a receipt for a card payment he made in February 2022. This 
was not for the original purchase but for a replacement inverter. The receipt does not 
indicate what kind of card was used or which bank issued it, but even if that was a NatWest 
credit card, it is the original purchase which matters and not the subsequent one. Buying a 
new inverter with a NatWest card would not make NatWest liable for any misrepresentation 
that might have been made about the old inverter, or for the fact that Mr C found himself in 
the position of having to buy a replacement one eleven years later.
Our adjudicator explained this to Mr C in July, but Mr C did not provide any further evidence 
that he ever had a credit card with NatWest or that he paid for the panels with credit at all. 
Presumably he would have provided such evidence if he had it, so I infer that he does not. 
I am therefore of the view that there is no fair basis on which I could find that NatWest owes 
him any compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman