DRN-3656743
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt do enough to protect him when 
he fell victim to a scam and hasnt reimbursed his losses.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although Ive only set out the key points, Ive read 
and considered whats been provided in full. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. But as Mr E 
authorised the payments, made by a combination of faster payments and card 
payments, the starting position  in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
 is that hes liable for the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect Santander to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In 
some circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional 
checks before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold Santander liable.
In this case, Santander did intervene. It intervened with the first payment, for £7,500 
on 8 June 2021. But Mr E proceeded with the payment following this. He also made 
further payments over the next couple of days before realising hed been the victim of 
a scam. So, the question here is whether Santanders intervention was sufficient or 
whether it should have done more to protect Mr E.
Having listened to the telephone conversations, overall, Im relatively satisfied with 
Santanders intervention. But, crucially, Im not persuaded that any further 
intervention from Santander would have resulted in a different outcome. I must 
consider here that neither party would have actually known at the time that Mr Es 
payments were being made to a fraudster  but Id expect sufficient questioning to 
disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or scam. Its clear from the calls Ive heard that 
Mr E was confident, and insistent, that he wanted to proceed with the payment, 
despite attempts to warn him about scams surrounding cryptocurrency. And it 
appears that he was saying what he needed to in order to convince Santander to 
process the payment.
I say the above because Mr E initially stated he hadnt been pressured into making 
the payment and that hed opened the account entirely by himself. But, on further 
questioning from Santander, he admitted the payment had been requested by 
someone else, though Mr E then assured Santander that this person was a relative. 
Mr E still wished to proceed so Santander encouraged Mr E to do some further 
research and arranged to call back later. Later, Mr E said that hed done his research 
and was confident and happy to proceed. He also said hed made payments 
previously and withdrawn them. 
By the last call on 8 June 2021, Mr E expressed his dissatisfaction with the difficulties 
hed had in making the payment. He was unhappy to the extent that he wanted to 
withdraw all of his money from his Santander account. You keep blocking me. And I 
cant even touch my money. Who are you to decide what I can do, where I can with 
all due respect, do your security checks, give me the warning, do everything. If I tell 
you it's fully my responsibility, thats recorded, just write it down there as well  what 
else do you want? 
Im persuaded that Mr E had been manipulated into making these payments as part 
of a sophisticated scam. Despite warnings from Santander which resulted in Mr E 
saying Youre scaring me now, he was adamant he wanted to make the payments. 
And because of Santanders delays in doing this, he raised a complaint. So, I dont 
think Mr E would have responded positively to further attempts from Santander to 
protect him. I think its important to reiterate here that Santander didnt know at the 
time that Mr E had fallen victim to a scam. I also note that it appears Mr E was willing 
to mislead Santander in order to get the payment through  it doesnt seem that Mr E 
was dealing with a relative or that hed made payments previously that hed then 
withdrawn.
So, based on everything Ive seen and heard, I think its likely that Mr E would have 
proceeded to make the payments regardless of any reasonable attempts by 
Santander to intervene. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover the 
funds after Mr E reported the fraud. However, the payments were all made to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. So, it would have been very unlikely that a 
chargeback for the payments made by debit card would have been successful, as the 
service  i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency  was provided by the merchant. 
Similarly, with the faster payments, the service of providing cryptocurrency had been 
provided. So, I dont think Santander could have recovered any of the disputed 
payments.
So, while Im sorry that Mr E has been the victim of a scam, I dont think it would be fair to 
hold Santander liable in this case. And I dont think attempts to recover the losses would 
ultimately have been successful. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman