DRN-2041254
The complaint
Miss T complains that the car she acquired through finance supplied by PSA Finance UK 
Limited (PSA) was misrepresented and did not have the specification she wanted or was 
expecting.
Miss T is represented by her partner in this complaint but as Miss Ts name is on the finance 
agreement, I will refer to Miss T in this decision. 
What happened
Miss T explains that she placed an order for a new car in September 2019. Miss T 
researched the specification of the car on the manufacturers website and ordered a model 
C5 Aircross 130 Flair Plus. Miss T said that this model had a wireless smartphone charging 
plate as standard. When the car was delivered in November 2019 this feature was not 
present because the manufacturer had removed it from the specification of this model in 
October after Miss T had ordered it.
PSA said that the model that was supplied to Miss T was the model that was ordered. It said 
it was not responsible for the change in the specification and the car that was delivered was 
the car that was ordered.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They thought 
that because PSA didnt supply the information about the specification of the car to Miss T 
and because the car that has been supplied is the model ordered (albeit with a different 
specification) PSA hasnt done anything wrong.
Miss T didnt agree, and her representative said that the year of manufacture isnt on the 
agreement which would have highlighted the problem. Miss T asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induces a consumer to enter into an 
agreement. Miss T explains that she did not contact the broker who arranged the finance or 
the dealership and relied on the information on the manufacturers website about the 
features of the car before deciding which model to order.
The manufacturer is a separate company to both the finance broker and the dealership that 
supplied the car. I have seen the information Miss T has supplied from the website which 
confirms that the earlier model of the car had the wireless charger. 
The manufacturers website also contains the following disclaimer, Note: Images and 
specification descriptions are dependent on trim level and options specified. Every 
endeavour has been made to ensure that the information and details contained in this 
brochure were accurate at the time of going to press. However, the company reserves the 
right, whilst preserving the essential characteristics of the models described, to introduce at 
any time modifications, changes of details, equipment or accessories. Every effort will be 
made to bring this brochure up to date, but in order to avoid any misunderstanding please 
consult your Dealer.
In order to uphold this complaint  which is against PSA  Id have to think that it had made 
a false representation which induced Miss T to enter into the agreement. PSA didnt make 
any representation to Miss T. PSA isnt responsible for the information on the manufacturers 
website and the information Ive been given suggests that the statements about the vehicle 
specification and accessories were subject to warnings that they could change, and advice 
should be obtained from a dealer. Even if the website did amount to a false statement, and I 
am not finding that it did, PSA would still not be responsible. 
Miss T didnt confirm with the dealer whether the specification had changed. Miss T didnt 
stipulate on the order form that the car was required to have a wireless charging plate. I 
would like to be clear that I am not criticising Miss T for not doing these things, I can fully 
understand why it would not have occurred to her to do so. But the website explains the 
possibility that the model specification may be different to that explained in the brochure and 
to contact the dealer to avoid any misunderstanding about what was included.
The model that was supplied was the model that was ordered, although it has a different 
specification to the one Miss T was expecting. Although there is no year of manufacture 
specified on the contract, it is implied that as a new build it will be to the current specification.
I sympathise with the frustration and upset caused to Miss T and I can appreciate that my 
decision will likely be a disappointment. But on the information, I have I cant say that PSA 
has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman