DRN-3245637
The complaint
Mr M says the charges TSB Bank plc (TSB) applied to his bank account caused him 
financial difficulty and that TSB failed to inform him that entering into a repayment plan would 
be reflected in his credit file. 
What happened
Mr M complained to TSB about the charges applied to his account and for failing to inform 
him that entering a repayment plan could affect his credit file. TSB said the charges were 
applied in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account and that no error had been 
made. But as TSB werent able to confirm whether Mr M had been told that entering a debt 
repayment plan could affect his credit file it offered Mr M £30 for distress and inconvenience 
and £130 refund of charges  which Mr M rejected. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that TSB 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and thought TSBs offer of 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Why I cant look at charges applied before January 2015
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr M raised his complaint in 2021. Six years before he raised his complaint is 2015. And as 
the charges applied to his bank account wouldve been notified to Mr M at the time they were 
being applied, I think he ought to have known enough to decide whether they were unfair or 
causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when Mr M ought to be 
reasonably aware he had reason to complaint provides him with a longer period than the six 
year rule. So, I will only be looking at charges applied from January 2015.
I can still look into Mr Ms complaint outside this time if Im satisfied the failure to complain 
earlier was due to exceptional circumstances, but as Mr M hasnt made me aware of any 
exceptional circumstances so I will only be looking at his account activity from January 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr M has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts TSB charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at TSBs various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ms account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr M was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Mr M fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that TSB did treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say 
this because having looked at Mr Ms statements I cant see anything to suggest that TSB 
ought to have realised Mr M might have been experiencing financial difficulties prior to it 
being notified of this in 2017. 
Mr Ms statements show that his account was mainly in credit. And although at times there 
wasnt enough money in his account to cover some direct debits which triggered a returned 
direct debit fee, this I think was more likely due to mismanagement of his account rather than 
financial difficulties, as his statements show there were significant amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. I accept this doesnt necessarily 
mean that Mr M wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these 
transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted TSB to any potential financial 
difficulty prior to Mr M notifying it of this in 2017.
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Ms account 
was being used. 
However, once Mr M did make TSB aware of his financial difficulties TSB took action and 
arranged a temporary overdraft and debt repayment plan for Mr M to allow him to clear his 
arrears. Mr M says TSB failed to inform him that the repayment plan would be reflected on 
his credit file and if hed known about this he wouldve closed his account instead. 
But if Mr M had chosen to close his account it wouldve been closed with an outstanding 
debt which wouldve also been reported on his credit file as TSB has a duty to make sure the 
information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to 
is factually accurate. So either way how Mr M was managing his financial affairs was going 
to be reported and I cant say that entering into a repayment plan wasnt the best option for 
Mr M at the time when it allowed Mr M to clear his arrears without suffering further charges. 
I accept that best practise would be for TSB to inform Mr M before he enters into any new 
financial arrangement that this information would be reported on his credit file  and that 
TSB hasnt been able to confirm this happened here. But in-light of this TSB offered Mr M 
£30 compensation and a further £130 refund of charges which I think is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. And I dont think that TSB treated Mr M unfairly or 
unreasonably as it took what I consider appropriate action when Mr M informed it he was in 
financial difficulty and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint and Im not asking TSB Bank plc to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman