DRN-2316598
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his joint bank account 
without his authority.
What happened
Mr D had a joint bank account with his wife and due to a marital dispute, his wife placed a no 
operations marker on the bank account. Despite this Mr D says that NatWest allowed the 
account to be closed without his authority and are unable to provide him with any supporting 
documentation to show who authorised its closure. Mr D wished for the bank account to be 
reinstated, compensation to be paid and sight of the documentation authorising the account 
closure. 
NatWest have accepted they made an error in allowing the account to be closed without Mr 
Ds authority and have apologised for their mistake. NatWest says when the joint bank 
account was closed it was overdrawn by a small sum and the member of staff believed 
incorrectly, the person who gave the instruction to place the operational marker could also 
close the account. NatWest says they are unable to trace the account closure 
documentation.
Mr D was unhappy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld Mr Ds complaint. He said 
NatWest made an error in closing the joint account without his authority, and even though 
there was no financial disadvantage to Mr D, NatWest should pay him £100 for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Mr D was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand that it would be frustrating for Mr D to learn that despite a no operations 
marker being placed on the joint bank account with his wife, NatWest allowed the account to 
be closed. 
Mr D feels this shouldnt have happened and wants sight of the documentation showing who 
gave this authority. Mr D has questioned if forged documents had been presented or if a 
member of staff had simply ignored the account restriction. 
From the information provided to me, what happened here was Mr Ds wife advised NatWest 
of a marital dispute and requested a no operations marker on the account. Subsequently Mr 
Ds wife went into the branch a few weeks later and closed the account depositing a small 
sum to clear the outstanding balance. NatWest have accepted that the member of staff had 
made an error here and rather than ignoring the account restriction, as Mr D suggests, the 
member of staff simply thought that the same person placing the restriction on the joint bank 
account, could also remove it and close the joint bank account. NatWest have told Mr D they 
cant reinstate the joint bank account and I am satisfied that even though an error was made 
in its closure, it would not now be possible to do this. If Mr D wishes to speak with NatWest 
to discuss a new bank account, then he is free to do so. 
I understand Mr Ds frustration and the point he makes but the fact of the matter here is that 
NatWest cannot locate the account closure documentation. I am satisfied, on balance, this is 
a case of NatWest misplacing the documentation. NatWest  have said that Mr Ds wife came 
into the branch to close the account and they have accepted that this was a mistake on their 
part. While Mr D may disagree, I am satisfied there wasnt forged documentation, but 
unfortunately a mistake made by a member of staff here, whom feedback has been given 
about the process. 
NatWest have apologised and have now agreed to pay £100 in compensation for the 
mistakes they have made here. While Mr D may not agree, its not my role to punish banks 
or to tell them to discipline their staff, but to ensure NatWest, like all banks, adequately 
compensate customers when errors are made. While Mr D says he has been 
inconvenienced in having to set up the direct debits and other payments, I cant see that he 
has been financially disadvantaged as a result of the joint bank account being closed. 
I know that Mr D will be disappointed with my decision and while I uphold the complaint,  I 
am satisfied the compensation suggested by the investigator is sufficient. 
Putting things right
I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr D £100 in compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct National Westminster Bank Plc 
to pay Mr D £100 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman