DRN-3517943
The complaint
Mr W complains Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) applied a late payment marker on his 
credit file after failing to collect a direct debit payment. 
What happened
Mr W says in early February 2022, he set up online a direct debit to pay £100 to his credit 
card each month. Mr W says the next payment to his credit card wasnt due for a few weeks 
and although he had given plenty of time for this to have been set up, Sainsburys failed to 
do so. Mr W says this  resulted in his February 2022 monthly payment being missed, 
incurring a £12 late payment fee and Sainsburys registering a late payment marker on his 
credit file. Mr W says while Sainsburys offered to refund the late payment fee, it refused to 
remove the late payment marker from his credit file. Mr W feels this is unfair and wants 
Sainsburys to remove the late payment marker. 
Sainsburys says that Mr W was informed at the time of setting up the direct debit, he 
needed to arrange a different payment method for that month and his credit card statement 
also informed him a payment was due by 22 February 2022. While as a gesture of goodwill 
Sainsburys says it agreed to refund the late payment fee, it wasnt able to remove the late 
payment marker as it hadnt made any errors and it was obliged to show a true reflection on 
Mr Ws credit file, of how he managed his credit card account.
Mr W wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Sainsburys had made clear to Mr W when he set up the direct debit, that he 
would need to make an alternative method of payment for February 2022. The investigator 
also pointed out when the direct debit was set up by Mr W, this was for the minimum monthly 
payment and not a fixed £100 as he had thought. As a result, the investigator says she 
couldnt ask Sainsburys to remove the late payment marker, as it had a responsibility to 
provide credit agencies with a true reflection of the credit card account activity. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr W to discover the direct debit he had 
set up with Sainsburys hadnt been collected as he thought, resulting in a late payment fee 
and respective marker to his credit file. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Sainsburys made any errors in setting up Mr 
Ws direct debit resulting in it not being collected in February 2022, and if it was fair for it to 
then subsequently mark a late payment on his credit file. 
Mr W has two parts to his complaint, firstly the direct debit he set up online in early February 
2022 should have been for a fixed sum per month of £100, not the minimum payment and 
that Sainsburys failed to set up the direct debit in time for that month, which has resulted in 
late payment fees and a marker on his credit file. 
While I can understand Mr W feels strongly about this matter, I cant say Im fully persuaded 
by his argument that Sainsburys were at fault for not only setting up the direct debit for the 
wrong amount, it also failed to collect the direct debit even though he had given them more 
than sufficient time to do so. I say this because, Sainsburys have provided this service with 
various documentation, amongst which is an example of the screen shot of the direct debit 
instruction, showing Mr W had set up his direct debit to pay the minimum monthly payment 
each month. But in any event this would have had little bearing on the main part of Mr Ws 
complaint, concerning the payment not being collected and the issues that followed. 
From the information presented to this service, Mr W would have seen at the time he set up 
the direct debit in early February 2022, an on-screen message stating the following:
 please bear in mind that youll need to use a different payment method. The Direct Debit 
will be ready for your next statement, and youll see details of it within the payment section of 
your statement.
While Mr W says he has no recollection of this, given this is the standard message all 
Sainsburys customers receive when setting up direct debits, on balance and in all likelihood, 
Im satisfied that message would have been visible to Mr W at that time. 
Its also worth mentioning that in Mr Ws credit card statement dated 28 January 2022, it 
shows a minimum payment of £11.80 was due by 22 February 2022. With this in mind and 
given the notice referred to above, stating he needed to make a different payment method as 
the direct debit would only be ready for his next monthly statement, that should have alerted 
Mr W he needed to make an alternative payment method for that month. 
I have also seen a copy of the direct debit confirmation sent by Sainsburys on 7 February 
2022 which under What Happens Next, it goes on to say Your monthly credit card 
statement will tell you the Direct Debit amount due and the date we'll collect your payment. 
So here, it is saying Mr W will be told in his next credit card statement when the direct debit 
will be collected, and bearing in mind his current credit card statement at that time, stated 
there was no direct debit to be collected, Im satisfied this confirms the direct debit wouldnt 
be collected in February 2022.
While I understand Mr W may not agree and feels strongly about this matter, its reasonable 
to say it was his responsibility to ensure the due monthly payment was made on time, or at 
least to query this with Sainsburys, if he was unsure. 
So, taking this all into account, I cant tell Sainsburys it must remove the late payment 
marker on his credit file, as it has made no error here. 
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Sainsburys 
other than to ask it to refund the £12 late payment fee that it agreed to if it hasnt already, as 
Mr W has informed this service he cant see it has been refunded. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman