DRN-3785518
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain through their representative (TM) that First Holiday Finance Ltd 
(FHF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with their complaint under Sections 75 or 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of holiday products purchased in April 2011 and 
on 21 July 2011.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A attended a meeting with the supplier, C, in April 2011. They bought a 
timeshare product which consisted of a trial allocation of points. Later, on 21 July 2011, they 
upgraded their membership and bought a further allocation of points, which could be 
exchanged for holidays. They believe they were mis-sold the product in that C 
misrepresented to them and they were misled about availability, exclusivity, rising 
maintenance fees and that they were subjected to high pressure sales tactics, and that 
C never delivered what we wanted. There was no cooling off period. TM later made further 
allegations that the loan had been sold irresponsibly, that Mr and Mrs A hadnt been told 
about the payment of commission. A complaint was made directly to C as well as to FHF.
FHF advised that C denied that there was any pressure to purchase or that any 
misrepresentations were made. It also said that Mr and Mrs A were able to enjoy the 
benefits of membership at any time.
Our investigator said that in respect of a claim under s75 the cause of action arose in April 
2011 (and 21 July 2011), but Mr and Mrs A didnt raise their claim with C until 17 August 
2017. So it was out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). He also considered the 
complaints under s140A and whether any of the issues would have created an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs A and FHF. These included the allegations of 
misrepresentations, pressure selling, and failure to disclose commission earned. He also 
considered the allegation of unaffordable lending. But he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld in respect of any of those issues.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree, and the matter was passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
claim under s75 CCA
A claim for misrepresentation against C would ordinarily be made under Section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors
[2012] that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded in tort for the purposes
of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of
action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr and Mrs A made a like claim against FHF under s75 CCA and the limitation period for 
that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. This means that they had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs A entered 
into the purchase and/or credit agreements. I say this because they entered into the 
purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of C  which they say they 
relied on. And as the finance from FHF was used to help pay for the purchase, it was when 
they entered into the credit agreements that they suffered a loss.
Mr and Mrs A entered into the initial purchase agreement with C in April 2011, and a further 
agreement on 21 July 2011. They didnt assert any claim to FHF until 17 August 2017. So as 
FHF would have a defence to any such claim under the LA, I think it fair that it didnt 
consider this complaint.
TM has referred to s32 of LA which can postpone the limitation period in the case of fraud, 
concealment, or mistake. I dont think that any of that applies here. None of the allegations 
made show there was fraud, concealment, or mistake. Ill deal with the allegation of 
concealment of commission below.
s140A CCA unfair relationship
This section is a relevant consideration on this occasion. And with that being the case, Ive 
considered Mr and Mrs As concerns with that provision in mind. Only a court can make an 
order under this section, but I can take into account whether it would be likely that the court 
would make such an order.
Mr and Mrs A argue that the sale of the holiday points was misrepresented to them. A 
misrepresentation in law is a statement of fact or law made by one party to a contract to the 
other that:
isnt true; and
induces the person to whom its made into the contract.
Having not been present at the sale in April or July 2011, it isnt possible for me to determine 
with certainty what Mr and Mrs A were or werent told by C. But in the end, the part their 
testimony plays here comes down to how much it can be relied on. And neither Mr nor Mrs A 
have set out in any detail what was said and by whom, such that Im persuaded that there 
were representations by C that, being likely to be untrue, induced them into the contract. 
As I understand it Mr and Mrs A initially bought a trial membership then full membership. I 
havent seen any evidence that they even attempted to make any kind of holiday booking. If 
they werent able to use even the trial membership then its difficult to understand why they 
went ahead and bought the full membership. Without any evidence that they were unable to 
use the points they bought I cant say that it wasnt of any benefit to them. Its also difficult to 
understand why they didnt take any action to complain until some years later. When they 
made a claim to FHF in 2017, it referred the matter to C who reiterated that they were still 
entitled to use the points as members of the vacation club.
So whilst I understand that the sales presentation attended by Mr and Mrs A may have been 
used to extol the virtues of the product in question, I cant say that its more likely than not 
that there was a factual and material misrepresentation by C. pressure selling
Again, this is something Mr and Mrs A havent elaborated upon. I acknowledge that the 
benefits of membership may have been be extolled by C. But as Mr and Mrs A havent told 
us about or produced any other evidence of what was said and/or done that amounted to 
pressure selling, I think its unlikely that a court would find an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship for this reason
breach of contract - rising maintenance fees
In its amended claim, TM alleged that there was a breach of the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999 (the UTCCR) because the consumers didnt have any control 
over how the annual management charges were calculated.
I accept that the method of calculation of the maintenance fees, including their amount and 
the scope of what may fall within them is difficult to understand for members who do not 
appear to have any say over the matter. I also recognise that the way in which the fees are 
calculated has a compounding effect given the long-term nature of the contract. This could 
undoubtedly expose a consumer to arbitrary and unwarranted maintenance fees over which 
they have no say. I also accept that its possible that Mr and Mrs A didnt have  the chance to 
read and take in all of the rules that govern their membership before agreeing to purchase. 
However, while the fees did rise each year, I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs A 
have been exposed to large and unexpected charges. They havent shown us that C made 
any representations about the membership fees before they signed the contract. Nor have 
they shown us any evidence that the membership fees increased by an unreasonable or 
unaffordable amount.
And should Mr and Mrs A have thought the charges were becoming unreasonable or 
unaffordable for them, they could exit their membership at any time, by paying the fee that 
fell due on the year of exit. Whats more, as the main benefits of Mr and Mrs As membership 
were limited to their holiday rights, Im not persuaded its likely that a court would find an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship for this reason. 
Wilson v Link Financial
TM asserts that this case applies to Mr and Mrs As complaint. It involved a term whereby 
the supplier of the timeshare will extinguish the consumers rights in the timeshare for non-
payment of commission. The court in that case found the term to be unfair. However as I 
understand it Mr and Mrs As membership has been suspended, not extinguished, because 
of their refusal to pay maintenance fees, not connected to any financial difficulties. 
Under the rules set out in Cs Articles of Association at the time the contract was signed, I 
agree that there was potential for unfairness in that Mr and Mrs As membership could have 
been withdrawn for failure to pay fees. However that position was altered in December 2015, 
when Cs articles were amended. And as a result Im persuaded that a membership can be 
suspended but fees will not continue to accrue. That appears to be the position here, so I 
dont think, in the circumstances that its likely that a Court would find there to be an unfair 
debtor creditor relationship as a result of this. 
failure to disclose commission
As I understand it, FHF has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with information 
that confirms that it didnt pay any commission. And as I havent seen any evidence to indicate that it did pay commission, Im not persuaded its likely that a court would find an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship for this reason as a result.
unaffordability and sale of the loan
T says that C failed to advise Mr and Mrs A on the terms of the loan and that no proper 
checks were done to determine whether they could afford it. But little else has been said in 
relation to this allegation. And based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded the loan was 
unaffordable for them.
overall
Any claim that Mr and Mrs A assert under s75 CCA looks likely to be out of time under the 
LA  giving FHF a defence to that claim. And I dont think that, in respect of the mis-selling 
allegations, a court would determine that there was an unfair relationship.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman