DRN-3413794
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in March 2022 that I summarise below.
Mr A was given a loan of £250 by Loans2Go in January 2021. This was due to be repaid in 
18 monthly instalments of around £57. The total amount payable, including interest, was just 
over £1,028. I understand the loan remains outstanding.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Loans2Go needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure.  I said that Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't 
lend to Mr A irresponsibly. And that the lender should have carried out proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that he could repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Id seen about this matter 
in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Loans2Go carried out some checks before it lent to Mr A. This included asking Mr A for his 
income and expenditure and acquiring a credit check from a third party.
From what Id seen, Mr A was in an IVA when he took his loan from Loans2Go. The IVA 
dated from 2016 and was due to expire in November 2021. Mr A thinks that Loans2Go 
should have discovered his IVA in its checks and that if it had done so, it would not have lent 
to him. He thinks it was irresponsible for Loans2Go to lend to him whilst he was in an IVA.
As far as I understand, Mr A did not tell Loans2Go about his IVA when he applied for his 
loan. The summary of the information gathered by Loans2Go at the time included Mr As 
credit report provided by a third party. The report is quite detailed, but Mr As IVA does not 
appear. Its not clear why his IVA did not show up on the report as so much other information 
has been included, but sometimes data might be missing from a credit report or might not be 
up to date.
I considered whether, in the circumstances, there was anything that ought reasonably to 
have caused Loans2Go to doubt the accuracy of the credit report it had acquired. There is a 
note on the report dated 2020 that the individual concerned has disputed the accuracy of 
the information registered at this address which suggests that there had been a 
disagreement in the past about some credit information. But overall, I didnt think it was
unreasonable in the circumstances for Loans2Go to rely on the information on the report as
providing a reasonable and fair picture of Mr As credit position. I didnt think it would be fair
or reasonable to expect Loans2Go to make an automatic assumption that this particular
credit report, which is quite detailed, would have failed to note an IVA. And as I understand,
Mr A hadnt mentioned his IVA to Loans2Go when he applied for the loan.
I also considered whether there was anything in the information that Loans2Go did
gather that ought to have been of concern. There was some adverse information on Mr As
credit report. But given the type of lending, I thought a lender would reasonably expect to 
see some adverse information on a consumers credit history. Mr A had two defaulted 
accounts and he had previously had difficulties repaying credit around 2018. But the defaults 
dated from 2016 and I thought it would have been reasonable for Loans2Go to consider 
these to be historic.
I thought it would have been fair for Loans2Go to have considered the open, active credit
showing on Mr As report to be reasonable and generally showing a positive payment
history. The report included an open loan with a balance of £200, repayable at £20 per
month and a credit card with a balance of £163 against a limit of £500. Overall, I didnt think
there was anything on the credit report which ought reasonably to have been of additional
concern to Loans2Go.
Loans2Go asked Mr A for information about his income and expenditure and it also used an
online verification tool. Mr A declared £1,750 per month income on his application form. The
lender made some adjustments following verification and increased Mr As likely monthly
expenditure before it calculated whether the £57 monthly loan repayments were affordable. I
thought in the circumstances these adjustments were reasonable.
On balance, I thought the checks that Loans2Go carried out before lending to Mr A were
reasonable and proportionate. I thought it was reasonable in the circumstances for 
Loans2Go to have relied on the information that Mr A provided and what it found it its 
checks. 
I didnt think more in-depth checks were required in these circumstances. If Mr A was in a 
more difficult financial position, this doesnt appear to be something that he shared with 
Loans2Go at that time, or something that proportionate checks would have uncovered. I 
didnt think there was anything in the information that Loans2Go gathered at the time which 
should have caused the lender any additional concerns about Mr As financial position when 
he applied for the loan. Or that ought reasonably to have led the lender to conclude that his 
loan application should be declined.
Mr A thinks the amount of interest being charged on this loan is too high. I thought about
what Mr A has said about the cost of this loan. There was a very large amount of
interest payable and I appreciated that Mr A might now feel this was unfair. But the loan
did not fall under the regulatory cost cap as the term was over 12 months. And the loan
documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr A had to actively
engage in the loan application process, and I thought its likely that he was aware of the 18-
month loan term and the total amount of interest payable at the time.
Mr A has also told us he was suffering from poor mental health when he applied for the loan.
But Id not seen anything to suggest that Loans2Go was made aware that he might be
unwell or vulnerable in some way. I am sorry if Mr A was struggling at time, and I appreciate
that he may not have thought through the implications of repaying his loan in full. But taking
everything into account, I thought Mr A was aware he was taking a high cost loan over an 
18- month period. Mr A accepted these terms and the payments appeared affordable in hiscircumstances. Overall, I couldnt fairly conclude that Loans2Go acted irresponsibly when it 
agreed to provide Mr A with his loan. And I didnt find that Loans2Go has acted unfairly 
towards him in some other way.
I said I was not intending to uphold the complaint about the loan. I invited both parties to 
send me further evidence or comment. Loans2Go says it has nothing further to add. Ive not 
seen any further comment from Mr A or any new evidence. The deadline for commenting 
further on my provisional decision has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
As I explained, I cannot fairly conclude that Loans2Go acted irresponsibly when it provided 
the loan to Mr A. And Ive not seen anything which makes me think that Loans2Go treated 
him unfairly in some other way. I know Mr A will be disappointed by my decision. If the loan 
is still outstanding and Mr A is experiencing financial difficulties, then I would expect 
Loans2Go to treat him positively and sympathetically and try to arrange a repayment plan 
that is affordable for Mr A.
I am sorry that Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but I would like to reassure him that 
I have carefully considered everything that both he and Loans2Go have told us and all the 
information that has been provided. Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Loans2Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman