DRN-4183424
The complaint
Three limited companies, which I will refer to as E, have complained about the refusal of a 
business interruption claim under the business insurance cover they held with Hiscox 
Insurance Company Limited.
Mr K, as director of all three companies, has brought the complaint on their behalf.
What happened
E operates as a wedding venue, also providing accommodation and catering services on an 
exclusive hire basis. In March 2020, E contacted Hiscox to make a claim for business 
interruption, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. E said that as a result of the Government 
restrictions imposed in March 2020, it had to close its business from 21 March to 4 July 
2020, which resulted in a loss of revenue. 
Hiscox initially rejected the claim. However, after the Supreme Court issued its judgment in 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case in 
January 2021, Hiscox invited E to resubmit the claim. E resubmitted the first claim for the  
lockdown period starting in March 2020 and also submitted claims for the later lockdown 
periods in November 2020 and January 2021. 
In April 2021, Hiscox confirmed that it accepted E was required to close during the three 
periods of lockdown and that its claims were covered. It made some interim payments to E 
while it assessed the claims in detail. Having assessed the claims, based on Es average 
income in the twelve months prior to each lockdown period and having made various 
deductions for costs savings, Hiscox made a final offer of settlement of £169,00, including 
interest and £500 compensation. 
Hiscox said it had applied a percentage reduction in respect of lockdown one, as Hiscox said 
E was underinsured by around 35%.  Hiscox said the sum insured for loss of income was 
£1,500,000 over 36 months, so £500,000 per year and Es actual income in the 12 months 
prior to March 2020 was more than this. 
E was not happy with the amount offered and has made a number of submissions in support 
of the complaint. Ive considered everything E has said but have summarised the main 
points below:
The settlement doesnt provide for the impact that the ongoing restrictions beyond 
the lockdown periods had on its income. 
It had wedding packages booked long ahead of time (on average 14 months lead 
time) which it could not deliver due to these restrictions but Hiscox has only provided 
for those during the wider lockdown periods. 
Between 21 March 2020 and 20 June 2021, it was subjected to either a mandatory 
lockdown or restrictions on the numbers of guests that could attend the events. It was 
restricted to hosting weddings for between 6 to 30 people but its contracts include a 
minimum guest count of 50 people. It provides the catering, accommodation and 
hosting services. 
As a wedding venue it provides a niche service, different from the general hospitality 
industry. It was subject to 10 specific restrictions between March 2020 and July 2021, 
which meant it was not able to provide the services it was contracted to do by its 
customers even though the lockdown periods had ended.  
Discrete parts of the wedding package were prohibited at different times, such as 
serving of canapes, providing a bar, providing a dancefloor and overnight 
accommodation.  Receptions were illegal at times. Between 4 and 30 July 2020, it 
could hold ceremonies but no celebration reception. It uses a separate dining barn 
for the receptions, so this is a distinct part of the premises. So in accordance with the 
Court judgement on the test case there should be cover for this. 
It also could not show people around the venue which impacted bookings beyond the 
lockdown periods but still within indemnity period of 36 months and the bookings that 
should have taken place during the pandemic period but which were deferred, meant 
it had fewer dates available when it could operate again, which again impacted on its 
income for considerably longer
Hiscox deducted furlough payments and business rates grants from the settlement 
but these were emergency support grants which should not be deducted. By allowing 
Hiscox to deduct this it is the insurers that are benefiting from this fund, which was 
not the intention of the scheme which was to keep businesses going. 
Hiscox said it was underinsured but has said the insured amount was £1,500,000 but 
the policy documentation clearly says it was insured for £1,750,000. It is this figure 
that should have been used to calculate any deduction.
It was taken to court by two customers that had booked weddings for dates outside 
the lockdown periods. The wedding ceremonies could have gone ahead but with 
limited service provided by E (in particular fewer guests allowed) but the court found 
in favour of the customers that the contract had been frustrated. This supports that it 
was not able to deliver the contracts it had with customers, so E had to return a non-
refundable deposit to the customers, and so was unable to trade. They had to return 
the non-refundable deposits for them 
E says there is just under £650,000 outstanding, which it asks to be paid. 
In response to the complaint, Hiscox said the maximum indemnity period is 36 months but 
the cover is for the total inability to use all or a distinct part of the premises due to 
Government restrictions and so there is no cover when the restrictions requiring E to close 
its premises ended. This is supported by the declarations made by the Supreme Court in 
relation to the test case, which said an insured cannot claim for loss sustained before 
commencement of or after the cessation of the insured peril.  The insured perils that 
triggered cover under the policy were the Government restrictions requiring E to close and 
not the Covid-19 pandemic generally. 
Hiscox also said that there was no ban on receptions after any of the lockdown periods, 
rather there was guidance which said it was strongly advised that receptions do not take 
place and any small post celebrations following the ceremony are only permitted for up to 6 
people from different households outside or two households or bubbles inside or outside. 
This did not amount to a total inability to use any part of the premises or discrete part of the 
business. 
Hiscox said the underinsurance deduction was only applied to the first claim for lockdown 1, 
as it is based on the actual earnings in the previous 12 months and for the later periods, 
earnings were lower so were within the annual sum insured of £500,000. It also said it was entitled to deduct costs savings and furlough and rate relief were not grants. If it did not 
deduct these then E will be compensated for expenses that it had not incurred. 
Hiscox therefore maintained that its offer of settlement was reasonable and in line with the 
policy cover.  
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that Hiscox had settled the claim fairly and reasonably and in line 
with the policy terms. 
E did not accept that Investigators assessment. Es lawyer made some further submissions 
on its behalf, which Ive summarised below. 
E said it had no further comment to make on the deduction of furlough and business rate 
relief from the settlement but said it reserved its position on these matters. E said again that 
the restrictions it had to operate under outside of the lockdown periods were not merely a 
hindrance of the business, they meant it was unable to operate. The general hospitality 
industry were under restrictions that hindered their operation but I must consider the niche 
nature of the wedding industry and that it is different from the rest of the hospitality industry. 
The government restrictions on numbers and so on, was more than a mere hindrance or 
obstruction. It was an obstacle that prevented it from operating; and discrete parts of the 
business could not operate, such as the accommodation, bars and catering part of the 
business. E asks what else it could have done in relation to the contracts it had and could 
not fulfil? 
E said the Government helped the general hospitality industry that suffered hindrances (such 
as with the eat out to help out scheme) but the wedding industry was not provided with 
such assistance, which shows there was simply an inability for it to operate. 
Regarding the underinsurance and the indemnity limit, it has made two separate claims for 
loss of income and increased costs of working, so the sum insured is the combination of 
these together which is clearly £1,750,000. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the compliant, it has been passed to me. 
Es complaint relates to three different claims. We normally consider complaints about 
different claims separately. However, in the circumstances of this particular case, I consider 
it appropriate to consider this as one complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Es submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Period of indemnity 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover.I have considered the section of cover that both parties agree is relevant to this claim below. 
The policy provides cover for loss of income, including increased costs of working, as a 
result of business interruption under the following term:
Public Authority
your inability to use the venue due to restrictions imposed by a public authority during 
the period of insurance following 
an occurrence of a notifiable human disease.
The policy sets out how it will assess the loss of income as follows: 
How much we will pay
The amount we pay for each item will be calculated as follows:
Loss of income
the difference between your actual income during the indemnity period and the 
income it is estimated you would have earned during that period or, if this is your first 
trading year, the difference between your income during the indemnity period and 
during the period immediately prior to the loss, less any savings resulting from the 
reduced costs and expenses you pay out of your income during the indemnity period. 
We will also pay for increased costs of working and alternative hire costs
The policy defines the indemnity period as being:
The period, in months, beginning at the date of the insured damage or insured 
failure, or the date the restriction is imposed and lasting for the period during which 
your income is affected as a result of such insured damage, insured failure or 
restriction, but for no longer than the number of months shown on the schedule. 
The months shown on the schedule is 36 months. The insured restriction is the inability of E 
to use its premises due to restrictions imposed by a public authority during the period of 
insurance following the occurrence of Covid-19. And if there is cover under the policy then it 
will cover the period that E is affected by the insured restrictions imposed up to a maximum 
of 36 months. 
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Es was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in use. 
The court also made it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that 
arose out of an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. Therefore, this policy term would provide cover to a business that had been caused an 
inability to use their insured premises, for all or for a discrete part of its business. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. But in my opinion it is clear from the quote 
above that the court determined that impairment or hindrance of use would not be enough to 
trigger cover under Es policy terms; the inability to use the premises, or a discrete part of 
them, would have to be absolute. 
So the question for me to determine is whether or not E suffered an inability to use its 
premises for the entire maximum indemnity period that it is claiming for and not just the 
lockdown periods already accepted as covered by Hiscox. 
The various restrictions placed on gatherings and weddings did clearly have had an impact 
and meant E had to adapt the way it used the premises. E was also not able to provide the 
services it had contracted to provide for some of its customers and demand for Es services 
might have fallen but I am not persuaded that there was an inability to use its premises 
during the periods of time in dispute. I do not consider that it was required to close its 
premises. E was unable to provide some of the contracted services due to restrictions on 
gatherings and social distancing measures but this is not the same as being unable to use 
the premises at all.
E also says that it was unable to use discrete parts of its premises, such as the celebration 
areas used for receptions and the accommodation areas. However, I note the submission 
from Es lawyer said it could not section off parts of the business or space, as offering the 
wedding ceremony only (and not other parts of the package) would put it in breach of 
contract. And I have not seen any evidence to support that these were discrete parts of the 
business, such that E would offer these services separately from the other parts of the 
business, to non-wedding guests for instance. I do not therefore consider it has established 
that it was unable to use discrete part of its premises for a discrete part of its business.
E says it could not fulfil the contracts it had made with customers during the times claimed 
for but that is not the test to determine if there is cover under the policy. It is whether or not 
there was an absolute inability use its premises or a discrete part of them and for the 
reasons given above, I do not think this was the case.  
I do not therefore consider that Hiscox acted unreasonably in declining Es claim for the 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic outside of the lockdown periods. 
Underinsurance and sum insured 
The policy schedule says:
business interruption  amount insured £1,750,000 
Item description 
Loss of income (including increased costs of working) £1,500,000
Additional increased costs of working £250,000
Within the loss of income cover, the policy provides for increased costs of working, which is 
defined as being: The costs and expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred by you for the sole 
purpose of minimising the reduction in income to your business during the indemnity 
period, but not exceeding the reduction in income saved.
Theres also an additional separate £250,000 worth of cover for additional increased costs 
of working defined as being: 
additional costs and expenses, not including the costs of reconstitution of data, 
reasonably incurred by you with our prior consent in order to continue your business 
or minimise your loss of income or gross profit during the indemnity period and not 
limited to the reduction in income or gross profit saved.
From the information Ive seen, Es claim included some increased costs of working but not 
for additional increased costs of working, so I am satisfied that the sum insured for loss of 
income was £1,500,000 over 36 months, so the equivalent of £500,000 per year. 
When applying the deduction for underinsurance, Hiscox relied on the following term in the 
business interruption section of the policy: 
If the annualised amount insured is less than 85% of your actual income, or your 
actual gross profit if applicable, during the 12 months immediately preceding the date 
of the insured damage, insured failure or restriction, the amount we pay will be 
reduced in the same proportion as the under insurance.
Hiscox says that in the 12 months prior to 21 March 2020, Es actual income was around 
£770,000, which was approximately 35% more than the loss of income sum insured of 
£1,500,000 over 36 months, or £500,000 per year.  It therefore applied this to the loss it 
assessed E as having made in lockdown 1. Hiscox did not apply any deduction for the other 
two claims, as it said Es income in the 12 months prior to these claims was less than 
£500,000. 
However, I do not think I need to make a finding about whether this deduction was fair and 
reasonable or not because the policy schedule also says:
Special limits
Public authority - £100,000 or the total amount insured for business interruption, 
whichever is less
So each claim under the public authority section of cover is subject to a cap of £100,000. 
In relation to lockdown 1, Hiscox calculated the total loss (after deductions of savings) as 
around £158,000 and after the deduction for underinsurance just over £102,000. However, 
the claim for lockdown 1 was then subject to the individual claim cap of £100,000. As this 
cap would have also applied, even if the underinsurance deduction had not been made, I do 
not think the underinsurance altered Es position in any way. 
Furlough
The relevant part of Es policy (set out above) explains how the reduction in income would 
be calculated. I think the wording makes it clear that any charges and expenses saved 
during the indemnity period would be deducted from the claim settlement. The furlough payments received by E represent a saving on Es normal wage bill, which is a 
saving of expenses of the business. It doesnt seem fair to me to require an insurer to pay for 
an expense of a business for which the business has already been compensated from 
elsewhere.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the 
following judgment is helpful when considering this complaint: Stonegate Pub Company Ltd 
v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm). Thats because, 
one of the issues considered by the Court was whether payments received by a policyholder 
under the furlough scheme were to be taken into account when calculating the sums 
recoverable under the policy. The Court found that payments received by businesses for 
furlough should be taken into account when calculating any indemnity as they did diminish 
the insured loss.
I think this also reasonably applies to the business rates relief that E received. Theres no 
evidence that the business rates would not have normally be paid out of Es income. 
Therefore if E had not received the business rates relief, it is likely the rates would have 
been an expense paid out of its income and which was saved as a result of the insured 
event.  So, I think Hiscox was entitled under the terms of the policy to deduct the amount E 
received in respect of furlough payments and business rates relief from its settlement of Es 
business interruption claim.
I do not therefore consider that it was unreasonable for Hiscox to deduct these from the 
claim settlement. 
Having considered everything provided to me, I am satisfied that Hiscox has settled Es 
claims fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman