DRN-4263853
The complaint
Mr M complains that the offer Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) made to settle 
his motor insurance claim is too low. 
What happened
In May 2023, Mr Ms vehicle was damaged while it was parked and so he made a claim on 
his motor insurance policy. Skyfire decided it was not economical to repair the vehicle. It 
offered to settle the claim by paying the market value of the vehicle (less excess) to Mr M. 
To determine the market value of the car, Skyfire consulted two valuation guides. It found 
the following valuations: Guide 1 - £6,237; and Guide 2 - £6,540. Skyfire ultimately offered to 
pay £6,540 (the higher of the two guides) to settle the claim. 
Mr M did not accept that valuation and he complained to this service. He told us that hed 
bought a new car very similar to the car that was damaged for £8,000. He said the value of 
second-hand cars had increased dramatically in value. He didnt think the valuation guides 
reflected this increase in price. Mr M also thought that Skyfire should refund an additional 
amount hed paid for the premium for his new car. He said hed also incurred taxi costs and 
he thought Skyfire should reimburse those costs. 
Our investigator looked at all of this, but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr 
M did not agree with that view and so the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld his 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ms policy say that if his vehicle is damaged and it 
is not economical to repair it, Skyfire will settle the claim based on the market value of the 
car. Market value is defined in the terms and conditions as the cost of replacing Mr Ms car 
with one of a similar, make, model, age, mileage and condition based on market prices at 
the time of the accident or loss. 
Assessing the value of a car isnt an exact science. Like most insurers, this service often 
finds valuation guides persuasive. Thats because the valuations are based on nationwide 
research. I appreciate Mr M does not agree and he told us the guides did not reflect the 
current market for used cars. However, as a service, we generally consider the valuation 
guides to be helpful in showing likely selling prices at the month of loss. But we take account 
of all the evidence (including adverts) when were considering whether a fair valuation has 
been offered.  
In deciding the market value of Mr Ms car, Skyfire consulted three valuation guides, but it 
was only able to obtain figures from Guides 1 and 2. I can see that when Skyfire obtained 
those valuations, t used the correct specifications and date of loss. Our investigator 
attempted to get a fourth valuation but was unable get a result. 
However, our investigator did obtain a number of adverts for vehicles similar to Mr Ms. I 
appreciate the vehicles shown in those adverts were not exactly the same as Mr Ms. But the 
policy terms say that Skyfire will base its market value on cars that are similar to the vehicle 
that was damaged. From the adverts obtained by our investigator, the two vehicles of the 
same make and model with similar mileage to Mr Ms range from £6,500 to £8,000. 
However, I note that both are a year younger than Mr Ms. 
Mr M also provided a number of adverts. I appreciate there were several reasons as to why 
he did not think many of the cars in those adverts were like for like with the vehicle that was 
damaged. But I think the valuation Skyfire offered was within the range of prices for cars 
similar to Mr Ms as shown in the adverts he sent to us. 
I know that Mr M told us hed bought a new car for £8,000. He helpfully provided us with a 
copy of the advert from that sale. I appreciate this purchase was for more than the 
settlement Skyfire offered, but the new vehicle does appear to younger and have fewer miles 
on the clock compared to the vehicle that was damaged. I cant say that the cost of the new 
vehicle means Skyfires valuation is unfair. 
Mr M told us that the value of second-hand cars had dramatically increased in value and that 
he didnt think this was reflected in the valuation guides. But in considering whether Skyfires 
valuation was fair, Ive also looked at adverts provided by Mr M and our investigator. I think 
any general increase in price would be reflected in those adverts for second-hand cars, 
which Ive taken into account. 
I know Mr M said he thought Skyfire should reimburse him for taxi fares and an additional 
amount he had to pay in connection with his new policy. Ive thought about this carefully, but 
I cant say those additional costs arose because of a mistake made by Skyfire, It follows then 
that it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Skyfire to cover those costs. 
With all of this in mind, I am satisfied that Skyfires valuation of Mr Ms car at £6,540 is fair 
and so I dont need to tell it to take any further action in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman