DRN-2796591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of a claim 
made under their home emergency policy.
All references to Admiral include its appointed agents. 
What happened
In October 2020, Mr B phoned Admiral to say that there was dirty water coming back up 
his shower drain since the early hours of the morning. This water also flooded into the 
hallway of his property.
Admiral accepted the claim and told Mr B he would receive a call with an appointment 
time within an hour. However Mr B says he didnt receive a call until later that day. The 
contractor arrived around 90 minutes after the call and cleared the blocked drain.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Admiral. They said this additional time caused more water 
damage to their flooring. And they said that if theyd known the contractor wouldnt call 
within the hour, they wouldve made arrangements to get their own contractor in.
Admiral said its contractors attempted to contact Mr B within the hour to arrange an 
appointment but werent successful. It said the terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy werent 
specific when it comes to appointment timescales, so it didnt think the overall time taken 
by the contractor was unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and brought their complaint to us. They also raised a number 
of concerns around the way Admiral handled their complaint.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld because 
they found Admiral hadnt made Mr and Mrs B aware that they could source their own 
contractor. They found it more likely than not Mr and Mrs B wouldve done this as they 
had used their own contractor on previous claims. But they didnt find Admiral liable for 
the additional water damage to the floor as this was clearly excluded in the policy terms. 
They recommended Admiral pay Mr and Mrs B £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators recommendation. They say that if the 
contractors had attended quicker, there wouldnt have been as much water damage to 
the floor and it wouldnt have started lifting. They want Admiral to pay for the 
replacement flooring.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I have no power to decide on how Admiral handled Mr and Mrs Bs complaint as it isnt a 
regulated activity covered by our service. 
The crux of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that they were told by Admiral theyd get a call 
within an hour for the contractor appointment, they didnt, and as such the additional time 
added to the claim caused further water damage to the flooring. So they want Admiral to 
pay for this damage.
In order to uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, I need to decide if Admiral 
breached the terms of the home emergency policy by providing a later appointment and 
whether that directly led to further water damage to the floor.
The relevant terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy state Admiral will Arrange for one of our 
authorised contractors to get in touch with you to make an appointment or to settle the 
claim on a reimbursement basis and We will only pay for emergency repair and will not 
pay for any damage caused by the emergency. You may be able to claim these costs 
back if the loss or damage is covered under your associated home policy.
Having listened to the relevant calls Mr B made to Admiral, theres nothing which makes 
me think it did anything which breached these policy terms. Admirals contact notes show 
that the job was passed to its contractor within minutes of Mr Bs first call, and it appears 
an attempt was made to contact him straight away and at various points that morning. 
Theres some ambiguity over the attempted calls here as Mr B uses a call screening 
service but I am satisfied he was ultimately contacted in line with the policy terms.
I accept Mr B wasnt told he could appoint his own contractor if he couldnt agree an 
appointment and had he been told, he wouldve likely done so. And I agree that this has 
caused him some upset in knowing the issue couldve potentially been fixed sooner that 
day. So I find our investigators recommendation for £50 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
However even if Mr B managed to get his own contractor to fix the drain sooner, Im not 
persuaded this would have made a difference to Admirals liability for the water damage. 
The terms of the policy state Admiral arent liable for any damage caused by the blocked 
drain itself. And I think its most likely there was already some damage to the floor by the 
time Mr B notified Admiral. So as Ive found Admiral didnt breach the policy terms of 
offering an appointment, it therefore wouldnt be reasonable for me to require it to pay for 
the replacement flooring.My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve                                  
Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
- Pay £50 compensation to Mr B and Mrs B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman