DRN-1244375
 
The complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
During a meeting in 2002 Mrs F took out a credit card with BOS. At the same time she was 
sold a regular premium PPI policy to cover her credit card payments.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs F wouldve had 
to make it clear in the application she wanted PPI and the policy wouldve suited her needs.
Mrs F disagreed. She says she wasnt given enough information on the policy and didnt 
need it.  
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Mrs F was sold the PPI during a meeting when she applied for her credit card. BOS needed 
to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs F says this wasnt done. Mrs F hasnt given us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make her think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold so long ago. So in reaching me decision Ive relied on 
what I know about how BOS sold PPI and what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Ive seen a copy of a sample credit card application and agreement form sent to us by BOS 
which it says wouldve been used in Mrs Fs sale. I can see within section 8 Product details 
it says to mark the relevant boxes if credit card repayments insurance or card protection is 
wanted. I think this couldve been worded better and set out more clearly but I think it 
presents the PPI as optional. 
And from what we understand about BOSs sales process there wouldve been a discussion 
about PPI and then the application form wouldve been completed and printed out for 
reviewing and signing. So I think its likely Mrs F wouldve understood she had a choice and 
that she had PPI because she agreed to take it. And based on what Mrs F has told us I cant 
say its likely BOS did do things to make her think the PPI wasnt optional.
This was an advised sale. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mrs F could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the 
policy was suitable to her needs and circumstances.I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs F for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mrs F says she was entitled to some sick pay but had no other 
means of making her credit card payments if she couldnt work. The policy wouldve 
paid out on top of any work benefits and covered her credit card payments for up to 
12 months if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. So I think 
the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs F in her circumstances. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time and 
if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mrs F information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy out. I dont think BOS did give all of the information as it shouldve.
But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs F has told us 
about her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if 
shed been given all the proper information on the policy.
Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But BOS has offered to give Mrs F back some of the cost of the PPI and I understand BOS 
has already paid this. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs F. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman