DRN-3371540
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the amount Pinnacle Insurance plc paid towards a claim she made on 
her pet insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs R had a pet insurance policy for her dog, B, which provided cover for vet fees up 
to £7,500 per condition.
B began suffering from Cushings Syndrome. Mrs R claimed for the cost of treatment, 
which was accepted. Treatment continued, further costs arose and were paid.
Then B had surgery. The vet performed an adrenalectomy, cholecystectomy, and 
tonsillectomy. Pinnacle paid the cost in full, attributing half of it to Cushings and the 
other half to another condition.
After that, B required further treatment costing nearly £5,000. Pinnacle paid Mrs R 
around £1,250 towards it, saying she had reached the condition limit for Cushings 
Syndrome. Mrs R said this treatment wasnt solely for Cushings. She noted the cost 
of surgery had been split and asked Pinnacle take a similar approach to the cost of 
this treatment. The limit for the other condition hadnt been reached, so this would 
mean an additional payment of around £2,500.
Pinnacle thought the further treatment was related to Cushings and so it was fair to 
consider all the £5,000 cost under the Cushings claim limit.
Our investigator thought Pinnacle had acted fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
further. Mrs R disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for, amongst other things, vet fees up to a maximum of £7,500 per 
condition. The policy explains that a condition includes any recurring problems relating to a 
previous illness or symptom or any related problems that are caused by, related to, or result 
from another illness or symptom.
I dont think theres any dispute that the limit has been reached for the costs of treating 
Cushings Syndrome. So its fair for Pinnacle not to make any further payments towards that.
But Mrs R thinks the cost of further treatment was partially related to a different condition. 
The limit for that hasnt been reached. So if the evidence supports her view, there is more for 
Pinnacle to pay under the other condition.
I think a misunderstanding has arisen, so Ill clarify a few points. After the surgery, the vet 
said the adrenalectomy and cholecystectomy were related to one condition  Cushings. And 
the tonsillectomy was a separate condition. So the cost of surgery was split between 
Cushings and a tonsil problem.
I dont think this was made clear to Mrs R as Pinnacle told her it had paid some of the cost 
under the Cushings claim limit and the rest under Not listed. It seems she understood the 
Cushings claim was for the adrenalectomy, the Not listed claim was for the 
cholecystectomy, and was unaware there had been a tonsillectomy.
This is important because the complaint rests on what caused the further treatment costing 
around £5,000. Mrs R has argued the cholecystectomy in part caused the further treatment. 
Ill explain below why I agree with that  but for the reasons above, the cost associated with 
that will still fall under the Cushings claim limit.
Mrs Rs vet said the later treatment was for an abscess and sepsis. They said the cause of 
these problems was difficult to understand and likely multifactorial. But they thought it was 
brought about due to the aftereffects of surgery, including increased periods of recumbency. 
They said the abscess could be unrelated to surgery but didnt offer an alternative cause.
Pinnacles vet thought the abscess and sepsis were both secondary complications from the 
previous illness and surgery. They said the primary purpose of the surgery was to deal with 
the problems brought about by Cushings Syndrome. So any problems resulting from the 
surgery were also brought about by Cushings.
Overall I think the vets broadly agree that the likely cause of the later treatment was the 
aftereffects of the surgery. Whilst they cant be certain, no other cause has been put forward. 
So Im satisfied the surgery led to the later claim.
In a nutshell, Mrs Rs point is that the surgery didnt just deal with the Cushings problem, it 
also dealt with another condition. And that was reflected in the split costs. So the later 
treatment, caused by the aftereffects of the surgery, should be treated the same way.
Pinnacle thinks the surgery was essentially for the Cushings problems, so whilst the cost 
was split, the reason for the surgery, and the reason for Bs difficulties following it, are all 
caused by or related to Cushings.
Looking at Mrs Rs vets notes, I think thats a fair assessment. It seems the surgery was 
arranged in order to carry out the adrenalectomy and cholecystectomy  both to deal with 
the Cushings problems. And during that surgery, a further problem was noticed with a 
portion of the tonsil, so it was removed. I havent seen anything to persuade me that the later 
treatment was related specifically to the tonsillectomy.
Pinnacle said that whilst it split the costs of surgery evenly as there were two separate 
conditions, the majority of the cost arose from the first two procedures and the additional 
cost of the tonsillectomy was minor. Because of this it thinks its treated Mrs R fairly by 
apportioning less to the Cushings claim than it strictly needed to, using up less of the limit.
Based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied the later treatment resulted from Cushings 
Syndrome  either directly or as a result of other treatments for it. Given the policy cover 
outlined above, that means all of the £5,000 cost of the later treatment falls under this limit. 
Im not persuaded any of the cost should be considered under the limit for another condition.Overall Im satisfied Pinnacle has treated Mrs R fairly, which means I dont think it needs to 
pay her anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman