DRN-3276408
The complaint
Mr G complains that Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma irresponsibly lent to him. Mr G 
says it wasnt made clear at the time of sale how the interest was calculated. He also says 
Varooma didnt look into his complaint within a timely manner and didnt help when he said 
he may lose his job.
What happened
Mr G borrowed £4,000 from Varooma, the loan was lent in January 2020 with 24 monthly 
repayments of £433.33, the total cost of the loan was £10,400. I understand that Mr G 
reached a settlement agreement with Varooma and the loan has now been settled.
By the time Mr G referred his complaint to this service, Varooma said it hadnt fully 
investigated Mr Gs complaint and so it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our 
investigator thought Varooma hadnt acted unfairly towards Mr G and so he didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr G disagreed, he said he didnt believe the investigator had fully reviewed all the 
information about his complaint. As the complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loan was offered.
The lending decision
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Varooma has provided evidence to show that before lending, it searched Mr Gs credit file, 
asked him about his income and expenditure and verified some of the information he 
provided through his bank statements. I can also see that Varooma carried out an 
application call with Mr G. I think those checks went far enough.
The credit file showed that Mr G had 3 active CCJs and some historic defaults from 2016  
2018, Mr G also had an account that went into arrears in August 2016. Looking at the 
screenshots of Mr Gs bank statement provided to Varooma, I can see his income over the 
three months before the loan was around £3,949. There wasnt anything on the bank 
statements that should have concerned Varooma about his ability to repay his loan. Mr G 
was repaying his defaulted accounts and he had sufficient disposable income to repay the 
loan. So, I dont think Varooma was wrong to lend.
Admin issues
Ive thought about Mr Gs point that he wasnt made aware about how the interest was 
calculated. Ive seen a copy of the agreement which Mr G signed electronically, and it states 
clearly the cost of the lending that that the total repayment for the loan would be £10,400. 
I can also hear during the call with the agent, the agent told Mr G that if he repaid the loan 
within one year then he will only pay six months of interest. On balance, Im satisfied that 
Mr G was aware of the interest rate applied to his loan and was told about the potential of an 
interest rebate should he repay the loan early. 
Mr G has also said he was unhappy with the way Varooma calculated the loan settlement 
figure. As the loan has now been settled and Mr G paid a total of £4,310.66, it means he 
paid only £310.66 in interest, which is less than six months interest which Mr G would have 
had to pay if he repaid the loan within a year. I think Varooma have acted fairly here with the 
settlement figure it accepted and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
I can see that Mr G was worried that he may lose his job due to the uncertainty with the 
pandemic and he contacted Varooma to say this, I can see that Varooma froze the interest 
on his account and accepted half of the contractual monthly payments for nine months. 
Bearing in mind Mr G hadnt lost his job at the point Varooma accepted the reduced 
payments and a freeze on the interest, I think it treated Mr G positively by proactively 
offering him help.
Varooma didnt respond to Mr Gs complaint when he raised it, it says it wasnt clear what his 
complaint was about and when it asked him, he didnt respond. I can see that Mr G 
expressed dissatisfaction with the way the settlement figure was calculated and what he 
says he was led to believe when he took out the loan, so I think Varooma ought to have 
known what he was complaining about and should have responded. In any event, I can see 
that after the eight-week period expired, Varooma told Mr G he could refer his complaint to 
this service which he did. While I think Varooma could have looked into his complaint 
sooner, it put this right by pointing Mr G to refer his complaint here.Overall, I dont Varooma has acted unfairly towards Mr G and I appreciate he feels Varooma 
hasnt dealt fairly with him but having considered all the circumstances of his complaint, I 
wont be asking Varooma to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman