DRN-2613394
The complaint
Ms S complains that the car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services (Alphera), wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. Ms S wants to reject the car and end the agreement.
What happened
In October 2018, Ms S entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with Alphera 
for a used car which was around four years old and a mileage of 37,500.
In January 2019, Ms S took the car back to the dealership, complaining that the car was 
stalling, suffered from poor fuel consumption and had an issue with a seat buckle.. 
Despite investigating the car, and taking it on test drives, the dealership was unable to 
locate any fault with the car though the seat buckle was replaced. The car was returned to 
Ms S.
About a week later Ms S raised a potential warranty claim in respect of the car and it was 
booked in for an appointment at the dealership for early February 2019. However, Ms S 
didnt take the car in and no work was undertaken on the car.
Around a week after the missed appointment, Ms S contacted the dealership and 
complained that there was flaking to the cars windows and reported stalling and revving 
issues. The car was taken into the dealership. Repairs were undertaken to the windows 
but, again, the dealership said it couldnt find a fault with the car as to the stalling and 
revving problem Ms S said she was experiencing. The dealership carried out a 
complimentary health check on the car, together with a software upgrade. The car was 
returned to Ms S.
Ms S contacted the dealership in April 2018, with continuing concerns about the car 
stalling and revving. The dealership arranged for the car to be seen at another garage to 
investigate the issue. Ms Ss partner signed the job card authorising the car to be 
investigated and reported on.
The second garage investigated the car and replaced the EGR valve as a 
precaution, though it said it hadnt found any faults with the car.
Ms S says that the car was taken into the dealership in mid-April 2019, and then sent to 
another garage, as the dealership hadnt been able to fix it. She says she wasnt given 
any information about when the car was likely to be repaired. She says the second garage 
informed her the car was in a much worse state and needed more time to investigate it. 
Ms S said that in June she received a parking fine for the car that showed it was back in 
the local area. She says she wasnt told the car had been returned to the dealership. Ms S 
contacted the dealership who said the car was being subjected to a lengthy test drive. It 
sorted out the parking fine.
Ms S made a complaint to Alphera. She said she wanted to reject the car, she didnt 
know where it was, and the dealership wasnt assisting her.
The dealership has disagreed with some of the things said by Ms S. It did not accept 
that she hadnt been able to contact the second garage and says that it tried to contact 
her on several occasions and eventually returned the car to her in or around October 
2019, as no fault could be found with the car. The dealership disagreed that Ms S was 
entitled to reject the car.
Alphera investigated Ms Ss complaint but decided not to uphold it. It said that Ms 
Ss partner had agreed for the car to be investigated and repaired and this had 
been undertaken. The car had been returned to her.
Ms S complained to this service. She said that Alphera had originally been open to her 
rejecting the car, but had later changed its mind, which she thought was unfair. She said it 
had even provided her with the settlement figure for the agreement to pass to the 
dealership. The dealership had also appeared to agree to take the car back as it had 
allowed her to remove all her belongings from it in July 2019, when she had handed the 
keys back to it. However, the car had then been returned to her in October 2019, with a 
Broken Down Do Not Drive notice on the front seat. Ms S said she hadnt used the car 
and it was still sitting outside her home.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that 
there wasnt enough evidence to persuade him that there was anything wrong with the car 
as, although she had complained about the car stalling and revving, no fault with the car 
had been found. The investigator said that to show there was a reoccurring fault with the 
car an independent engineers report would be required. He didnt think the notice on the 
front seat of the car was enough to say the car had a fault.
Our investigator also said that although Alphera had been considering agreeing to Ms S 
rejection of the car, due to the faults she said she was experiencing with it, Alphera had 
been entitled to change its mind when it reviewed the complaint having received 
information from the dealership.
Alphera agreed with our investigators view but said that, in light of the amount of time Ms 
S had been without the car while the issues had been investigated, it would agree to 
suppress a further two months direct debit payments, having already suppressed one 
months direct debit payment during the investigation. As Ms S had requested to 
voluntary terminate (VT) the agreement Alphera deducted this amount from the final 
settlement figure leaving an outstanding balance of £2,110 to pay.
Ms S disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said the car had problems and 
wasnt reliable and, because of that, Ms S hadnt used it. She said that as the dealership 
had returned the car with a note stating Broken Down Do Not Drive this was evidence 
that the dealership also thought the car was faulty.
Ms S said it was Alphera that had instigated and advised her to reject the car under the 
Consumers Rights Act 2015, as not being of satisfactory quality. It had given her a 
payment holiday while it approached the dealership. Ms S said the dealership had also 
agreed to take the car back and had asked her to take her things out of the car. She 
asked that calls between her and Alphera be listened too.
As the parties did not agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision 
along the following lines.
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I am not bound by them when I consider whas fair and reasonable .Id looked at the job cards prepared when the car was investigated by the dealership and 
the other garage, Id seen photos supplied by Ms S of the dashboard which she said 
supported the contention that there were faults with the car. I had also listened to a 
number of phone calls between Alphera and Ms S, as well as reading case notes made by 
Alphera during its investigation of Ms Ss complaint.
Ms S entered into a hire purchase agreement for the car in October 2018. This was a 
regulated credit agreement and so this service was able to consider complaints relating to 
it. Alphera was also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, theres an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety and durability, all of which can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being four-years old and with a mileage of just over 37,500. So, I 
thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have expected 
that issues with maintenance and repair would arise over time. So, unlike a new car, there 
wouldnt be expectation that the car was fault free.
Ms S said that the car had a problem with stalling in January 2019, by which time the car 
had been driven for a round 2,200 miles. The car was looked at by the master technician 
at the dealership and taken for a test drive, but no fault could be found.
The car was returned.
Id seen the car had some cosmetic repairs in February 2019, to its windows and, 
although the stalling and revving issue was again raised by Ms S, no faults were found. A 
health check was carried out on the car and the car was returned after no other faults 
were found with it.
Ms S then asked the dealership to look again at the stalling and revving issue, so the car 
was taken back to it in April 2019. On this occasion Ms Ss partner signed the job card 
authorising investigation. Alphera said that this showed there was agreement by Ms S for 
the car to be repaired.
The dealership arranged for the car to be looked at by another garage, but I didnt seen 
any evidence that this was because it accepted there was a fault that needed repairing. I 
thought it was reasonable to say that this was for a second opinion, as no fault had been 
found by the dealership on the two prior occasions the car had been taken into the 
garage. The second garage wasnt local to Ms S.
Looking at the job card from the second garage Id seen that the EGR valve was replaced, 
but as a precaution, not because there was any fault found. This repair was carried out at 
the end of May 2019, and the car was then returned to the dealership. Ms S said she 
didnt know where her car was and wasnt given any information about it.The dealership said that, during the time the car was away being investigated, a courtesy 
car was provided but that Ms S decided to return this as the repair was taking too long. It 
also said that it tried to make contact with Ms S, but without success. There  appeared to 
have been a conversation with Ms Ss partner regarding the car, and the dealership said 
Ms Ss partner declined to come to the showroom and said they didnt intend to pay for 
the car any longer.
Ms S said it was only in June that she had become aware the car was back in the local 
area as she had received a parking fine for it. She spoke with the garage who said the car 
was being thoroughly test driven to ensure there was no fault. I appreciated Ms S was 
sceptical as to how a fine was administered if the dealership was test driving it. But Id 
also seen that 600 miles had been added to the mileage while the car was being 
investigated, so I thought it was more likely than not that there had been extensive road 
tests carried out.
The dealership said the car was in full working order from June 2019. However, there had 
clearly been a breakdown in the relationship between the dealership and Ms S. I was 
unclear why the dealership wasnt able to speak with her. There appeared to have been a 
lack of information about the car from the time it went in for investigation in April, to its 
return to the dealership in June 2019. However, I didnt have any evidence that the car 
wasnt in full working condition when it was returned to the dealership in June.
Ms S complained to Alphera as she said she found the dealership unhelpful. Listening to 
the calls between her and Alphera, I accepted that during them Ms S was given the 
impression that her complaint might be upheld, but I didnt agree that she was told this 
would definitely be the case. She was regularly told that her complaint was being looked 
at and information was being gathered.
Id also seen that Alphera had thought that there had been previous unsuccessful repairs 
and that rejection of the car had been sought in April 2019 by Ms S. However, once 
information had been received from the dealership, together with the job cards, Alphera 
reconsidered its initial view and didnt uphold her complaint. I didnt think I could 
reasonably say it wasnt entitled to take this action.
Ms S said that the dealership had also indicated its agreement to take the car back by 
allowing her to collect her belongings in July 2019, and she had handed the keys back. I 
didnt know what was said by the dealership about this but, from what it has said, I didnt 
think the dealership ever agreed Ms S could reject the car. Allowing her to collect her 
belongs might have been a gesture of goodwill.
Ms S said the car was always of unsatisfactory quality, but I didnt think I had enough 
evidence to agree with her. The dealership and second garage found no faults with the 
car and, although Ms S has provided photos of the dashboard which she said 
demonstrated the issue with the car, I couldnt say they were sufficient to be evidence of 
an ongoing problem with the car.
Ms S also said the note left on the front passenger seat advising the car shouldnt be 
driven showed the dealership believed there was an issue with the car. But I disagreed 
with her view. I thought that by the time the car had been delivered to Ms S, she was 
aware that the dealership strongly disagreed she had a right to reject the car because it 
was faulty and, that in its opinion, the car was in full working order. So, although I didnt 
know why that note was left in the car, it wasnt consistent with the information Ms S had 
been given by the dealership. I was also aware that Ms S hadnt started the car or tried to 
drive it any time after it was returned. In all the circumstances the note alone wasnt evidence the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
As I was unable to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, I couldnt 
reasonably say that Ms S was entitled to reject it and unwind the agreement. However, I 
did think the breakdown in communication between Ms S and the dealership over the 
investigation into the issues with car, led her to be without the car for an extended period.
Id seen that during its investigation, Alphera had suppressed one direct debit payment to 
acknowledge Ms S was paying for a car she hadnt had use of, and I thought that action 
by Alphera was fair. After our investigator reached his view, Alphera responded by 
offering to suppress a further two direct debit payments. I thought this offer to suppress 
three months worth of payments under the agreement was fair to reflect the period she 
was without the car.
Ms S had now sought to VT the agreement, and there was a balance remaining to be 
cleared once the agreement is settled. Alphera had reduced that balance by deducting the 
two months worth of payments from it. I thought this was a fair offer and I didnt intend to 
ask it to do more. If the car wasnt VTd then I was asking Alphera to supress those two 
monthly payments for Ms S.
So, for the reasons given above, I wasnt intending to uphold Ms Ss complaint that she 
should have been able to reject the car, but I thought she was entitled to have it 
recognised that she was without the car for a period of time. However, I thought Alpheras 
offer to suppress three monthly payments under the agreement was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances, and I wasnt intending to ask it to do more.
Ms S disagrees with my provisional view, she says she was frustrated by Alpheras action 
at first agreeing she could reject the car and then changing its mind. She says that this 
situation has resulted in financial hardship for her and it was unfair this service hadnt 
raised with her having the car independently inspected sooner than it had. The car has 
now been handed back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms S is disappointed by my provisional view but as neither party has provided 
any additional information about the condition of the car, Im afraid I havent changed my 
mind.
My role is to look at the evidence that has been provided and assess it objectively. For the 
reasons set out above, I still dont think there was enough evidence for me to be able to 
reasonably say the car had a fault that had been present or developing from the point of 
sale. 
Ive seen that Ms S strongly disagrees with my view, but her video and photo evidence 
werent enough when weighed against two garages inspecting the car and finding no fault. 
I also thought it was reasonable to consider that after the car had been returned in 
October 2019, Ms S hadnt driven the car so wasnt able to confirm or otherwise whether 
the issue was still present with it. Ms Ss partner, on her behalf, had agreed to the 
dealership investigating the car in April and carrying out any necessary repairs. And work 
had been carried out by the second garage followed by a lengthy test drive. The 
dealership had been clear that, in its opinion, the car had been in full working order since 
June 2019. Further, as set out above, I didnt think it was reasonable for Ms S to rely on the note she 
found in the car about it being broken down when the car was eventually returned to her. 
She was aware by then that the dealership disagreed there was a fault with the car.
So, for the reasons provided Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint. The car has now been 
handed back by Ms S and the agreement has been ended. Alphera has deducted a 
further two months payments from the outstanding balance which I think is fair as this 
represents the period of time Ms S was without the car. In these circumstances Im not 
asking for Alphera to do more.
Ive seen that Ms S has suffered financial difficulties and I would therefore expect Alphera 
to treat her sympathetically in respect of the settling of the outstanding balance.
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman