DRN-2914749
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) hasnt paid his claim under his contents 
insurance and it delayed his claim for the loss of items in his freezer.
What happened
While he was in hospital, Mr Bs freezer stopped working and the contents had to be thrown 
away. He claimed under his contents insurance, but he couldnt evidence his loss.
Mr B complained to Aviva about its failure to return his call about his claim. It confirmed it 
had left him a voicemail. Aviva investigated his claim, and during that time Mr B contacted it 
for updates, becoming increasingly frustrated by the lack of progress.
Aviva contacted Mr B to ask why he hadnt disclosed previous claims when he bought the 
policy. He explained that, due to health issues, he hadnt remembered them. He provided a 
letter from his doctor (GP) to confirm what he said, and Aviva agreed to pay the cost of 
obtaining the letter.
Because of Mr Bs circumstances, Aviva decided not to void the policy. However, it asked 
him to pay the premium outstanding after he cancelled his direct debit, along with the 
additional premium it wouldve charged for the increased risk had he told it of his claims in 
the first place. Mr B agreed, but then refused to pay unless Aviva confirmed it would settle 
his claim. He complained to Aviva about the delay settling his claim and its refusal to confirm 
whether it would settle his claim before he paid the premium.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought it was reasonable that Aviva 
expected the policy to be paid up to date before it took any further action, and any delays 
were because it was waiting to receive the letter from Mr Bs GP.
Mr B didnt agree. He explained that he had experience of insurers doing anything to avoid 
paying out a claim, and he wanted Aviva to confirm it would settle his claim before he 
brought the premium up to date. Mr B also wanted compensation for the stress caused given 
his existing health issues.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about Mr Bs health issues. I wont go into detail 
here in order to protect his privacy, but Id like to reassure Mr B that Ive taken it into 
consideration when looking at how Aviva handled his claim, which was also aware of his 
circumstances.
Claim
Mr B claimed under his policy for the loss of his freezer contents. His policy provides cover 
up to £500. However, he couldnt prove his loss when Aviva asked for receipts or photos.
The policy states: 
To help us settle your claim
You are responsible for proving any loss. So we may ask you to provide receipts, 
valuations, photographs, instruction booklets, guarantee cards and any other relevant 
information, documents and assistance we may require to resolve your claim. 
Its Mr Bs responsibility to show that he suffered a loss, but it seems he wasnt able to do so. 
It was reasonable that Aviva asked him to provide evidence in line with the terms of the 
policy, so I dont think it did anything wrong here.
Undisclosed claims
When investigating the claim, Aviva found that Mr B had made several previous claims 
which he hadnt disclosed at policy inception when asked about his claims history. The policy 
documents state:
Important Notice - Information and changes we need to know about.
You must take reasonable care to provide complete and accurate answers to the questions 
you are asked when you take out, make changes to, or renew your policy. 
Looking at the history, Mr B made three claims for freezer contents around the same time of 
year within the previous three years. Aviva confirmed that it wouldnt have offered a policy 
had it been aware of the claims. But it decided not to void the policy having considered the 
evidence Mr B provided about his health conditions.
However, Aviva said that if it had offered a policy, the premiums wouldve been higher. It 
calculated the outstanding premium as just over £60. Aviva paid Mr B £22 to cover the cost 
of the letter from his GP, and then asked him to reinstate his direct debit and pay the 
outstanding premium.
Ive thought carefully about this and Im satisfied that Aviva acted fairly. Under the regulatory 
rules, Aviva wouldve been entitled to cancel the policy. It chose not to because of Mr Bs 
circumstances. Instead, by revising the premiums and asking Mr B to pay the difference, 
Aviva gave Mr B the opportunity to have his claim considered. Given that it wouldnt have 
offered a policy had it been aware of the previous claims from the start, I think that was 
reasonable.
Mr B doesnt think its fair that Aviva wont commit to settling his claim before he pays 
because, if its declined, hell have paid the additional premium for no benefit to him. But I 
dont agree. Under the General Conditions set out in the policy documents, Aviva can cancel 
the policy if it isnt paid up to date. Again, it has chosen not to take action available to it, but I 
cant fairly say that Aviva should investigate the claim until Mr B has paid the premium. And 
it wouldnt be able to confirm a claim outcome until it has been investigated. Therefore, Im 
satisfied that Aviva hasnt done anything wrong here.
Delays
Mr B complained about Avivas delays in handling his claim. Looking at the log notes Aviva 
provided along with Mr Bs explanation of events, I can see that the delays were due to both 
parties waiting for evidence from Mr Bs GP about his medical conditions. Aviva needed the information before it could decide what action to take about the undisclosed claims, so I 
dont think it was unreasonable to wait. On receipt of the GPs letter, it confirmed it would 
leave the policy in place, so the delays were to Mr Bs benefit. As I cant fairly say that Mr B 
was disadvantaged by the delays, I wont be asking Aviva to compensate him for them.
Overall, Im satisfied that Avivas request for Mr B to bring his policy up to date before it 
considers his claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And the delay while waiting 
for information from the GP worked in Mr Bs favour, because Aviva decided not to void the 
policy. I see no reason to require anything of Aviva in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman