DRN-2156756
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc handled his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 following unsatisfactory repairs to his car.  
What happened
In May 2018 Mr D had some work done on his car by a garage, H. He paid £499 using his 
Sainsburys credit card. He was unhappy with the work and asked for remedial work to be 
done. Mr D said that this too was unsatisfactory and that H caused damage to the cars 
bodywork. Further poor workmanship caused a diesel spill which damaged Mr Ds driveway; 
the garage arranged for it to be cleaned. 
Mr D remained unhappy. He said that there was no written warranty for the work, even 
though hed been told it was guaranteed for two years, that paperwork had been 
manipulated and that H had told him it no longer wanted to deal with him. 
Mr D contacted Sainsburys Bank because, he said, it was liable as his credit card provider 
in the same way as H. 
Sainsburys Bank considered what Mr D had said and contacted H. It offered Mr D a 
settlement of £506.07, representing a refund of the £499 hed paid H and the cost of water 
and electricity used when cleaning his driveway. In a letter of 4 October 2019 Mr D accepted 
that offer, whilst continuing to express concerns about the warranty offered by H. He also 
noted that Sainsburys Bank appeared to have out of date contact information for him. In its 
reply, the bank explained what Mr D needed to do to update that information; it also said that 
the settlement would not affect any future warranty claim, if any were made. 
Mr D remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered it. She thought however that the bank had acted fairly and didnt 
recommend that it do any more to resolve Mr Ds complaint. Mr D didnt agree and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, subject to certain 
conditions, a person who has a claim for breach of contract against a party that takes 
payment by credit card has a like claim against the card provider. In this case Mr D said that 
the work that H carried out was not done with reasonable care and skill (as required by the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015), and so he brought a claim against his credit card provider, 
Sainsburys Bank. 
Sainsburys Bank made Mr D an offer to settle his claim. Mr D accepted that offer and the 
bank paid him in line with the agreement they had reached. Theres no suggestion that Mr D 
was misled or pressured into settling the claim hes made. He did so willingly and 
understanding what that meant. Had he wished to pursue the matter further or to seek 
additional compensation from the bank, Mr D could have rejected its settlement offer, but he 
didnt.  
I note that, in accepting the offer, Mr D commented on the guarantee that H had given about 
the work and on his contact details held with the bank. I believe however that the banks 
response to those matters was fair in the circumstances. It explained how Mr D could update 
his details and gave some reassurance about what it might do if the guarantee were not 
honoured. I note too that Sainsburys Bank has made further payments in recognition of the 
inconvenience to which Mr D was put, and I think they are reasonable too.
I am required by law to determine Mr Ds complaint on the basis of what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable. In this case, I believe that Mr D and the bank agreed in October 2019 
the basis on which they would settle this case. In the circumstances, I dont believe it would 
be fair of me to require Sainsburys Bank to do more  any more than it would be fair of the 
bank to withdraw its settlement offer after it had been accepted.       
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Sainsburys Bank Plc to do any 
more to resolve Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman