DRN-3130999
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint relates to a mortgage he has with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS). He has 
complained about:
the information that has been recorded on his credit file since 2017;
the contractual monthly payment (CMP) went up in September 2020;
a field agent visit that happened when he believed he was in a payment arrangement; 
BoS sending bailiffs to his home; and
the service he received during telephone discussions April 2021, including a member of 
staff hanging up on him.
What happened
Mr B arranged a mortgage with BoS in 2015 to purchase a share of a property. As part of the 
shared ownership arrangement, he had to pay the other party to the agreement (the 
landlord) rent for the part of the property he didnt own. He also had to pay ground rent and 
service charges for the property.
In 2017 Mr B started having difficulty making payments; many were made late and some 
missed. There was a prolonged period of missed payments in 2018. This meant that arrears 
built-up on the account.  BoS decided to take legal action to repossess the property. A 
suspended possession order was issued by the courts in January 2019, which said that BoS 
couldnt enforce the order if Mr B paid £50 toward the arrears, over and above the CMP. 
Starting in October 2017 Mr Bs landlord began approaching BoS for payments to cover the 
rent and service charges due under the shared ownership lease. Action to forfeit the lease 
was started by the landlord on various occasions and so BoS paid the money requested to 
stop that action. The amounts paid were added to the mortgage balance and triggered a 
review of the CMP  this was to ensure that the mortgage debt would be repaid over the 
remainder of the term. As the debt had increased, the CMP needed to as well. BoS wrote to 
Mr B each time this happened and confirmed the amount of the new CMP. This included 
after a payment made in August 2020, which took effect as of September 2020.
In August 2020 Mr B complained to BoS about it having paid the rent and service charges on 
his property. I wont go into the detail of that complaint, as it is being dealt with under a 
different complaint with this service. BoS responded to the complaint in October 2020.
The following month, BoS agreed a payment arrangement with Mr B. The arrangement was 
due to run between 28 September 2020 and 28 November 2020 (inclusive). BoS confirmed 
the arrangement in writing and told Mr B that he needed to contact it to discuss the mortgage 
payments before the payment arrangement ended. Mr B didnt contact it before the 
arrangement expired. 
In January 2021 BoS sent Mr B a statement detailing his arrears. It said that the arrears 
werent collected as part of the CMP and so needed to be repaid separately. Mr B was 
invited to discuss the matter. He didnt contact BoS to discuss a further payment 
arrangement. However, he did contact it about receiving calls from BoS and how this was 
affecting him. BoS agreed to stop calls to him for a period. 
As Mr B wasnt talking to BoS about his arrears and had asked not to receive calls, BoS 
arranged for a field agent to visit him in February 2021. The purpose of the visit was for a 
discussion to take place and, hopefully, a way forward established for payment of the 
arrears. However, Mr B was upset by the visit and it ended without moving matters forward. 
Mr B telephoned BoS that day and complained about the field agents visit. He said that he 
thought there was an arrangement in place through the suspended possession order. 
BoS issued its response to this complaint and explained that a payment arrangement had 
been in place between September and November 2020. It enclosed a copy of its letter of 
September 2021 that had confirmed this. BoS also highlighted that the arrears statement on 
1 January 2021 had asked him to contact it if there wasnt an agreement in place. He hadnt, 
so it had sent out a field agent to discuss the situation. BoS thought it was reasonable for it 
to do so in the circumstances. 
At the beginning of April 2021 Mr B called BoS as hed become aware of what had been 
recorded on his credit file about the mortgage. His understanding was that BoS had 
recorded that he hadnt been making payments since March 2018, which he said wasnt 
true.  In addition, he said he was confused about a letter hed received about the arrears on 
the mortgage. This showed a different CMP from the amount that had previously been 
agreed. 
Mr B was transferred to a different department and the call handler explained the CMP had 
changed in September 2020 and she confirmed that BoS had written to Mr B about it. Mr B 
didnt accept this was the case and didnt believe that a letter had been sent to him. The call 
handler explained that the letter would have been automatically generated when the CMP 
was recalculated. She suggested that if he wasnt getting correspondence, he might want to 
discuss it with Royal Mail. Mr B informed the call handler that he was unhappy about the way 
shed spoken to a disabled, vulnerable customer in that way. Then Mr B entered into a 
dialogue about BoS businesses systems and that he may not have received the letter 
because it wasnt sent. The conversation was not productive from that point and the call 
ended unexpectedly. The call handler had been in the process of responding to a comment 
from Mr B when the call ended, and so she called him back. Mr B suggested that the call 
handler had hung up on him deliberately because she hadnt liked what he was saying. He 
asked to speak to a team leader. 
There were further issues as the team leader initially suggested that the call handler, who 
Mr B was complaining about, be party to the conversation. The team leader retracted the 
suggestion when he understood more about the situation. 
Mr B complained that the way he was spoken to was disgusting and showed no empathy to 
a vulnerable disabled customer who was upset. He said he had not been notified of the 
increase to the CMP in Sept 2020. In addition, he wasnt happy that the team leader had 
been planning to have the person he was complaining about in on the call.
BoS responded to Mr Bs complaints about the arrears on the account, the increase to the 
contractual monthly payment and what had been recorded on his credit file. It confirmed that 
the CMP had increased in September 2020 because of the payment made to the landlord in 
August 2020. It also confirmed that it had written to him at that time confirming what it had 
done, that the CMP was increasing and to what amount. As such, it didnt uphold this aspect 
of the complaint. 
In relation to the arrears on the account, BoS said that the account had constantly been in 
arrears of at least the amount of one CMP since January 2018. This meant that late 
payments and the account being in arrears would be recorded on Mr Bs credit file. It also confirmed that while the account was in arrears, the arrears would continue to be reported to 
credit reference agencies. BoS also provided Mr B with a transaction history for his 
mortgage and details of the arrears on the account from the end of November 2017. It 
highlighted missing payments and confirmed that although Mr B had been making additional 
payments at times, they hadnt been enough to reduce and clear the arrears.
A week later BoS responded to the complaint about the telephone conversations of 
8 April 2021. It apologised for how the telephone conversations had left Mr B feeling. That 
said, it didnt agree that the call handler acted inappropriately or that she wasnt 
understanding of Mr Bs situation. In addition, as the call handler was mid-sentence when 
the call cut off, BoS thought it unlikely that she had hung up on Mr B. However, it confirmed 
that there had been a misunderstanding when the call was escalated to the team leader. 
This had meant that he inappropriately suggested the call handler remain on the line. In 
order to compensate Mr B for the upset that its error had caused, BoS said it would pay £75 
into Mr Bs bank account.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr B acknowledged receipt of the investigators view and asked that the complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr B has raised concerns about our handling of the complaint. These were 
referred to a manager and responded to. As such, this decision will not consider or comment 
on those issues.
I would initially comment regarding the matter of Mr B believing that BoS had sent bailiffs to 
his home. I am satisfied that was not the case. However, it did send a field agent when it 
was unable to speak to Mr B by telephone (because hed asked it not to call) and he wasnt 
responding to correspondence asking him to contact it. When a consumer is in financial 
difficulties the industry regulator expects a lender to try to help that consumer. That doesnt 
mean ignoring the problem, rather it needs to actively engage with a consumer to see what, 
if anything, it can do to help. Mr B would have been given notice of when the agent would be 
attending his property and, had he been unwilling for this to happen, he could have 
contacted either BoS or the company the field agent worked for. Given Mr B had asked that 
BoS stop calling him regarding the arrears, and he wasnt responding to written prompts, it 
doesnt seem unreasonable for a field agent to have been commissioned.
Mr B has commented that he didnt need to make an arrangement as there was one in place 
 that being the requirement under the suspended possession order for him to pay the CMP 
plus £50. That was the requirement the court put in place if Mr B was to retain his property, 
however, he wasnt paying that amount. The CMP from September 2020 was just over £418, 
but hed been paying less than that amount since September 2020. 
Mr B has said he wasnt informed about the increase to the CMP in September 2020. I have 
reviewed BoS records I see no reason to question them in that it sent Mr B a letter following 
the August 2020 landlord payment being made, which caused an increase to the mortgage 
balance. A change in the mortgage balance would trigger a review of the CMP and 
confirmation of the new required CMP would have been automatically generated. It is of 
course possible something went wrong with BoS systems as Mr B believes, but BoS hasnt 
identified that there was a system error at the time. I think it likely that the letter was sent to 
Mr B at the correct address. I can understand that Mr B is unhappy with the negative effect reporting of the arrears on his 
credit file has had. Firstly, I would comment that the credit file doesnt record that Mr B hasnt 
made any mortgage payments since early 2018. Rather it shows that he has been in arrears 
since that point. When a lender reports to credit reference agencies, which most do, there is 
a requirement on the lender to report factually accurate information. As such, BoS was 
required to inform the credit reference agencies that Mr Bs mortgage account was in arrears 
and the equivalent number of months of CMP the arrears amounted to. It also confirmed the 
periods for which a payment arrangement was in place. I have looked at the arrears 
information and I dont think BoS reported anything that it shouldnt have.
I have listened to recordings of the telephone calls on 8 April 2021. I know that Mr B wont 
agree, but I am not persuaded that the call handler behaved inappropriately or that she 
deliberately hung up on Mr B. BoS has acknowledged that the suggestion that the call 
handler be involved in the call with the team leader was inappropriate. It has offered Mr B 
£75 for the upset this caused him and I think that is a reasonable amount in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
13 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman