DRN-3480023
The complaint
Miss P and Mr Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) concerns the delay 
they experienced in Barclays issuing to them a mortgage offer.
What happened
In July 2021 Miss P and Mr P applied for a mortgage with Barclays as they wished to buy a 
property. This was Miss Ps first property purchase. A valuation was carried out buy by a 
third-party surveyor on 15 September 2021. When the valuation report was received it 
incorrectly recorded that the property had deck/balcony access. The effect of this was that 
the property was then considered by Barclays to be outside of its lending policy. Barclays 
queried this with Miss P and Mr Ps broker, who explained that the valuation report was 
incorrect, as the property was a ground floor flat and there was no deck/balcony access. On 
5 October Barclays repeated the same query and received the same explanation.
On 15 October Miss P rang Barclays to find out whether an amended valuation report had 
been issued but was told by Barclays that the surveyor hadnt yet been contacted with a 
request to amend it. Ultimately a mortgage offer was issued to Miss P and Mr P on 30 
November. 
Miss P submitted a complaint to Barclays who apologised for the delay in asking the 
surveyor to amend the valuation report. In recognition of that, Barclays offered Miss P and 
Mr P £50 in compensation.
Miss P and Mr P were unhappy with Barclayss final response and so approached this 
service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there 
had been poor service by Barclays and the amount of compensation offered was insufficient. 
She thought £150 would be a fair and reasonable resolution and Barclays accepted that. 
Miss P and Mr P didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 21 April 2022 and Barclays and Miss P and Mr P 
have responded to say they accept it.
The facts to this complaint are largely agreed. Miss P and Mr P applied for their mortgage in 
July 2021 and the valuation was carried out on 15 September. Barclays accept the valuation 
report was incorrect and they accept that there was a delay in returning to the valuer to seek 
a correction and amended report. 
Although the report was incorrect Miss P and Mr P have not complained about the time 
period between application and valuation. What this means is that the relevant period in so 
far as considering the length of any delay is after the 15 September.
On 16 September Barclays contacted Miss P and Mr Ps broker with a request for 
clarification about the deck/balcony issue. Although Barclays received the answer to that 
query that day, it would seem they did not act on it since they raised the same query on 5 
October. The same answer was given but I can see that in Barclays final response letter of 
20 October although they acknowledged Miss P and Mr P had told them they were buying a 
first floor flat, they were still working under the belief that there was a deck/balcony issue 
since they said they had yet to hear back from the valuer to correct the valuation report.
Following Barclays final response, it seems that further enquiries were made by Barclays 
resulting in the mortgage offer being issued on 30 November. Barclays have not said when it 
received the amended valuation report and I have therefore worked on the basis that it 
would been shortly before the offer was issued. Barclays havent said there was anything 
else holding up the issue of the offer. On that basis the delay is around two to two and a half 
months, being from 15 September to the mid/end of November.
Barclays has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it offered 
compensation to Miss P and Mr P of £50. Our investigator thought this to be insufficient and 
has suggested £150 is more appropriate. Miss P and Mr P dont think this is enough and 
Miss P has referred to information displayed on our website regarding how we value 
compensation and also to guidance she has read concerning the Financial Services and 
Market Act 2000. Miss P believes that compensation in the region of £500 - £750 would be 
more appropriate. 
When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation might be, we 
consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that 
may have been caused. There is no set figure, since the facts of each case are different, and 
ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the case and 
coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the complainant of any 
particular service failures. 
Ive taken account of the fact that this was Miss Ps first purchase and so ought to have been 
a very special and exciting time for her. Miss P and Mr Ps broker provided the right 
information when asked on two occasions, and Miss P herself rang Barclays multiple times 
to try to resolve the issue. 
I accept the delay would have caused an increase in the levels of stress Miss P experienced, 
beyond those one would normally experience when making a first-time purchase. I am sorry 
to hear that there was a toll on Miss Ps mental health, although I have not been provided 
with any specific evidence of the extent of that. I have not been told that Mr P was similarly 
stressed.
And I note that Miss P and Mr P did reach the point where they reasonably believed that 
they might lose their purchase if their mortgage offer was not issued very soon. So, I accept 
Miss P certainly sustained more stress than she would otherwise have felt had things gone 
smoothly.
I have also taken into account that there was no direct financial loss to either Miss P or Mr P.Putting things right
So, taking all of these factors into account, I do think that this is a case of a single large error 
which required any considerable effort to resolve. The impact on Miss P, especially, certainly 
lasted for more than a few days, and as I have said probably in the region of 10 to 12 weeks. 
This I think take it slightly beyond our category of an award up to £300 and I would place it 
at the lower end of the next category. I do therefore feel that the compensation offered in this 
complaint is too low, and I would provisionally award £350.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC shall pay Miss P and Mr P £350 compensation to settle this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman