DRN-3898853
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy  that CB Payments  Ltd won't  refund  money  she lost as a result  of a 
scam.
What happened
On 7 December 2022, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give 
both sides a chance to respond with any further evidence or arguments before I issued my 
final decision. That provisional decision forms part of this final decision and is copied below.
What  happened
In September  2018,  Ms L fell victim  to an investment  scam.  As part of the scam,  an 
account  was opened  at Coinbase.  Ms L sent money  from her bank  account  to a CB 
Payments  electronic  money  account  opened  in her name.  Her money  was converted  
into cryptocurrency,  which  was deposited  into a cryptocurrency  account,  which  
Coinbase  says  was provided  by Coinbase  UK (though  Ms L disputes  this).  The 
cryptocurrency  was then sent off the Coinbase  platform  to a blockchain  address,  
presumably  controlled  by the fraudsters.
Between  September  2018  and March  2019,  Ms L lost over €500,000  to the scam.  In 
March  2019  Coinbase,  concerned  about  the volume  of transfers  Ms L was making,  
prevented  her from carrying  out any further  transactions.
It wasn't  until the following  year that Ms L complained  to Coinbase.  It responded  on 
behalf  of CB Payments  and Coinbase  UK and said that it had no relationship  with the 
recipient  of her cryptocurrency,  couldn't  recover  it and as she'd  carried  out all of the 
activity  herself,  it wasn't  responsible  for her loss.  Though,  I note,  it appears  to have  
made  a small  credit  of €50 to her account  in response  to the complaint.
Ms L also referred  the matter  to our service.  CB Payments  argued  that we had no 
power  to consider  the complaint  as it didn't  relate  to the electronic  money  activities  
carried  out by CB Payments,  but rather  the unregulated  cryptocurrency  activities  
carried  out by Coinbase  UK.
One of our investigators  looked  into the complaint.  They  initially  were  of the view 
that we couldn't  consider  it. However,  after further  consideration,  they thought  
there  were  aspects  of it that we could  consider  - specifically  those  which  related  
to whether  CB Payments  had carried  out adequate  checks  when  Ms L opened  
her account  and whether  it had properly  monitored  her account  for unusual  or out 
of character  activity.  The investigator  reviewed  those  aspects  of the complaint  but 
didn't  think  that CB Payments  had made  an error.
CB Payments  didn't  provide  any further  submissions,  but Ms L didn't  agree,  in summary  
she said:
-She hadn't carried  out any of the activity on her Coinbase  account  and this is 
shown  by the fact that neither  her device  nor I.P. address  were  used  to make  
the payments.
-CB Payments  failed  to properly  verify  that either  the device  or I.P. address  
belonged  to her.
-She hadn't  provided  various  pieces  of information  that Coinbase  said she needed  
to provide  in order  to use her account.  So, she shouldn't  have  been  allowed  to 
use it.
-She couldn't  have  held an account  with Coinbase  UK (as the investigator  
suggested)  as this wasn't  an option  for residents  of her country.
-CB Payments  were  aware  that the device  changed  on her account  but didn't take 
any action.  She also provided evidence  of her password  being  reset  on several  
occasions.
-CB Payments  didn't  carry  out sufficient  anti-money  laundering  ("AML")  and Know  
Your  Customer  ("KYC")  checks.
-It allowed  her to open  her account  without  any real checks,  such  as requesting  a 
valid  government  issued  identification  document  and it did not monitor  her 
account  for unusual  I.P. address  activity.
-CB Payments  are part of the scam  she fell victim  to, as it made  a profit  from her 
loss.
-She was informed  by her own bank  that CB Payments'  account  had been  
blocked  due to reports  of fraudulent  activity.
-CB Payments  ought  to have  found  the activity  on her account  unusual  and 
suspicious  and is complicit  in money  laundering
As no agreement  could  be reached,  the case  was passed  to me for a final decision.
What  I've provisionally  decided  - and why
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
There  doesn't  appear  to be any dispute  that our service  can only consider  the actions  of 
CB Payments  in relation  to its e-money  activities,  so I don't  need  to comment  on this 
further.
Ms L says  that, at the time of the fraud  she couldn't have  been  a customer  of 
Coinbase  UK, as this wasn't  possible  for German  customers.  But, I don't  agree  this 
was the case. I've seen  evidence  that the user agreement  she accepted  was the 
agreement  for UK customers.  My understanding  is that German  customers  of 
Coinbase  would  have  been  migrated  first to Coinbase  Europe  (for cryptocurrency  
services)  and Coinbase  Ireland  (fore-money  services)  in November  2020  and then, in 
August  2021,  to a new German  entity  - Coinbase  Germany  GmbH  (for cryptocurrency  
services  only).  Before  that, customers  in Germany  were  customers  of Coinbase  UK. 
But, in any case,  it is not particularly relevant  which  Coinbase  entity  provided  Ms L 
with cryptocurrency  services. What  is important  is that CB Payments  did not provide  
those  services  and they were  provided  by a separate  entity.  As far as I'm aware  CB 
Payments has never  provided  cryptocurrency  services,  so I'm satisfied  that it only provided  e-money  services  to Ms L.
So, the starting  point  for my considerations  is that Ms L is generally  only responsible  
for payments  she's  made  herself.  In this case  she appears  to be saying  that she 
didn't  make  any payments  from her CB Payments  or linked  cryptocurrency  accounts.  
However,  the following  facts  don't  appear  to be in dispute:
-At the time the payments  were  made,  she believed  that she was involved  in a 
genuine  investment  scheme.
-She made  all the payments  to the CB Payments  account  from her own bank  
account  and could  see a corresponding  amount  on a sham  trading  platform  
provided  by the fraudsters.
-She had access  to the CB Payments  accounts  (as demonstrated  by 
screenshots  she's  provided)  and the majority  (if not all) of the correspondence  
about  the account  went  to her email  address.
When  considering  authorisation,  the question  of which  party  actually  instructed  the 
payment  is not the only relevant  one. In order  for Ms L to be reimbursed  on the 
grounds  that the activity  was unauthorised,  it would  need  to be shown  that the 
payments  were  made  without  her consent  and without  any gross  negligence  or intent  
on her part. On the facts  here,  and considering  the nature  of an investment  scam,  
that seems  unlikely.
Ms L must  have  known  and appears  to acknowledge  that the aim of making  
payments  from her bank  account  to CB Payments  was in order  to provide  funding  to 
the sham  trading  account  operated  by the fraudsters.  It follows  that she either  
believed  that the CB Payments  account  was the trading  account  (or was closely  
linked  to it) or she knew  that the money  she sent would  have  to be converted  into 
cryptocurrency  and sent to the trading  account.
I don't  think  the evidence  supports  the former.  As already  mentioned,  Ms L appears  
to have  had some  control  over,  and access  to, the CB Payments  account.  But, even  if 
she was arguing  that she neither  set up nor had any control  over the account,  that 
wouldn't  lead to a finding  that the activity  was unauthorised. Essentially  she'd  be 
alleging  that the CB Payments  account  was hers in name  only and that it was really  
controlled  and operated  by the fraudster. If that was the case,  then she'd  have  sent 
money  to another  person's  account  and the relevant  question  would  be whether  the 
actual  operator  of the account  (the fraudster)  had authorised  the transactions  in 
dispute.  It would  also mean  that we wouldn't have  the power  to consider  parts  of the 
complaint (depending  on when  the transactions  took place)  as they would  relate  to 
another  person's  account  and our service  only had the power  to consider  such  
complaints  from January  2019.
But I think  that Ms L is alleging  the latter  - that although  she may not have  consented  
to each  and every  specific  transaction,  she knew  about  and had access  to the 
account  (for at least  most  of the time)  and knew  that the money  would  be sent from 
her CB Payments  account  to the fraudulent  trading  platform.  In other  words:  the 
account  can fairly  be considered  her account  and not that of the fraudster.  I think  the 
evidence  supports  this conclusion.  I can see that she was able to log into the account  
and I can also see that it was opened  using  an I.P. address  which  is consistent  with 
her location.  She's  provided  emails  from Coinbase  confirming  her account  verification  
and asking  her to confirm  her email  address.  It's also evident  that she did not report  the activity  on her CB Payments  account  as unauthorised  at the time and she 
continued  to send  money  to that account.  The only reasonable  inference  from this is 
that (if she didn't  carry  out the activity  herself)  she agreed  to the fraudsters  using  her 
CB Payments  account.
That means  that, while  she may not have  carried  out the purchases  of cryptocurrency  
herself,  she can reasonably  be said to have  authorised  them  by giving  someone  else 
permission  to operate  the account  alongside  her. And,  while  I'll come  onto address  in 
a bit more  detail,  there's  some  evidence  of password  changes  and new devices  being  
added  to the account,  it appears  that after one of the occasions  her password  was 
reset,  Ms L sent more  money  to her CB Payments  account.  If she received  an email  
about  her password  being  reset  and was concerned  about  someone  else transacting  
on her account  without  her permission  then I wouldn't  have  expected  her to continue  
to make  payments  to her CB Payments  account.
So, I'm satisfied  that the purchases  of cryptocurrency  that took place  on her CB 
Payments  account  were  authorised  by Ms L.
I've gone  onto consider  whether  CB Payments  ought  to have  intervened  to prevent  
further  transactions  being  made  before  it did. At the time of the events  there  were  more  
limited  obligations  on CB Payments  to protect  its customers  from financial  harm  from 
fraud  than currently  exist.  In order  to find that it was responsible  for Ms L's loss,  I'd need  
to be satisfied  that it had very strong  grounds  to believe  that she was at risk of financial  
harm  from fraud  or that it knew  that she was falling  victim  to a scam  but failed  to 
intervene.
I've first considered  whether  the activity  on Ms L's CB Payments  account  was so out 
of character  and suspicious  that it ought  to have  intervened  before  the payments  
were  made.  Ms L has lost a very significant  sum of money  here,  but I think  there  
were  a number  of reasons  why it would  have  been  difficult  for CB Payments  to have  
known  she was at risk of financial  harm  from fraud.
It's first important  to point  out that CB Payments  accounts  are specialist  accounts  - 
they can only really  be used  for purchasing,  and receiving  the proceeds  of, 
cryptocurrency  - and that's  what  Ms L was doing.  It's also the case  that Ms L opened  
the account  as part of the fraud  - so there  was no genuine  use of the account  to 
compare  the fraudulent  activity  against.  I also need  to take into account  the fact that 
purchases  of cryptocurrency  from a CB Payments  account  are, in effect,  transfers  
between  two accounts  under  the customer's  control.
Ms L argues  that CB Payments  ought  to have  known  that someone  other  than her 
was accessing  her account  (and therefore  that she was at risk of financial  harm)  
because  it was accessed  on a range  of different  devices  and from different  locations.  
But I can see that the devices  all appear  to be the same  brand  of device  and, for the 
most  part, the same  internet  browser  is used  too. The evidence  also shows  that the 
I.P. addresses  used  were  all located  to the general  area that Ms L lives.  I.P. 
addresses  aren't  always  a completely  accurate  way of locating  someone  and I 
understand  that there  are various  ways  in which  someone  could  mimic being  in a 
geographical  area they were  not in. But, the question  I'm considering  is whether  CB 
Payments  ought  to have  considered  this to be suspicious  activity.  I don't  think  it ought  
to have  done  as it wouldn't  have  known  or had any compelling  reason  to believe  that 
it wasn't  Ms L accessing  her account.Ms L has also provided  evidence  that she received  emails  advising  her that a new 
device  had been  set up on her account.  The email  required  her to respond  in order  
for the device  to be confirmed  and to be usable.  I can see on CB Payments'  records  
that this happened  each  time a new device  was used  to access  the account.  So, 
again,  I can't  see that this activity  ought  to have  caused  CB Payments  concern.  The 
same  goes  for emails  about  password  resets,  I don't  think  this was particularly  
unusual  and each  email  went  to her own email  account.
I've seen  the identification  documents  that were  provided  to CB Payments  (though  I 
accept  these  might  have  been  provided  by the fraudster,  rather  than Ms L) and 
there's  no dispute  that the source  of Ms L's funds  was entirely  legitimate.  So, I can 
see why it didn't  have  concerns  about  her identity  or the source  of the funds.  While  I 
accept  that CB Payments'  obligations,  particularly in relation  to anti-money  
laundering, are not limited  to the opening of an account  and source  of funds,  had it 
had concerns  about  anti-money  laundering  at an earlier point  it doesn't  necessarily 
follow  that the scam  would  have  come  to light.  The primary  aim of anti-money  
laundering  regulations  is to prevent  criminals  laundering  money,  not to protect  
customers  from  financial  harm  from  fraud.
In order  for the scam  to be uncovered,  I think  CB Payments  would  have  had to have  
had a fairly  detailed  discussion  with Ms L about  the circumstances  around  the 
transactions  and where  the cryptocurrency  was being  sent to. I think  that obligation  
would  only be engaged  where  it had strong  grounds  to think  she was at risk of financial  
harm  from fraud.  And,  for the reasons  I've set out, I don't  think  there  were  grounds  for it 
to believe  this - at least  not until after the final payment  Ms L made  in March  2019.
On 13 March  2019,  following  two high value  deposits  and sends  off the Coinbase  
platform,  Coinbase  conducted  a review  of Ms L's account  which  resulted  in it being  
blocked.  Given  that Ms L had deposited  and sent almost  €150,000  in the preceding  
days,  I think  it was appropriate  for it to review  the activity  which  had taken  place.  
Coinbase  concluded  that it wouldn't  allow  Ms L to make  any further  payments  from 
her accounts.  Taking  all of the above  into account,  I'm satisfied  it shouldn't  have  
taken  this action  any earlier.
Finally,  in relation  to the recovery  of funds,  as Ms L's money  was sent off the 
Coinbase  platform  in cryptocurrency,  CB Payments  would  have  no way of 
recovering  it.
I also understand  Ms L's bank  contacted  CB Payments'  bank  to try and recover  her 
money.  While  I'd find it unsurprising  if other  fraud  reports  had been  made  against  
that bank,  I suspect  the response  she saw which  suggested  CB Payments'  account  
had been  blocked  was either  a standard  and inaccurate  response  or was actually  a 
response  from CB Payments'  about  her own account.  In either  case,  it's of little 
relevance  here.
I'm very sympathetic  towards  Ms L, she's  been  the victim  of a cruel  scam  and lost a 
very significant  amount  of money.  But, I'm afraid,  I do not find CB Payments  
responsible  for her loss.
My provisional  decisionFor the reasons  I've explained,  I do not intend  to uphold  this complaint.
Neither CB Payments nor Ms L responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither CB Payments nor Ms L responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from it and my final decision is unchanged from the provisional decision set out 
above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman