DRN-3081363
The complaint
Ms B complains that Aldemore Bank Plc failed to meet her information needs during her 
application for a savings account.  
What happened
In April 2020, Ms B was considering her options for investing a pot of savings she held. She 
reviewed a number of possibilities, including fixed term arrangements, before settling on a 
cash ISA with Aldemore. Aldemores ISA offered an attractive, but variable, rate of interest. 
Not long after the account was opened, Ms B received a notification that the interest rate on 
her Aldemore ISA would be reduced. Unhappy, Ms B returned to the market to see if she 
was able to lock in a savings rate on one of the alternative products shed considered. But in 
the interim, other savings providers had lowered their rates as well. 
Ms B complained to Aldemore. She felt it was unfair the bank hadnt made her aware the 
ISAs interest rate was under review at the time she applied for it. Had it done so, Ms B has 
said she wouldve been able to lock in a similar rate on a fixed rate of interest with another 
provider. 
Aldemore did not accept Ms Bs complaint. It argued its decision to reduce its interest rate 
was fair, and that it didnt believe itd treated Ms B unfairly. It did however offer her £25 in 
recognition of the time shed spent waiting for it to respond to her complaint. Ms B remained 
unhappy, and referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator considered Ms Bs complaint, but didnt uphold it. They noted the bank had 
reserved the right to vary the interest paid on the ISA in its terms and conditions. And as itd 
given the correct notice of the changes, Aldemore wasnt treating Ms B unfairly.
As Ms B disagreed with our investigators findings, the matters been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making this complaint, I understand its Ms Bs contention that Aldemore failed to provide 
her with sufficient information, for her to have made an informed choice about the ISA she 
applied for. And had it provided her with the information she feels it ought to have done, she 
wouldve made different choices, and been better off financially as a result. 
Ms Bs submissions on this matter are substantial. Id like to assure her Ive read and 
considered them in their entirety. However, I hope Ms B wont take the fact my findings focus 
in on what I consider to the be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Ms B and Aldemore, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the key facts of the case. And thats what Ive done here. 
Ms B has given examples of the kinds of information she wouldve liked to see from 
Aldemore which wouldve helped her with the decision she was making. For example, she 
believes Aldemore ought to have advertised how long itd been since the accounts interest 
rate was last changed. And also, whether or not that rate was currently under review. Shes 
said this sort of information was significant, as from her research, shed believed the account 
was new and therefore less likely to be subject to a rate change. 
I can accept this information mayve been useful from Ms Bs perspective. But to determine 
whether shes been treated fairly or not, I must consider what Aldemores rules required of it 
in the scenario Ms Bs complaining about. 
As a bank offering cash ISA products, Aldemore has a number of obligations towards Ms B 
where the provision of information is concerned. BCOBS 4.1.1R requires that appropriate 
information about Aldemores accounts must be given to Ms B in good time, such that she 
can make decisions on an informed basis. BCOBS 4.1.2R goes on to say when 
considering what information it should provide and when, a firm should consider the 
importance of the information to the decision-making process of the banking customer and 
the time at which the information may be most useful. In addition to this, Aldemore has a 
broad requirement to treat its customers fairly, and communicate with them in a way thats 
clear, fair, and not misleading. 
Ive considered these obligations carefully, and its my view that Aldemore has met them. 
It seems to me that one of the ISAs most significant features was that its interest rate was 
variable. Its this feature, and Aldemores decision to utilise it, thats ultimately led to the 
complaint Ms B is making. And it seems theres no dispute that this feature was clearly 
disclosed during the application process. 
Ms B has explained that whilst she was fully aware the interest rate was variable, the ISAs 
appearance on a comparison website in the wake of rate cuts by the Bank of England led 
her to conclude the account was new. And as a new account, she reasoned that it would be 
less likely to have its rate cut in the immediate future. Shes also suggested that none of the 
information Aldemore gave her about its ISA contradicted her conclusions. 
I can understand Ms Bs train of thought here. But the conclusions shes drawn were based 
on assumptions. She assumed the ISAs appearance on a price comparison website meant 
that it was new. And she assumed that because of when she saw it, its rate was less likely to 
fall, and therefore a better option than fixing a rate of interest with another provider. Neither 
of these assumptions was based on information Aldemore gave Ms B. Theyre based on 
external sources and Ms Bs interpretations of that information. So the understanding Ms B 
arrived at, that Aldemores accounts interest rate was likely to remain as it was for the 
immediate future, such that it was a better option than applying for a fixed rate product, isnt 
a result of the bank misleading her or treating her unfairly. She came to this conclusion 
herself. 
Thinking about Aldemores obligations here, and given what this complaint focusses on, I 
think the banks clearly disclosed what would, from Ms Bs perspective, be the accounts 
most significant feature. The interest rate was variable. And the banks terms, available at 
the point of application, clearly explained the rate could change at any time, for a number of 
different reasons, subject to a short notice period. Ms B accepted these terms when 
applying. And in my view, by accepting these terms, which Im satisfied are clear, fair and 
not misleading, she accepted the risk associated with accounts with variable interest rates. 
That risk being that the rate could change at a time of Aldemores choosing. Her subsequent disappointment stems from her own assumptions. Im satisfied that Aldemore has treated 
her fairly in this matter. 
The relevant rules, which Ive highlighted above, dont explicitly require Aldemore to provide 
Ms B with the information she says it shouldve shown her during the application. The banks 
only required to display appropriate information. And the rules go on to explain the bank 
should determine for itself what is appropriate, mindful of how important any account 
information will be to the decision on whether to apply for a product or not. And by disclosing 
the variable nature of its ISAs interest rate, and the terms under which this may come to 
pass, Im satisfied that Aldemore has met with its obligations to Ms B, such that she couldve 
made an informed decision about whether this account was right for her. 
Aldemores subsequent decision to vary its interest rate was made in line with the terms and 
conditions Ms B accepted during her application. Im therefore not persuaded that it was 
unfair of Aldemore to have made the change that it did. 
In this case, I find that Aldemore has met with its obligations to Ms B and treated her fairly. 
So I do not uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman