DRN-3781196
The complaint
Miss C complains that TSB Bank plc didnt approve a payment holiday and that her loan was 
later closed in default. 
What happened
Miss C had a loan with TSB that has been running for some time without any missed 
payments. Miss C advises she applied for a payment holiday online in late August 2020 but 
it wasnt approved. On 30 August 2020 Miss C cancelled the direct debit instruction. On 
1 September 2020 Miss C called TSB. 
Miss Cs explained the process of speaking with someone at TSB was time consuming and 
confusing. Miss C has told us she spoke with three agents at TSB. An agent advised the 
payment holiday application hadnt been approved as there was no active direct debit 
instruction in place and arranged to send a new mandate to Miss C. Miss C was transferred 
to the customer support team in respect of the September 2020 payment. On the same day, 
TSB sent Miss C a letter to confirm the payment holiday application had been turned down. 
The application was reviewed again a couple of weeks later and TSB sent Miss C a letter on 
17 September 2020 to confirm no payment holiday had been approved. 
Miss C says she tried to contact TSB on several occasions but was unable to speak with 
someone and promised call backs werent received. 
Arrears grew and the loan was later closed with a default being recorded on Miss Cs credit 
file. 
Miss C started to make payments of £18.75 to a third party debt collection agency. The 
payment later increased to £500 a month. In May 2022 TSBs debt collector reported two 
payments as being received from Miss C. But TSB later advised that was a mistake and said 
Miss C still owed around £425. 
Miss C complained and TSB issued a final response. TSB apologised for problems getting 
through to call handlers and for the issues surrounding Miss Cs payment in May 2022. TSB 
offered Miss C £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But TSB confirmed the loan 
wasnt eligible for a payment holiday. TSB also confirmed the outstanding balance remained. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Cs complaint. They thought TSB had dealt with 
Miss Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Miss C asked to appeal and 
said she hadnt received any letters from TSB. Miss C also said she wasnt in arrears when 
she first applied in September 2020 and that she remained of the view that TSBs debt 
collectors had confirmed the debt was repaid. As Miss C asked to appeal, her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of issues at play here and Im going to start by talking about the 
payment holiday applications Miss C made in September 2020. Miss C has confirmed her 
account was not in arrears when she applied. But a payment was due on 1 September 2020. 
Miss C applied for a payment holiday online shortly before the due date. Ive listened to the 
available calls. And I can hear that on 1 September 2020 Miss C was advised the payment 
holiday application wasnt successful because there was no active direct debit in place. 
The agent confirmed theyd arrange for a new mandate to be sent out to Miss C and also 
said a payment holiday application couldnt be approved without an existing direct debit 
instruction. In my view, the agent clearly explained what was happening and why the 
payment holiday hadnt been approved. 
Miss Cs told us the payment wasnt missed when she applied. And I take her point. But on 1 
September 2020 Miss C was aware no payment had been taken and no direct debit 
instruction was in place. I note TSB also wrote to Miss C and confirmed the payment holiday 
hadnt been approved. TSB relooked at the request on 17 September 2020 but, again, it 
wasnt approved. At this point, the 1 September 2020 payment hadnt been made up and no 
new direct debit mandate had been returned. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss C, but I havent been persuaded that TSB acted unfairly 
when it declined the payment holiday application or that it misled her about the status of her 
account. 
Miss Bs told us she found contacting TSB to be very difficult. TSBs confirmed its call wait 
times were heavily impacted during the pandemic and that customers werent contacted as 
promised. TSBs apologised for the inconvenience caused and offered Miss C £150. I dont 
doubt how frustrating the time spent waiting to speak with someone was. But I dont think it 
would be fair to say the delays were entirely TSBs fault. I accept its claim that this was a 
period of particularly difficult operating conditions and I think the delays in speaking with 
someone reflect that.
TSB has told us there was a systems issue that meant Miss Cs May 2022 payment was 
double counted. As a result, it made it appear as if the loan balance had been repaid in full. 
Miss Cs told us TSBs agent confirmed her account was repaid. But TSB has sent in 
systems and statement evidence to show payments made to Miss Cs loan. Im satisfied 
those show a double payment was recorded in May 2022. The additional payment was later 
reversed leaving a balance of £425 to pay. Im satisfied thats the correct outstanding figure. 
TSB offered Miss C £150 to apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im sorry 
to disappoint Miss C but Im satisfied thats a fair way to resolve her complaint. As I havent 
found TSB unfairly declined the payment holiday or closed Miss Cs loan Im not telling it to 
do anything else. I leave it to Miss C to decide whether to accept TSBs offer and discuss 
options for repaying the outstanding balance. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint because TSB Bank plc has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 Marco Manente
Ombudsman