DRN-3881015
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc added a marker about him at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr D explains that he made a subject access request to CIFAS. This showed that HSBC had 
added a marker about him for the misuse of facility and retaining a wrongful credit for 
£1,500. In his complaint form to this service, he said that the person involved with sending 
him money was a money transfer agent and he could give better exchange rates on 
currency abroad from Mr Ds brother. He gave the person involved his account details and 
then HSBC had blocked his account. The person sending the money had told him it was 
genuine. Mr D says that the marker is having a significant impact on him.
HSBC said it had concerns about the operation of Mr Ds account. It was made subject to a 
review and the decision was to close it in October 2021. A marker was added at that time.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the account 
had been closed in line with the terms and conditions. The version of events that Mr D had 
given to this service was different to that given to HSBC. Hed told HSBC that hed sold two 
laptops and a phone, and the money was payment for this. The sale had been to a friend, 
but the money had been sent via the account of someone who knew that friend. She 
considered that HSBC had relied on appropriate evidence when adding the marker.
Mr D didnt agree and said he had provided evidence to support what hed said. His version 
of events wasnt different. He said he bought phones and laptops on social media sites and 
sold them abroad. And that his brother had transferred the money to the money transfer 
agent who then transferred it to Mr D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, HSBC needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr D was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
I think Mr D has now had a fair opportunity to provide any evidence and explanation about 
what happened and in response to the points our investigator put to him. Im going to 
consider the screenshots provided by Mr D. Its difficult to verify them all as genuine and/or a 
complete record. Mr D has shown he was enquiring on social media sites about the 
purchase of phones and laptops. Im not clear hes shown he actually bought and paid for 
any relating to this payment. Hes also provided screenshots of his conversations with the 
person he says was both his friend and also a money transfer agent. Its right that these 
show he was discussing exchanging currency and had provided his bank details on 4 March 
2021. The payment of £1,500 involved here was received on 5 March 2021. And on 9 March 
2021 his friend sent him a copy of the bank statement of the persons account the money 
came from and a list of entries showing the payment to Mr D. I dont have any messages 
around that time about why that was done. Mr D provided a copy of messages to that person 
on 23 March 2021 saying that HSBC were reviewing his case and that hes going to visit that 
friend later. And that person tells him to calm down and to wait for the investigation. Mr D 
messages that hes on the phone with HSBC at the time.
Mr D had spoken to HSBC on 23 March 2021 after his account was blocked and Ive listened 
to the call recording. He doesnt mention his brother being involved or the transfer of 
currency. He says he doesnt know the person the money was sent from. And he says that 
he gave two laptops and a phone to his friend about two days before the money was paid. 
He was unclear in his explanation about how he knew this payment was coming and that it 
would be from someone else. He offered to provide the statement and a screenshot of him 
providing his bank account details. He didnt then provide all the background messages 
which are about a currency transfer/ exchange of some £5,000 equivalent  and which hes 
now given to this service.
There is no mention Ive seen in the messages about Mr D selling laptops and phones to the 
person he received the money from. And specifically in relation to the payment of £1,500. I 
dont have a credible explanation of why Mr D would have received money at that time from 
a different person. Or anything from the friend explaining this and as Mr D says, telling him 
that this was genuine. The explanation around the exchange of currency is a further one and 
involves his brother. And I dont see evidence about how this related to the sale of laptops 
and a phone when Mr D says that his friend was in this country, and he planned to go round 
to see him. And as our investigators said Mr D made no mention on his complaint form to 
this service about selling such items to him  just that he had money abroad.
HSBC has shown that money obtained fraudulently entered Mr Ds account and that he 
accessed this. It asked for his version of events at the time and considered this. I dont think 
Mr D has provided a consistent and so plausible explanation. I think Mr D had reason to 
doubt that the payment of £1,500 was a genuine one and I find it unusual that hed a bank statement about this. To me that shows some doubts. And Im unclear why hed accept this 
payment as genuine. He hasnt linked any specific laptops or phones he had to this 
transaction. And at one time he said he sold these to a friend, and he now says he had 
money from selling items abroad. 
Im making my decision on what I think is most likely. Having balanced all the evidence I find 
it most likely that Mr D was deliberately complicit in what happened and was responsible for 
receiving and using a fraudulent payment.
In summary HSBC says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr D received fraudulent 
funds into his account. So, Ive looked at whether HSBC was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that HSBC needs to have enough information to make a 
formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ds account of events and the evidence HSBC has provided, Im 
satisfied that it had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr D received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to HSBC at the 
time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- HSBC had grounds to believe that Mr D had used fraudulently obtained funds based 
on the evidence it had.
In view of this it closed his account in line with the terms and conditions. I know Mr D will be 
disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to require HSBC to do anything 
further.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman