DRN-4293211
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his accounts.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr A has held accounts with Barclays for several years. Mr A has told us he suffers with 
mental health issues and is known by members of staff at his local branch to be vulnerable. 
Last September 2022 Mr A visited his local branch. Barclays says that whilst Mr A was in a 
side office, he threatened a member of staff and there was an altercation. Other members of 
staff became involved, including the branch manager, and Mr A was persuaded to leave. 
The Police were not called.
Barclays branch manager has explained that due to Mr As volatile behaviour and the most 
recent experience in branch they took the decision to close his accounts and give 30 days 
notice. A letter was issued to Mr A but his address was registered at the local branch. So the 
letter wasnt sent to an address Mr A was residing at.
When Mr A next visited the branch a short time later, he was advised his account would be 
closed and asked to withdraw all his money. Mr As accounts were closed by branch staff on 
the same day.
Mr As sister has told us she later found him living rough. Mr A explained his accounts with 
Barclays had been closed and he had no access to his benefits. Mr As sister (Mrs V), went 
on to raise a complaint with Barclays and spoke with it on his behalf. Mrs V explained Mr A 
suffered with significant mental health conditions which means his behaviour can be erratic. 
Mr As told us that he doesnt recall the incident in branch that led staff to take the decision 
to close his accounts.
Barclays sent Mr A a final response in December 2022 and upheld his complaint. Barclays 
said it shouldve done more to let Mr A know about its decision to close his accounts and 
went on to reopen them. Barclays also paid Mr A £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Mr As complaint was forwarded to this service and passed to an investigator. Within 
its file submission, Barclays said its branch staff shouldnt have closed Mr As account in the 
way it had. Barclays explained that Mr A was recorded on its systems as being vulnerable 
and that, in the circumstances, his accounts shouldve been referred to a specialist support 
team to manage the closures and ensure he was provided with the relevant notice period. 
Our investigator thought Barclays had dealt with Mr As case fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else.
On Mr As behalf, Mrs V asked to appeal. Mrs V said it was unfair for Barclays to close his 
account without notice, leaving him without access to his benefits. Mrs V also pointed out 
branch staff were aware of Mr As vulnerable state when it closed his account, leaving him 
without banking facilities. As Mrs V asked to appeal Mr As complaint, its been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the key events surrounding Mr As complaint. Mr A has told us that his mental health 
issues mean his behaviour can be erratic at times, but doesnt recall the specific incident that 
led to the accounts being closed. Branch staff have confirmed they know Mr A and have 
acted as his bank for several years. Branch staff have told us Mr A can be challenging at 
times and that the issue that led the accounts to be closed wasnt isolated.
Businesses can choose to end a banking relationship with a customer for various reasons. 
Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions and can see they allow Barclays to close 
accounts by giving notice in certain circumstances. And Barclays can choose to close an 
account without giving any notice in other situations, like when an account holder is abusive 
or threatening. So Im satisfied the relevant account terms do allow Barclays to take a 
decision to close accounts.
The issue here is that Barclays has confirmed its branch staff know Mr A and were aware 
hes vulnerable. Barclays has provided systems evidence to show an Extra Care note was 
attached to Mr As customer profile and explained that instead of taking the decision to close 
his account, branch staff shouldve referred his case to a specialist support team that works 
with vulnerable customers. Given what branch staff knew about Mr As circumstances, he 
shouldve been referred to a specialist team but that didnt happen. And I think there was a 
significant impact on Mr A as a result.
The branch manager has explained he wrote Mr A a letter in September 2022 requesting he 
visits the branch to discuss his account with the manager. Mr As told us he was homeless at 
the time, so his address had been amended to the same as the branch. The manager says 
Mr As address was amended to the branchs after he raised concerns about housemates 
stealing his post. Either way, the branch manager should have been aware that sending a 
letter to the branch asking Mr A to attend the same branch wouldnt have been received. 
That meant, when Mr A next visited Barclays in October 2022 he wasnt aware of any issues 
following his previous attendance. And Mr As account was essentially closed without 
providing any notice, with him being asked to withdraw all the available funds on the same 
day.
Mrs V has confirmed Mr A was homeless at the time and the way his accounts were closed 
meant he was without access to banking facilities so he couldnt access benefit funds. Given 
branch staff appear to have been reasonably aware of Mr As vulnerable situation, I think the 
way his accounts were closed was unfair. And Im satisfied there was a significant impact to 
Mr A by failing to refer him to a specialist support team that couldve tailored Barclays 
approach to closing his accounts and ensure the impact of doing so could be reduced as far 
as possible.
I can see Barclays reopened Mr As accounts when it responded to his complaint in 
December 2022. But by that point, Mr A appears to have moved his banking arrangements 
to another business so the accounts have remained unused and inactive. I can see Barclays 
paid £200 compensation into one of the accounts when it responded to Mr As complaint but 
those funds remain.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded that a payment of £200 (in 
addition to reopening Mr As accounts) is a fair way to resolve his complaint. In my view, that figure fails to recognise the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A taking his 
circumstances at the time into account. In my view a higher payment to reflect the impact of 
the removal of Mr As banking facilities without providing any support to a vulnerable 
customer is fair. I think a payment of £800 more reasonably reflects the impact of the issues 
raised on Mr A and is a fairer way to resolve his complaint. So based on the available
information, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint and direct Barclays to pay him a total of 
£800 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to respond with any additional points or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mrs V responded and said she was pleased her 
brothers experience had been recognised in the provisional decision. Mrs V also provided 
an update on Mr As current circumstances and explained that he hasnt opened new 
accounts elsewhere so continues to bank with Barclays. Barclays responded to confirm it is 
willing to settle in line with the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased Mrs V has confirmed she feels her brothers complaint has been fairly 
considered and weve reached a fair outcome. As neither party has provided new 
information for me to consider, Im going to proceed in line with the settlement I reached in 
my provisional decision and uphold Mr As complaint. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay him a 
total of £800 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V on Mr As 
behalf to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman