DRN-2955901
The complaint
Miss G says Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) irresponsibly lent to 
her. 
What happened
Savvy provided the following loan to Miss G:
Date Taken Date 
RepaidMonthly 
instalmentsAmount Monthly 
repayment
29/06/2017 Outstanding 18 £1,750.0
0£194.43
Miss G told us that she took out this loan when she was in a desperate situation because of 
the amount of debt she was in and that Savvy should not have provided the loan to her. She 
felt that Savvy based its lending decision on her income and expenditure when it should 
have taken more note of the adverse information it saw on its credit checks and also made 
further checks to verify her financial situation. Miss G told us that taking out this unaffordable 
loan has seriously affected her mental health. The loan has been partly paid but there is an 
outstanding balance still owing. 
One of our adjudicators tried to mediate the complaint. This led to Savvy negotiating early 
settlement terms with the new debt owner, but Miss G didnt feel this went far enough to 
settle her complaint. 
The case was looked at by another adjudicator who didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Miss G disagreed with our adjudicators view and she has asked an ombudsman to look at 
her complaint. 
So it comes to me to decide. 
In summary, the key points Miss G is mainly concerned about seem to me to be that:
Savvy didnt do enough checking before lending  especially as she had asked to 
borrow a £3,000 loan when she first applied 
also, Savvy could see information on its credit checks that showed her credit cards 
were nearly maxed to their limit and she was also making full use of a £250 bank 
overdraft option and she had been in a debt management plan (DMP) just a couple 
of years before 
as well as this, Miss G had told Savvy she had £1,200 in pay day loans and four 
credit cards Savvy so she felt Savvy should have asked for proof of those loans to 
ensure they were correct  she told us that her bank statements would have shown 
she was using payday loans to boost her monthly income and revealed the full extent 
of her actual debt  which included a £2,000 loan taken out in April 2017 not shown 
on Savvys checks 
Miss G is also unhappy that after it agreed to hold off applying a default on her 
account Savvy then sold her loan to a third-party debt collection agent  following 
which a default was applied on her credit report in relation to her account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Miss Gs complaint.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G could 
repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Savvy was required to establish whether Miss G could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make the repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
When Miss G applied for this loan, Savvy asked her for information about her finances and 
carried out a credit check. It also checked what shed said about her salary using an online 
tool and recorded her minimum monthly income as £1,450. It allowed for her having to make 
monthly outgoings of approximately £812  which included the payments Miss G was 
already making to service her existing credit commitments. Savvy calculated that Miss G 
should have approximately £443 left to spend after making the contractual monthly 
repayments for this loan.
Taking all this into account, these figures didnt suggest that Miss G would have any difficulty 
meeting the loan repayments for this loan. 
Ive seen the results of the credit check Savvy did at the time. As Miss G has said, these 
showed that she had used a lot of her available credit. Savvy saw that four of her credit 
cards were close to their credit limit and she had a mail order account that had slipped £88 
over the £2,000 account limit just that month. She was also using her £250 bank overdraft.
But I think its fair to say that the information Savvy had gathered tended to suggest that 
Miss G seemed to be managing her credit without any obvious signs that she had a serious debt problem. It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have 
other debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily 
be fair reasons not to lend. I dont think the amount of debt shown on Miss Gs credit checks 
was excessive having regard to her income and her circumstances. Miss G wasnt currently 
involved in any sort of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. She 
had no active county court judgements registered and no recent defaults on her record. 
Id expect Savvy to decide Miss Gs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit 
search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. 
This is why information that Miss G might expect to see on her bank statements or her own 
credit check, including other short term loans, may not have been identified by a credit check 
done by Savvy when she applied for this loan. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything Miss G has said and 
I appreciate she feels strongly that Savvy shouldve known she was in financial difficulties at 
the time it lent to her. Miss G has offered to send me her bank statements to support what 
she says.
But I dont think it was unreasonable for Savvy to lend here  especially as there wasnt 
enough, in the information it had collected, to suggest Miss G wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. 
And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Savvy to probe any more deeply 
into Miss Gs finances or ask Miss G to prove what she was declaring (by requiring her to 
send in her bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify what 
she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. 
I've carefully listened to the call recording with the underwriter who went through Miss Gs 
income and expenditure details. 
The underwriter questioned the purpose of the loan and Miss G said she wanted to clear 
three loans - there was some discussion about what the settlement figures would be - and 
she would use the remainder towards her credit card balances. 
I appreciate that Miss G had hoped to borrow a larger loan for this purpose. But I think that 
the value of the loan Savvy worked out that Miss G could afford, compared to the scale of 
her debts, suggests that she could still have usefully applied the loan towards repaying 
enough debt to be worthwhile for her as part of a longer term plan to manage her debt more 
effectively. 
Im sorry that Miss G had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved difficult 
for her. I accept that in reality Miss Gs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected 
either in the information she provided, or the other information Savvy obtained. But in order 
to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when it made its lending decision. And, in this case, I dont think that Savvy did anything 
wrong  the loan amount it provided looked affordable based on the information it had 
gathered and there wasnt anything else shown in its checks that shouldve prompted Savvy to decline the loan application altogether or carry out more in-depth checks before it agreed 
to lend. So Im not upholding Miss Gs unfair/irresponsible lending complaint.  
Ive thought carefully about whether Savvy acted towards Miss G in some other way that 
wasnt fair and reasonable. I've listened to the call recording when she phoned Savvy to 
discuss the options open to her to avoid further action following the default notice she had 
received. Miss G offered new payment terms that were agreed. On that basis Savvy said it 
could withhold the default if Miss G stuck to the payment terms she had proposed which 
would have led to the loan being cleared within a year or so. Subsequently, Savvy sold her 
account to a third-party debt collection agent. Shortly after that, a default was registered on 
her account.
I can completely understand why Miss G was anxious to avoid a further default on her credit 
file and I appreciate that she feels strongly about this aspect of her complaint. Savvy told 
Miss G that it would hold off putting on a default - and it did. It later seems to have made a 
business decision to sell her loan  which it was entitled to do - and a default was put on her 
account by the new debt owner. 
So I havent seen enough to say that Savvy was responsible for the default showing on her 
account or that it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it sold her account  or, looked at 
overall, that Savvy acted towards Miss G in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
And I havent seen anything to make me think this is a case where it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to award any redress. 
If Miss G wants to complain about the actions of the third-party debt collection agent she can 
do so  but this would be a new and separate complaint. To progress this, Miss G should 
first tell the third-party debt collection agent why she is unhappy about the action it took to 
register a default so it has an opportunity to explain. Hopefully this will lead to a resolution. 
But if this doesnt resolve her complaint, Miss G can then bring her complaint to this Service 
and we will investigate. 
Miss G has raised several different complaint points over the course of this matter. If I have 
not referred to every point shes raised its because I have nothing further I can usefully add 
to what our adjudicators have said already. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the 
main points that affect the outcome of his complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Miss G and Im sorry. 
But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
I would just mention that Miss G is entitled to expect the new debt owner to treat her 
positively and sympathetically if she is continuing to experience financial difficulty. 
I would encourage Miss G to provide details of her financial situation to the new debt owner 
if she still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. 
And if Miss G would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman