DRN-3335840
The complaint
Mr M complains that his credit card provider, NewDay Ltd, hasnt done enough to help him to 
recover money he paid to a third party as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr M is registered as a clinically vulnerable person. He had an online profile with an acting 
and modelling website. He was approached by A, who held himself out to be a producer and 
agent. Over time and using a variety of methods, A persuaded Mr M that he would produce a 
showreel that would lead to film and other work. Mr M paid A a total of £790, which he says 
was to include photography and film production tutorials. Mr M used his NewDay credit card 
in connection with some of the payments, totalling £540.
None of the services A promised took place and he ceased contact with Mr M. Soon 
afterwards, Mr M realised hed been scammed. He raised his concerns with various 
organisations including the police, Trading Standards, Action Fraud, and his MP. Mr M also 
made a claim against NewDay under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He felt that he had entered into a contract with A 
on the basis of misrepresentation, and that A was also in breach of contract. 
NewDay declined to meet Mr Ms claim. It didnt consider there was sufficient persuasive 
evidence to show that it was liable to him. Mr M was unhappy with NewDays position and 
complained to it. However, the bank wasnt minded to change its position and so he referred 
matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think NewDay had treated Mr M unfairly in the absence of any clear 
contractual terms that established a concluded agreement between Mr M and A. He also felt 
it would be incumbent on Mr M to provide further evidence in support of his claim, such as 
emails and records of telephone calls hed had with A.
The investigator also considered it unlikely that the way in which the transactions took place 
would enable Mr M to make a successful claim under section 75. He said the payments 
werent made directly to A using the NewDay credit card; rather, the card was used to fund 
Mr Ms personal account with P, an electronic money issuer and payment services provider. 
The funds had then been sent to A from Mr Ms account with P. He thought this interfered 
with the section 75 requirement that the transaction was made under arrangements between 
the debtor (Mr M), the creditor (NewDay) and the supplier (A). 
Mr M was unhappy with the investigators conclusions. He and his legal representative have 
asked for matters to be reviewed, with particular regard to the arrangements involving P and 
how they affect the debtor-creditor-supplier link.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say, first of all, that I have a good deal of sympathy with Mr M and his situation. Ive 
spoken with him at some length and Im in no doubt hes been the victim of a particularly 
cruel scam that preyed on his vulnerability, and this makes it all the more distasteful. 
However, in considering how NewDay has dealt with Mr Ms claim, I have to take an 
objective view based on the banks potential liability, rather than on the actions of A.
In this respect, the investigator has raised the question of whether Mr M can bring a claim 
under section 75 at all, due to the way in which the transaction arrangements were 
structured. As Mr Ms legal representative has noted, the involvement of P isnt in itself 
sufficient to break the link between the parties  the key question is the role P played and 
how in particular this affected the dynamic between NewDay and A.
What is apparent here is that Mr M wasnt able to pay A directly by credit card in the way he 
might if A were a retailer or other merchant. That suggests that there was neither a pre-
existing arrangement between NewDay and A, nor that the payment was made in 
contemplation of future arrangements, as required to meet the debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement definition in section 12(b) of the CCA.
That there was such an arrangement between NewDay and P isnt in dispute. But I dont 
think that helps Mr M; his claim relates to As actions rather than any breach or 
misrepresentation on Ps part. And the position Ive referenced above is reinforced by the 
information P itself has provided. This demonstrates that the payment to A came from 
Mr Ms electronic money account with P, rather than under an arrangement between 
NewDay and A.
As such, I cant properly find that Mr M has a valid claim under section 75 against NewDay, 
as the essential elements of that section are not in place in this situation. It follows that the 
banks response to Mr M, while not addressing this aspect, did not put him at a material 
disadvantage.
Its important I note that this finding is not a reflection of my thoughts on what happened to 
Mr M. It might be that he has a potential complaint against P, albeit for different reasons from 
a section 75 claim. It isnt appropriate in the context of this decision for me to address that 
potential complaint. However, I will be contacting Mr M separately in respect of that matter, 
in line with our rules (see DISP 3.5.2G in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, while I have every sympathy with his situation Im unable 
to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman