DRN-4061989
The complaint
P a limited company complains about the way that Revolut Ltd handled a payment request.
P is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr P.
What happened
P asked Revolut to pay an amount in Euros to another business. The payment was held up 
and P says this meant it had to borrow money at a higher rate of interest. P also said that the 
payment delay caused reputational damage and wasted time. 
Revolut told P that the delays happened because of the regulatory process that Revolut and 
other parties must follow. Revolut referred P to clause 22 of its business terms which allow it 
to refuse or delay a payment. Revolut credited Ps account with £100 in recognition of the 
distress experienced by Mr P.
After bringing Ps complaint to this service, Revolut offered to pay a further £50 for the 
inconvenience caused by the payment failure. 
The investigator didnt think Revolut had done anything wrong when it withheld money to 
allow checks to be carried out. The investigator noted that once Revolut had completed its 
checks, the payment was refunded to Ps account in early November 2022. The investigator 
thought a total of £150 compensation fairly reflected the inconvenience to P. 
Mr P disagrees with the investigation outcome. He says he asked Revolut to explain the 
delay on multiple occasions. Mr P doesnt understand how Revolut delayed the payment for 
three months just to clarify details about an individual. Mr P asks whether he should also 
take Ps concerns up with the bank that held up the transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Ps complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
I should also say that the complainant is limited company P, which is its own legal entity. 
This means I cant consider the stress that Mr P has felt personally. I can only consider the 
impact that any mistake or unfairness may have had on P.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but having considered Ps complaint, I agree with the 
investigator that Revolut doesnt need to do more than its already done and offered. 
The rules that govern this service allow us to receive evidence in confidence. Some of the 
information Revolut has provided is information that I consider should be kept confidential. 
It appears that P sent money using the SWIFT network.  This process will often involve an 
intermediary or payment processor that manages the logistics of getting money to the 
intended recipient. 
In the case of the payment P wanted to make, it looks as though the payment processor 
asked for further information as part of its compliance checks. From what Ive seen, Revolut 
responded within a reasonable timeframe and then continued to chase for responses. As the 
payment was being held up by a third party, I cant say that Revolut was to blame or that it 
failed to try and engage with the third party. 
As I dont find that Revolut made a mistake with the payment, it follows that I dont require it 
to compensate P for any financial or reputational impact it felt because the payment didnt 
arrive with the intended recipient. 
I appreciate Mr P struggled to find out from Revolut exactly what was happening to the 
payment. The regulatory processes that Revolut must follow means that it cant always 
share every detail with a customer. However, I recognise that Mr P spent time contacting 
Revolut to find out what was happening with the payment. I assume this diverted him away 
from running the business of P. I consider the compensation paid and offered by Revolut of 
£150, fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to P. For the avoidance of doubt, this 
compensation is made up of £100 already credited to Ps account and the further £50 
offered by Revolut.
The investigator has already given Mr P details of the payment processor so I leave it with 
him to decide whether to take matters further on behalf of P. But for all the reasons outlined 
above, I dont require Revolut to do more than its already done and offered to do. Im sorry if 
this comes as a disappointment to Mr P.
My final decision
Revolut has already made an offer that I think is fair. So, my final decision is that if it hasnt 
already done so, Revolut Ltd should pay P £50 in addition to the £100 already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman