DRN-3284509
The complaint
Miss G complains that Everyday Loans Limited, trading as Everyday Lending, lent to her 
irresponsibly in relation to one loan approved in February 2020. 
What happened
Everyday Lending approved a loan of £1,000 for Miss G on 2 February 2020. It was to be 
repaid over 18 months at £124.53 a month. It was repaid on 11 January 2021.
After Miss G had referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, one of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint. At first he thought that Everyday Lending had not got it 
right approving this loan for Miss G. Then Everyday Lending reaffirmed that the reasons 
given for needing the loan was to pay off two other debts, and our adjudicator reassessed 
the complaint. His second view was that the reduced monthly cost to her having used the 
Everyday Lending loan to pay off those other two debtors meant that Everyday had got it 
right and the loan looked affordable.
Miss G disagreed and told us that all the information used was incorrect. But Miss G did not 
give us details as to which parts are incorrect. The unresolved complaint was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two questions that I need to 
answer to decide Miss Gs complaint fairly and reasonably. These are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that 
Miss G would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss G wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss G undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
Everyday Lending carried out some checks before it lent to Miss G. This included asking for 
details of her income and expenditure, carrying out a credit check, requesting a payslip and 
bank statements. It calculated Miss Gs regular living expenses using statistical data and 
assessed her monthly credit commitments. Ive seen a summary of the information gathered 
by Everyday Lending, including the credit report and bank statements provided to it at the 
time. From what Ive seen, I think the checks that it carried out before lending to Miss G were 
reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
And I see that Everyday was told by Miss G on the telephone before it approved the loan 
that there were three other lenders she wanted to pay off and remove herself from them 
completely. 
One was a payday loan and as we have information about Miss Gs lending record with that 
company on our own records then I looked to see if she did pay off that loan. It appears that 
it was paid off on 13 February 2020 which was the day after the Everyday Lending loan was 
approved. 
Another was a high cost instalment lender and again we have records relating to Miss G for 
that lender. Having reviewed those details I see that Miss Gs last loan with it was 
22 December 2019 and its likely Miss G did pay that down and did not borrow from that lender again. 
The other creditor she wished to remove from her life was one which approved a limit for 
Miss G and then that money could be drawn down when she needed it. Having looked at the 
bank statements Miss G provided Everyday Lending in February 2020, I have seen that 
Miss G drew down £620 on 31 January 2020 and on 3 February 2020 that lender took the 
payment for it of £715 out of her account. That was how that lender worked and I understand 
if she had found that difficult to manage. And so, the £1,000 essentially replenished her 
current account with that £715 and gave her money to repay the other lenders which she 
appears to have done. 
Consequently, having obtained the £1,000 from Everyday Lending and having paid off those 
other lenders as it appears she may have done, then Miss Gs outgoings would have been 
reduced substantially. And having reviewed all the information revealed in the bank 
statements and the credit searches Everyday Lending looked at in February 2020, then 
I agree that it does appear to have been affordable.
Miss G had provided to Everyday Lending copies of her saver account as well and having 
reviewed those I can see that she used it to transfer her salary in and out and by 
7 February 2020 she had £60 in it. 
Everyday Lending carried out proportionate checks and acted on the information Miss G told 
it - she was going to use the money to pay down other debts therefore reducing her debt 
commitments substantially. 
I do not uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman