DRN-1589276
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was irresponsibly sold a loan by HSBC UK Bank Plc. He states at 
the time the loan was provided he wasnt able to make financial decisions due to an 
ongoing medical condition. He seeks compensation.
What happened
Mr C tells us that in September 2017 he visited a branch of HSBC and took out a loan 
agreement for £6,000. And an overdraft facility of £2,000. At the time he says his behaviour 
was affected by a health condition and that this shouldve been apparent. He feels he was in 
no state to agree to the loan and that it should not have been provided to him. He says that 
HSBC staff have since accepted that the loan shouldnt have been made.
HSBC told us that it was unaware of Mr Cs medical condition at the time the loan was 
offered on 6 September 2017. And that the loan had been processed by an experienced 
member of staff who hadnt recorded anything to suggest Mr C wasnt able to properly enter 
the agreement. It said that when it became aware of Mr Cs condition a few weeks later it 
said that its representative had discussed various issues raised by Mr C. And had been 
satisfied he was happy to continue with the loan.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
insufficient information to show that the loan had been mis-sold. And he felt that HSBC had 
offered appropriate assistance going forward.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I empathise with Mr C and the health issues that hes experiencing. And I understand that 
this might result in changes in behaviour, along with stress and concern. Im sorry that its 
taken rather a long time for this decision to be made. And I regret the uncertainty that this 
produces.
Mr Cs complaint is that he was provided with this £6,000 loan at a time when he was 
displaying symptoms of his medical condition. And wasnt properly able to make financial 
decisions.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
Mr C visited a branch of HSBC in early September 2017. He was granted a personal loan 
and an overdraft facility. I can see that before these facilities were granted there was a check 
made with a credit reference agency. Ive inferred that this check satisfied HSBCs 
requirements.
Ive seen medical evidence provided by Mr Cs consultant. I accept that at the time the loan 
was taken out hed been receiving treatment. Although I would add that a business shouldnt 
discriminate against an individual or refuse a loan solely on the grounds of a disability or 
health condition. Unless its such that at the time of the loan it would prevent the individual 
having the capacity or ability to properly decide to enter an agreement. Or to affordably 
repay the loan.
Where its alleged that a loan has been made irresponsibly or otherwise mis-sold, its 
important for me to emphasise that my decision is based on the circumstances known to the 
lender at the time the loan offer was made. Or facts that it ought reasonably to have known 
from any checks which should have been carried out.
Part of the dispute here concerns what happened at the time the loan was made. Mr C 
referred to making unusual entries and drawings on some paper and felt that this should 
have alerted the representative to his condition. He thought that the staff member was likely 
to have considered their interview as bizarre.
As I wasnt present, Ive to rely on Mr Cs recollection, together with any other information 
such as notes of the meeting and other documents.
Where information is incomplete, or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive viewed a copy of the signed agreement and other pre-sale paperwork. Ive seen where 
Mr Cs signature appears to have been written by him. And the three examples of his 
signature appear to be similar. Certainly theres no sign of any additional unusual writing or 
annotations. Nor are there any notes to suggest bizarre behaviour.
HSBC has also advised that there is no CCTV available. Which given the time lapse 
between the loan being made and the subsequent complaint in 2019 is not surprising.
Ive viewed letters from a consultant that refer to appointments with Mr C, both in the month 
before September 2017 and shortly after the loan was taken out. Whilst confirming aspects 
of Mr Cs condition they dont, in my opinion, suggest that at the time they were written that 
he wouldnt have had the requisite capacity or ability to enter an agreement.
Around three weeks after the loan was granted, Mr C again visited the branch on 25 
September 2017. And at this time disclosed his medical condition. Ive viewed the notes that 
HSBC recorded of the meeting. They appear to be comprehensive and show that relevant 
issues were discussed at length. The note states that the representative discussed the terms 
and length of the loan with Mr C. Along with affordability and whether the loan had been sold 
irresponsibly. The note also suggested that the opportunity for Mr C to repay the loan was 
made. But had been declined. It concluded that Mr C was happy with the arrangement and 
with the ability to make increased payments to reduce its term. Along with a more favourable 
rate of interest on an overdraft.
Whilst subsequent behaviour isnt necessarily indicative of whether a loan was affordable or 
properly made, Ive noted that from October 2017 until the complaint was brought in 
December 2019, payments were maintained. This is consistent with the understanding of the representative and the notes from the meeting of 25 September 2017.
Im aware that Mr C believes that some members of HSBC staff now accept that the loan 
shouldnt have been granted. Ive listened to a phone recording in which Mr C is having a 
discussion with one such staff member. Apart from that person having the benefit of 
hindsight and information not available at the time the loan was processed, the impression I 
gained was that the concern being expressed was due in large measure to the belief that Mr 
C had made unusual writing and drawings at the time the loan was granted. And that the 
representative processing the application had ignored this.
As theres insufficient information to show this to be the case, I dont consider that an opinion 
formed on this basis is something upon which I can rely.
In summary, I find theres insufficient information to show that at the time the loan was 
granted HSBC knew, or ought reasonably to have known, of Mr Cs medical history. And 
how this mightve impacted on his ability to properly agree to the loan. When it became 
aware of the situation, I find that it acted appropriately and made proper enquiries to ensure 
that Mr C understood and wished to continue with the agreement.
Accordingly, I do not find that the loan was made irresponsibly or was unaffordable.
Going forward, HSBC needs to treat Mr C with forbearance and due consideration. And I can 
see that its Vulnerable Customer Team is fully aware of Mr Cs condition. And that steps 
have been taken to offer assistance.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman