DRN-2315557
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with what Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) did after he 
made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D has a dispute with his local authority who issued him with a notice to remove a fence 
and hedge which it said was obstructing a bridleway.  In early 2019 Mr D contacted LV as he 
wanted to challenge a notice requiring the removal of the hedge. Panel solicitors didnt think 
the claim was one Mr Ds policy covered. 
LV sought further assessment from an alternative firm but the solicitors it approached were 
unable to act due to a conflict. LV issued a final response to the complaint Mr D made about 
this at the end of July 2019. That complaint has been considered separately and the 
investigator found it wasnt one we could consider (as it had been referred to us late).
n August 2019 Mr D asked if hed be covered for an appeal against a decision the court had 
reached on the notice. LV said this might be covered but would require a positive opinion on 
its prospects of success. It confirmed it would fund a barristers opinion and would pay £150 
an hour (plus VAT) for solicitors costs in preparing the paperwork for this; it asked if Mr D 
would be happy for it to contact his solicitor to discuss this. 
Mr D responded in mid December to say he hadnt appealed the court decision but the 
position of the boundary remained undecided. He outlined developments since then and 
queried whether the policy would provide cover to challenge the local authority on the 
boundary issue. LV said it would fund counsels opinion on whether this claim had 
reasonable prospects of success. Mr Ds solicitors werent prepared to do the preparatory 
work for the amount offered. 
There were further discussions over whether Mr D could find a more local solicitor who 
would do that. In January LV agreed to pay for a direct access barrister to pay for the 
prospects assessment. That opinion was received the following month and said the claim 
didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success.
Our investigator didnt think LV had done anything wrong; it agreed to fund a barristers 
opinion in August 2019 but Mr D hadnt got back in touch until December. He didnt think 
there was then any delay by LV in moving matters forward. And he thought LV was entitled 
to rely on the opinion that had now been provided. 
Mr D didnt agree. He felt we should consider what had happened since March 2019. And he 
said LVs decision on the rates it would offer had prevented him having a proper choice of 
solicitor. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr D feels we should consider what happened over the full period since he first 
made his claim to LV. However, LV issued a final response on the earlier issues in July 2019 
and weve considered that as part of a separate complaint. And the investigator concluded 
that complaint had been brought to us out of time. So those arent matters Im considering in 
this decision. 
I can consider whats happened since that final response was issued. But I dont think LV 
has done anything wrong here. In common with other legal expenses insurance policies 
Mr Ds says that for a claim to be covered it needs to have a reasonable chance of success. 
It defines that as more than a 50% chance that you will win the case and achieve a positive 
outcome.
So I think LV was right to advise Mr D in August that any cover would be subject to that 
requirement being met. And it offered to fund a barristers opinion and to pay solicitors costs 
associated with this. But it didnt hear from Mr D again until December. It looks like Mr D may 
have been confused about what LV was offering; I note in a subsequent email to his 
solicitors he said hed misunderstood the extent to which LV would cover the initial 
evaluation. And in its email LV did offer to contact his solicitors direct to discuss matters. I 
think if Mr D had agreed to that it would have resolved any confusion over the amount 
offered. 
When Mr D got in touch in December LV again agreed to fund a barristers opinion as to 
whether that claim had reasonable prospects of success. And it said it would fund costs in 
relation to that assessment at £217 an hour which is in line with the guideline hourly rates for 
an experienced solicitor in Mr Ds area of the country. 
Mr D says the rate offered by LV meant the freedom to choose his own solicitor was 
unreasonably restricted. However, while Mr D would have the freedom to choose his own 
solicitor from the point proceedings need to be started that only applies where a claim has 
been accepted under the policy. In this case LV hadnt accepted the claim because it hadnt 
yet established whether it had a reasonable chance of success  the rate it offered was to 
pay for work in relation to that. 
And Mr D was able to find a local solicitors firm who were prepared in principle to work for 
the hourly rate LV had offered. I appreciate that due to other commitments they werent able 
to do so but that doesnt suggest the rate offered by LV was unreasonable. In any case Mr D 
then queried whether LV would fund a direct access barrister to carry out the assessment 
which LV agreed to. That happened just over a month after Mr D contacted LV about this 
claim. Given that period included the Christmas break I dont think discussions over hourly 
rates in any event caused a significant delay in this claim being moved forward. 
The barristers opinion was the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. Ive seen 
that opinion and I think its properly written and reasoned and from someone suitably 
qualified (the barrister has particular expertise in land disputes). So think LV was entitled to 
rely on it when concluding Mr Ds claim wasnt one that his policy covered. I appreciate Mr D 
may disagree with that opinion and, as our investigator advised, if he can obtain a contrary 
legal opinion from another barrister then Id expect LV to look again at the claim.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 January 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman