DRN-3817043
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Landmark Mortgages Limited (Landmark) has declined their 
request to extend the term of their mortgage. They say there are several issues with their 
mortgage which affect the fairness of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have an existing an interest only mortgage with Landmark. This has three sub-
accounts to it; the initial mortgage was taken out in 2003, a product switch and additional 
lending in 2005, and a further secured loan taken out in 2007. The term of the product taken 
out in 2005 ends on 1 November 2023, with the loan from 2007 due to end in March 2027.
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs J asked Landmark for an extension to the term of their mortgage. 
They asked for a minimum of 10 years but ideally 15-18 years. Mr J primarily dealt with the 
mortgage adviser who undertook an information gathering exercise and an affordability 
assessment.
Mr J explained that he hadnt been working for a couple of years but that hed started 
working again as an independent financial adviser (IFA) in January 2020. This meant that he 
couldnt provide the evidence requested in relation to his more recent income, but he did 
have earnings from before he stopped working in 2018 to support his projections of his 
future earnings. Mr J also explained the context behind their other assets and debts.
In July 2020, Landmark declined Mr and Mrs Js request to extend the term of their mortgage 
on an interest only basis. It said this was because based on its affordability assessment - it 
didnt think this supported Mr and Mrs J being able to afford the monthly payments. 
Landmark acknowledged their circumstances and said it would review the matter again once 
Mr J could provide two years of trading to demonstrate his income.
Mr and Mrs J complained about the following:
1. That they had been mis-sold an interest only mortgage with a high-risk repayment 
strategy when they should have been advised to take out a repayment mortgage.
2. There were inaccuracies in the initial mortgage documentation  and in June 2020 
Mrs J couldnt pass security because the mortgage had her forename down 
incorrectly.
3. Landmark declined Mr and Mrs Js request to extend their mortgage on an interest 
only basis. They think they should have been allowed an extension until they were 
eligible for equity release. This has caused a great deal of stress and impacted Mr Js 
mental health as hes worried about losing their family home.
4. Landmark shouldnt have asked extensive questions if it would never have offered 
any products or extensions. Mr and Mrs J think it has breached the General Data 
Protection Regulations (GDPR) and that it only wanted to gather information on their 
assets for its own purposes.
5. Mr and Mrs J say the interest rate Landmark has been applying to their mortgage is 
unfair  they think its higher than other lenders and equivalent to subprime mortgage 
lenders.
Landmark didnt uphold the majority of the complaint points. It accepted Mrs Js forename 
had been recorded incorrectly on the original mortgage paperwork and apologised for this. 
However, it said that:
It wasnt involved in the sale of the property or mortgages and the 2005 product 
switch was non-advised.
It wouldnt extend the mortgage as the affordability assessment didnt support the 
payments being affordable, including on an interest only basis.
The information it asked for was relevant to its assessment of Mr and Mrs Js request 
and so it hasnt breached GDPR.
The interest rate had been applied in line with the mortgage agreement and was 
comparable with other mortgage providers. There is not an applicable early 
repayment charge if Mr and Mrs J wish to re-mortgage.
When Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to our service, Landmark confirmed it didnt 
consent to our service looking at some elements of their complaint on the grounds that they 
had been brought too late. This included:
The sale of the mortgage and suitability of an interest only mortgage (rather than a 
repayment mortgage).
Inaccuracies in the original paperwork.
Interest rate changes that took place more than six years before Mr and Mrs J 
complained to Landmark.
The investigator agreed we couldnt consider these events as they had taken place more 
than six years before the complaint was raised with Landmark. And Mr and Mrs J were 
aware or ought to have been aware they had an interest only mortgage, of any inaccuracies 
on the original paperwork, and the interest rate being applied to their mortgage. There were 
no exceptional circumstances preventing Mr and Mrs J from raising a complaint in time. 
Mr and Mrs J appear to accept our service doesnt have jurisdiction in the above matters.
Over the course of the complaint, the investigator also concluded:
They didnt think there had been any significant impact or distress caused to Mr and 
Mrs J as a result of Mrs J failing to pass security in June 2020. Landmark apologised 
and updated its records quickly and so they didnt think an award was appropriate. 
Landmark informed Mr and Mrs J in 2015 that it didnt offer new products. Mr and 
Mrs J were notified of interest rate changes on their account and the changes were 
made fairly and in line with their agreement.
It was reasonable for Landmark to expect repayment. Landmark had gathered 
information to assess Mr and Mrs Js request for an extension and it was reasonable 
for it to decline this request based on affordability in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree, in summary they said:Landmark shouldnt have gathered information from them if it would never have 
agreed to a term extension and this amounts to a breach of GDPR.
Interest rates were high considering the status of the lending and original mortgage.
They have been continuously self-employed for twenty years.
Landmark hasnt responded to the investigators most recent view, and so I have taken it to 
have accepted the investigators findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
For clarity, I agree with the position that has been shared with both parties to this complaint 
in relation to our services jurisdiction (our ability to consider the complaint. I.e. that certain 
elements of the complaint have been brought too late as set out above. As this isnt in 
dispute I wont go into further detail.
Mr and Mrs J appear to have raised the issue of Mrs Js forename being incorrectly recorded 
as an example of one of the numerous issues they have had with Landmark rather than 
describing any serious impact this incident had on them. As Ive said, Im not considering the 
initial error (due to the time thats passed) only the call in June 2020 in which Mrs J couldnt 
pass security. Having listened to the call and considering that Landmarks records were 
updated quickly, I agree that Landmark has done enough to put matters right once aware of 
the issue.
Mr and Mrs Js request for a term extension.
Mr J contacted Landmark in March 2020 to explain that their circumstances had 
changed, and they wouldnt be able to repay their mortgage at the end of the term. 
Landmark explained that it couldnt offer new products but that it could provide 
variations. At this point, whilst Landmark was entitled to expect repayment the end of 
the term, it was right to consider what changes it could make to help Mr and Mrs J  
in particular to consider what would be in Mr and Mrs Js best interests.
Here, Mr and Mrs J requested a term extension. In the context of Mr and Mrs Js 
request, it was reasonable for Landmark to gather information from them in relation 
to their finances to establish both whether they would be able to maintain their 
payments if an extension was agreed, and whether they had a reasonable plan for 
repaying the mortgage balance at the end of the extended term.
Mr and Mrs J say Landmark would never have agreed to extend the term of their 
mortgage and so it shouldnt have gathered their personal data. However, I dont 
think that Landmarks decision to decline a term extension in the circumstances 
means it never would agree to do so. Landmark has confirmed it would consider a 
term extension where appropriate, as it is expected to, and it provided its reasons 
based on the information gathered for its decision. If Mr and Mrs J feel Landmark 
have breached their data protection rights, then the appropriate organisation to raise 
this with is the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But in terms of whether it 
has treated Mr and Mrs J fairly in relation to considering their request for a term 
extension, I think it has. This is because Landmark was asking for relevant information to determine whether it would be in Mr and Mrs Js best interests to agree 
a term extension.
Several possibilities were discussed with Mr J, including equity release and switching 
to a repayment mortgage once Mr and Mrs Js circumstances changed. Ultimately 
Landmark concluded that its affordability assessment didnt show that Mr and Mrs J 
could afford the payments if it extended the term of the mortgage and so I dont think 
it was unreasonable to decline the request in the circumstances.
Landmark agreed to review Mr and Mrs Js request again in two years. I think this 
was reasonable because at the time Mr and Mrs J had more than three years before 
any part of their mortgage reached the end of its term. And Mr J had provided 
information about their circumstances, plans, and expectations which would 
significantly alter their financial position before then. This included changes to Mr Js 
income, Mr Js ability to demonstrate an income over a sustained period of time, 
property they were selling, and other debts they expected to repay. A review at that 
point would be able to take their updated financial position into account. 
I understand Mr J has described how stressful it is having uncertainty over something 
as important as their home. But for the reasons explained I dont think Landmark has 
acted unfairly.
The interest rate applied to Mr and Mrs Js mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage has a variable interest rate which includes a loyalty 
discount on Landmarks standard variable rate (SVR). 
Mr and Mrs J say that the interest rate that has been applied to their mortgage over 
the years is unfair and too high. As Ive explained above, I can only consider this 
complaint point in relation to interest rate variations that took place during the six 
years prior to them raising this issue and not before this, which is what Ive done.
The way the applicable interest rate operates and importantly details such as how, 
for what reasons, and when, Landmark can change the interest rate are set out in the 
mortgage offer documents and relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage.
Our service has also obtained from Landmark  on a confidential basis due to the 
commercially sensitive nature of it  detailed information and evidence explaining the 
reasons for each interest rate variation, including its cost of funding. Having 
considered these, Im satisfied that the changes have been made fairly and in line 
with the mortgage terms and conditions.
I note that Mr and Mrs J were correctly notified of each interest rate variation at the 
time and there isnt an applicable early repayment charge (ERC) on the mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman