DRN-4468735
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In late 2022, Mr B was recommended a trading mentor by a family friend who said theyd 
made significant returns. He spoke to his family about it, then gave his details. He spoke with 
the trading mentor regularly and built a rapport, and says they had a professional-looking 
website and good reviews. But the trading mentor turned out to be a scammer.  
The scammer convinced Mr B to take out a £15,000 loan, send the funds from Barclays to 
another account of Mr Bs, then have the money sent onto the scammer. Later, when family 
members tried to withdraw their profits, they were told they needed to pay a fee. Mr B 
realised hed been scammed.
Mr B reported the scam to Barclays. It wasnt possible for Barclays to recover the money. 
But they acknowledged they shouldve flagged the payments and refunded 50% of the loss, 
along with paying 8% simple interest and a further £150 compensation for the time they took 
to deal with the complaint.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought Barclays had already resolved 
things fairly. Mr B didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr B fell victim to a scam, and so he has my sympathy. I appreciate this 
cant have been an easy time for him, and I appreciate why he feels that his money should 
be returned. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammer whos primarily responsible for 
what happened, and who really owes Mr B his money back. But I can only consider what 
Barclays did. Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, 
I think Barclays have already resolved things in a fair way. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr B authorised the payments. So although he didnt intend the money 
to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations he is liable for the loss in the 
first instance. And broadly speaking, Barclays had an obligation to follow his instructions  
the starting position in law is that banks are expected to process payments that a customer 
authorises them to make. 
Barclays should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. And they accept that they should have flagged the payments 
involved here.
As our investigator explained, even if Barclays had asked reasonable probing questions or 
given Mr B scam warnings, its difficult to definitively conclude that the scam wouldve been 
uncovered. After all, Mr B was introduced to the scammer by a trusted family friend rather 
than cold called. This family friend had supposedly already made good returns themselves. 
There were good reviews about the scammer online, and at that time, the regulatory 
warnings that exist now hadnt been issued yet. From what Mr Bs sent of his contact, Ive 
not seen any significant coercion by the scammer. And while, as Mr Bs representatives 
pointed out, scam websites do often have a good online presence, so do legitimate 
websites. So a good online presence by no means necessitates that the website is a scam.
With that said, I do acknowledge that there were signs that this was potentially a scam, and 
so its possible that Barclays could have prevented the loss by intervening. But even if I held 
Barclays responsible on that basis, I could not hold them solely responsible for the loss.
I would also need to carefully consider Mr Bs role in what happened. And Im afraid I think 
Mr B ought to have had more concerns along the way about what he was being asked to do. 
He took out a very large loan and spent it on high-risk investments based on the advice of an 
unverified, unregulated stranger hed never met in person. I cant see that he carried out any 
substantial due diligence or took any qualified independent advice, and he doesnt appear to 
have been given any proper documentation. So I would still find that Mr B should bear 50% 
of the responsibility for the loss. And Barclays have already refunded 50% of the loss, plus 
the 8% simple interest that I wouldve awarded.
I understand that there was some delay in Barclays dealing with the scam case and the 
resulting complaint. I find that the £150 compensation they paid is fair to put that right.
I do appreciate why Mr B would like his legal costs covered. But were a free service who 
resolve complaints informally in plain English  so there was no need to hire legal 
representatives to use us; that was Mr Bs choice to do so. So I cant fairly tell Barclays to 
refund those fees.
Lastly, Ive considered what Barclays did to try to recover Mr Bs money. But as he sent the 
funds from Barclays to another account in his own name, Im afraid there wasnt really 
anything more Barclays could do to help there.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find that Barclays Bank UK PLC have already resolved this 
matter fairly. I dont make any further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman