DRN-2619262
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Norwich and Peterborough (LBS) Limited (N&P) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1997 with a mortgage. 
The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs B if they couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
However Im not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
N&P has provided a copy of a letter it sent to Mr and Mrs B when their mortgage was being 
rearranged in 1997. It seems they wanted to take advantage of a fixed interest rate. The 
letter said:
The concession is subject to you complying with.the following conditions:-
b) accident, sickness and unemployment cover being arranged through our agency and 
maintained for the period of the concession.
Im satisfied that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the fixed interest rate that Mr and 
Mrs B wanted. 
I note that Mr and Mrs B consider the PPI wasnt a condition of the mortgage. But Ive seen a 
letter that they sent to N&P at the time. The letter said:
I am writing to confirm that we do want our mortgage to be transferred to the three year 
fixed rate.We have also received confirmationthat the Safeguard policy, which we did 
not want but was a condition of the fixed rate is in force
From what Ive seen, this suggests to me that Mr and Mrs B understood that the PPI was a 
condition of getting the fixed rate they wanted. I appreciate that they may not have wanted 
the cover, but it was a condition of the product they were interested in.
Theres nothing wrong with a lender making PPI a condition of the overall borrowing  thats 
a commercial decision and one I wouldnt challenge. So if Mr and Mrs B werent happy with 
N&Ps requirements, they couldve decided not to proceed with the borrowing.
I cant be sure that Mr and Mrs B were told what the policy would cost before they agreed to 
buy it. But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
they would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Theres nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs B didnt satisfy the eligibility requirements of the 
policy when taking it out. And their circumstances dont suggest they would have been 
caught by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as those affecting 
people with pre-existing medical conditions or self-employed people. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were entitled to sick pay, and that they had savings they couldve 
used to cover the mortgage if they couldnt work. So I appreciate why they might consider 
the policy wasnt very useful to them. But the PPI was a condition of the mortgage rate they 
wanted, so they had to buy it, despite their existing arrangements. 
Even if the cover hadnt been linked to the mortgage, I think its unlikely that N&P wouldve 
advised Mr and Mrs B on whether or not to buy it. So it wouldnt have had to check whether 
their existing arrangements meant the policy was suitable for them. Overall, therefore, Im 
not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Bs sick pay and savings means the policy was mis-sold.
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman