DRN-3368807
The complaint
Mr H complains about his insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for delays in handling a 
claim for damage to his vehicle from an accident.
 
In referring to Aviva, I include its agents and representatives.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr Hs vehicle was hit by a third-party vehicle. The third party left a note 
on Mr Hs vehicle. Mr H said that their insurer (A) initially accepted liability and told him he 
didnt need to contact his insurer. Mr H contacted a recovery firm (P) recommended to him 
by a friend to arrange for recovery of his vehicle. The following month Mr H was told by A 
that they werent going to continue with his claim against the third party, advising him to 
contact his insurer (Aviva).
 
Mr H contacted Aviva to tell them about the accident, including that his vehicle had been 
recovered by P and that storage charges were being incurred. Aviva contacted P to request 
removal of the vehicle to a different location, but P wouldnt release the vehicle until the 
storage charges had been paid. Aviva then agreed with P for their engineer to inspect the 
vehicle at the location it was being stored, but this didnt happen. An engineer from another 
company (not Aviva) did inspect the vehicle and after some confusion over who had sent the 
engineer, Mr H sent Aviva pictures of his vehicle, Aviva offered a settlement for the vehicle 
as a total loss (less a salvage value for the vehicle). Mr H was unhappy at the value offered 
for his vehicle (£6,000 market value less a salvage value of £1,680 so a net offer of £4,320), 
which Aviva agreed to review. Pending this, Mr H accepted an interim payment of £4,320.
But P wouldnt release the vehicle until the storage charges had been paid. Aviva didnt 
accept responsibility for the storage charges as they hadnt agreed to incur them. Unhappy 
at this position, and the delays in settling his claim, Mr H complained to Aviva.
 
In their final response, Aviva said that when Mr H made his claim, they asked their salvage 
agent (C) to collect his vehicle. When C contacted P, they were told there were outstanding 
recovery and storage fees of £1,325 from the date of the accident. Aviva didnt accept these 
charges as they hadnt agreed to incur them, but they agreed to pay £600 towards the 
overall storage costs (based on 30 days at what they thought was a fair daily rate of £20). 
On the value of his vehicle, Aviva apologised for the delay in the review, but drawing on 
industry valuation guides they thought the offer was fair and wouldnt increase it. But Aviva 
accepted that their communication with Mr H could have been better and they hadnt always 
set clear expectations. Acknowledging the delay in providing a valuation of his vehicle, Aviva 
said theyd pay interest (at 8%) to the date the claim was reported (£38.82). In recognition of 
the trouble and upset caused they also offered Mr H £150 in compensation.
Unhappy at Avivas response to his complaint, Mr H complained to this service. He asked 
that Aviva should settle all the storage charges for his vehicle and arrange for the collection 
of his vehicle and pay him compensation for how it had handled his claim.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint, concluding Aviva hadnt acted fairly. She thought it 
wasnt made clear to Mr H that Aviva wouldnt pay for the storage costs and as A had 
accepted liability for the incident (so it was a no-fault claim by Mr H) then Aviva should have 
taken responsibility for the storage costs when they were notified about the accident (and 
moved the vehicle to a free storage location, to mitigate ongoing storage costs). The 
investigator thought Aviva should pay the costs of storage from the date of the accident to 
when Mr H notified Aviva of the accident (£1,325) as well as from then to March 2021 
(£2,525). She thought it fair Aviva paid interest on the settlement for Mr Hs vehicle, given 
the delays. On compensation, she thought Avivas offer of £150 wasnt enough and that 
£250 would be a fairer sum.
Aviva disagreed with the investigator, and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
They said the policy made it clear a policyholder should contact them as soon as reasonably 
possible about an accident so they could assess the circumstances and deal with any 
associated claim. Also, a policyholder must not promise any payment without their consent, 
something Mr H hadnt done (by committing to the storage costs incurred by P, which Aviva 
hadnt agreed). Aviva also referred to previous decisions of this service where the insurer 
wasnt held responsible for storage costs before it became involved in an incident.
In my findings I concluded that Mr H should have told Aviva about the accident when it 
happened. While A might have told him initially that he didnt need to contact Aviva, I didnt 
think that should have precluded Mr H telling Aviva about the accident.
I also concluded that it was reasonable for Aviva not to accept the storage charges incurred 
before the date they were notified of the accident by Mr H, based on the decisions of this 
service Aviva referred to as well as the terms of the policy.
 
On the costs of storage from the time Mr H notified Aviva of the accident, I concluded that it 
would have been reasonable to expect Aviva to mitigate the ongoing costs of storage when it 
became aware of the accident. I thought Aviva could have settled the storage charges to 
enable the vehicle to be moved to one of its storage facilities, so reducing the ongoing 
storage costs, and then sought to recover those charges from the settlement of Mr Hs claim 
if it didnt consider them to be their responsibility. I thought it would be reasonable for Aviva 
to have done that by the start of 2021 (say 4 January). Based on this, I thought a reasonable 
outcome would be for Aviva to pay the storage costs from that date until the date to which 
the storage charges were calculated (£1,700) less the £600 theyd offered Mr H, if theyd 
already paid that sum). 
Because I reached different conclusions to the investigator, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role is to decide whether Aviva have acted reasonably towards Mr H.
The key issue in Mr Hs complaint is the storage charges for his vehicle following its recovery 
to P after the accident. Mr H believes that Aviva should reimburse him for all the charges. He 
believes that because the accident wasnt his fault, Aviva should pay the charges and then 
recover them from the insurer of the third party (A). For their part, Aviva maintain that they 
didnt agree to incur the storage charges from the vehicles recovery (until they were notified 
of the accident by Mr H). They feel theyve acted reasonably in agreeing to make a £600 
contribution towards the storage charges, even though they hadnt agreed to incur them.In considering this issue, Ive first thought about the period from the date of the accident (and 
recovery of the vehicle to P) through to the date when Mr H informed Aviva of the accident. 
Aviva say (under the terms of the policy) Mr H should have told them about the accident as 
soon as possible. And that he shouldnt have committed to the storage costs without their 
consent. They also refer to previous decisions of this service where the insurer wasnt held 
responsible for storage costs before it became involved in an incident. Having considered 
these points, I agree with Avivas position and Ill set out why Ive come to that conclusion.
Taking the points in turn, on the first Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. Theres a 
prominent reference on the front cover (and a similar reference on the back cover) to:
Had an accident? Tell us as soon as you can:
Please report all accidents to us immediately online ator you can call us on
Theres a similar reference on the back cover, which also states: If you receive any contact 
from another party in relation to your claim, please re-direct this to us and we will handle it 
on your behalf.
So, I think that Mr H should have told Aviva about the accident when it happened. While A 
might have told him initially that he didnt need to contact Aviva, I dont think that should 
have precluded Mr H telling Aviva about the accident, as they could then have contacted A 
to deal with the accident (and any associated claims and liability issues). 
On the second point, under the General Conditions that apply to the whole policy heading, 
theres a section 2. Claims Procedures (Your duties) that states:
Anyone claiming under this policy must not admit to any claim, promise any payment 
or refuse any claim without our consent.
I think its reasonable to understand that this means Aviva wouldnt agree to make payment 
that they hadnt agreed to.
On the third point, Ive looked at the decisions Aviva have referred to. Having done so, I 
agree thats the principle that we apply in those circumstances. While Mr H might have 
thought the costs could be recovered from A, as the third-party insurer, that should have 
been a decision for Aviva (not an assumption by Mr H).
Taking these points together, Ive concluded that it was reasonable for Aviva not to accept 
the storage charges incurred before the date they were notified of the accident by Mr H.
Ive then considered the period from the date Aviva was notified of the accident. At that point 
I would have expected them to make arrangements to move the vehicle to one of its own 
storage facilities where charges wouldnt have continued to accumulate, so mitigating the 
ongoing costs. While Ive concluded that it was reasonable for Aviva to be unwilling to pay 
the storage charges incurred before the date it was notified of the accident, the charges 
continued to be incurred because P wouldnt release the vehicle until theyd been settled. 
But neither Mr H nor Aviva was willing to settle the charges, so the vehicle remained with P 
and the storage charges continued to accumulate.
Ive thought about the circumstances and what would be fair and reasonable. Listening to 
the call recordings of the discussions between Aviva and Mr H, there are references from 
Aviva that they will accept charges from the date they were notified of the accident, but not before that date. Similarly, in one of the discussions, Mr H accepts that the costs of storage 
before he notified Aviva of the accident should (in his view) be for the third-party insurer. 
While it isnt an issue in his complaint to this service, Ive also noted that while Mr H wasnt 
happy with the initial settlement offer for his vehicle, Aviva making an interim payment of the 
market value offered, less the salvage value, meant that the vehicle remained the property of 
Mr H. In some of the call recordings Mr H also states his intention to keep the vehicle 
(potentially with a view to having it repaired himself). In that position, it could be argued that 
the charges from the date of the settlement (through to March 2021) should be the 
responsibility of Mr H as the owner of the vehicle. 
Ive thought about this carefully. However, given what Ive said about it being reasonable to 
expect Aviva to mitigate the ongoing costs of storage when it became aware of the accident, 
as well as indications from Aviva that they would cover the costs from the date of the 
incident, I dont think thats fair and reasonable. Aviva could have settled the storage 
charges to enable the vehicle to be moved to one of its storage facilities, so reducing the 
ongoing storage costs, and then sought to recover those charges from the settlement of Mr 
Hs claim if it didnt consider them to be their responsibility.
  
While the storage costs from the date Aviva were notified of the accident through to March 
2021 have been calculated at £2,525 (from an invoice from P), I think its reasonable that 
having been notified of the accident and the vehicles location at P, it would have taken 
Aviva time to arrange for the storage costs to be paid and the vehicle moved to one of its 
own storage facilities. Given the time of year, and the impact of Covid Pandemic restrictions 
at that point, I think it would be reasonable to say that Aviva could have done this by the start 
of 2021 (say 4 January). Based on this, I think a reasonable outcome would be for Aviva to 
pay the storage costs from that date until the date to which the storage charges were 
calculated (12 March 2021 from the invoice that Ive seen). At a daily charge of £25, that 
would be £1,700 (less the £600 offered, if theyve already paid that sum). 
Ive also considered the issue of compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered 
by Mr H. In their final response, Aviva acknowledged the trouble and upset caused to Mr H 
and offered £150 in compensation. Our investigator thought this wasnt enough, concluding 
that £250 was fair. Ive thought about the circumstances of the case, together with my 
conclusions about the issue of the storage costs. I think that £150 would be fair and 
reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decisions to uphold Mr Hs complaint in 
part. I intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay £1,700 towards the storage costs of Mr Hs vehicle (less the £600 
offered, if theyve already paid that sum).
Pay £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr H responded to say that he didnt think £150 was reasonable, given the amount of time 
hed spent on the phone to them and the delays. He also said that the only reason he didnt 
contact Aviva at the time of the accident was because A told him he didnt need to. Also, 
storage charges would have been incurred in any event, whether at Avivas own storage site 
or at P. While he was happy to keep his car at the time, he no longer wanted to and asked 
that Aviva collect the car and pay him the salvage value.
Aviva responded to say they broadly agreed with the recommendations in my provisional 
decision and accepted that, ideally they would have moved the vehicle to secure storage by 4 January (2021). While Aviva also thought the suggestion they pay storage of £25 a day 
from 4 January was fair and reasonable, they asked me to consider that a reasonable date 
for their responsibility for storage charges to end should be 2 February. That would have 
given Mr H a week to move his vehicle from storage (as he indicated at the time that he 
wanted to keep it) after Aviva had issued their settlement (net of salvage) on 26 January. But 
certainly, by 25 February (the date they issued their final response to Mr Hs complaint).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering Mr Hs points in turn, I appreciate that Mr H feels that £150 in compensation 
isnt reasonable, given the amount of time he spent on the phone to Aviva discussing his 
claim and what was happening. Id want to reassure Mr H that I have considered what hes 
said carefully, but Im still of the view that £150 is fair in the circumstances of the case, 
alongside my conclusions on the storage costs. On his point that he didnt tell Aviva about 
the accident because A told him he didnt need to, I can understand why he feels this way 
and that he doesnt think A treated him fairly. But his complaint is against Aviva, not A, and I 
still think he should have contacted Aviva at the time of the accident for the reasons I set out 
in my provisional decision. So, I havent changed my mind on this point. 
On the issue of storage charges being incurred in any event, the key is that Aviva would 
have been able to arrange for storage at one of the sites they use, under arrangements they 
have in place. And as I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think they should be held 
responsible for meeting the storage costs incurred by P. So, I dont think this changes my 
view on how the storage costs should be split.
On Avivas response, their main point is the date by which they think their responsibility for 
storage charges should end (either 2 February or 25 February). I can understand why they 
make this point, given that as Mr H had indicated he wanted to keep his vehicle, it remained 
his property and therefore the storage charges should be his responsibility. However, I 
considered this specific point carefully in my provisional decision, when I noted that the 
storage charges from the date of the settlement (through to March 2021) should be the 
responsibility of Mr H as the owner of the vehicle. Having done so, I concluded that, given 
what I said about it being reasonable to expect Aviva to mitigate the ongoing costs of 
storage when it became aware of the accident, as well as indications from Aviva that they 
would cover the costs from the date of the incident, I didnt think that would be fair and 
reasonable. As I said in my provisional decision, Aviva could have settled the storage 
charges to enable the vehicle to be moved to one of its storage facilities, so reducing the 
ongoing storage costs, and then sought to recover those charges from the settlement of Mr 
Hs claim if it didnt consider them to be their responsibility.
 
Aviva havent provided any new arguments on this point, so I havent changed my mind on 
what would be a fair and reasonable outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay £1,700 towards the storage costs of Mr Hs vehicle (less the £600 
offered, if theyve already paid that sum).
Pay £150 for distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman