DRN-4208896
The complaint
Mr M, director of P (a limited company) and Mrs M (Ps company secretary) are unhappy 
Tide Platform Ltd wont reimburse P for the money it lost when Mr M fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr M fell victim to a safe account scam. He received a text message, apparently from Tide, 
asking him to confirm if P had made a payment to a retailer. When Mr M called the phone 
number in the message so say P had made no such payment, he was told Ps account had 
been compromised and that he needed to move money to a safe account to protect it. 
Unfortunately, and unknown to him at the time, Mr M was actually speaking with fraudsters.
Mr M spoke to the fraudsters several times over two days, with many of these calls 
appearing to be from Tides legitimate phone number. And, believing that he was genuinely 
dealing with Tide, Mr M ended up making two payments, for £11,847.36 and for £83,149.12, 
clearing the balance of Ps Tide account.
After discussing what had happened with family, Mr M realised he had been the victim of a 
scam, and Mrs M immediately reported the matter to Tide to see if it could help stop the 
payments or recover the funds. Tide logged the fraud and contacted the banks the funds had 
been sent to, to see if any funds remained that could be recovered. Ultimately though, while 
it was able to recover a small amount from one of the recipient banks, Tide told Mr and 
Mrs M that it wouldnt be reimbursing P for the payments made from its account.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators looked 
into the complaint. Overall, they considered that while Mr M had authorised the transfers 
(albeit as a result of a scam) Tide should have done more to intervene when the second, 
much larger, payment was made. They felt Tide should have contacted Mr M directly, rather 
than relying on any written warnings it had provided. It was our Investigators view that, had 
Tide done so, it was more likely than not the scam wouldve unravelled, and part of the loss 
wouldve been prevented.
Our Investigator also considered that Mr M  on behalf of P  wasnt partly to blame and 
shouldnt bear any responsibility for the loss. Our Investigator recommended Tide refund the 
second payment to P, plus interest.
Mr and Mrs M, on behalf of P, accepted the Investigators findings, but Tide disagreed. It did 
not consider that either of the payments was unusual enough to have been flagged given the 
way P usually used its account, and noted that it had provided warnings  that the payee did 
not match what had been input by Mr M, and via a message asking for a one-time passcode 
 which Mr M had ignored. It also noted that even though the scam took place over a couple 
of days Mr M had made no attempt to contact Tide about what was happening through the 
in-app chat function, which is how he would usually correspond with Tide.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Its not disputed that Mr M, on behalf of P, authorised the payments that are in dispute here. 
So as per the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in 
place) that means P is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mr M was 
the unfortunate victim of a scam.
Because of this, P is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Tide acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with P, or whether it should have done more than it did.
There was regular activity on Ps account for the months in the run up to the scam, and P did 
regularly make large payments out to third parties. On 5 October 2022 Mr M made the first 
payment to the scammers of £11,847.36, this was to a new payee and did clear the balance 
of the account, but given that in the preceding months P had made many payments of a 
similar size, I dont consider that this particular payment should have flagged as unusual to 
Tide.
The next day, 6 October 2022, Mr M made another payment to the scammers, after Ps 
account received an inward payment of £83,149.12 that Mr M had been expecting. This 
whole amount was immediately transferred out, once again this was to a new payee and 
cleared the balance of the account. This payment was far in excess of any previous payment 
made out of the account, the highest payment P had made in the previous few months was 
for £50,000, significantly less. With this in mind, and given the large payment the previous 
day, and that Ps account had twice been completely cleared of its balance in a short period 
of time, I do not think that this activity, taken as a whole, was usual for Ps account. I think 
the activity was unusual enough that Tide ought to have been alerted to the possibility of 
financial harm and intervened.
I acknowledge that this is a business account, which are usually operated differently to 
personal accounts in that they deal with higher payments and new payees more often. 
However, while keeping this in mind, with this particular business account, I dont think the 
payment in question was the norm.
Considering the nature of the scam, I think a conversation about what the payment was for 
would have quickly revealed the scam and prevented the second payment from being made. 
Mr P doesnt appear to have been given a cover story to use by the scammer, and he 
already though he was talking to Tide, so if hed been unable to progress with making that 
payment until hed been forced to speak to the real Tide, then I think hed have been open 
and honest about what was happening. With this in mind, I think it would be reasonable for 
Tide to refund the second payment, as I consider that payment could have been prevented.Ive thought about whether P should bear some responsibility for its loss by way of 
contributory negligence, but I dont think it should. Mr M fell victim to a sophisticated scam, 
he was contacted on phone numbers that appeared to be genuine Tide numbers. I 
appreciate that Tide says Mr M didnt try to contact it on the in-app chat, but given that Mr M 
appears to have been completely convinced that he was already speaking to Tide, I can 
understand why he didnt feel the need to do so. In the circumstances of the scam  
including the real fear that he might lose a significant amount of Ps money  I can 
understand why the fraud went undetected by Mr M.
With the benefit of hindsight, there may have been some red flags (for example the 
mismatch in the confirmation of payee and the message sent with the one-time passcode) 
that Mr M couldve picked up on, particularly if hed had more time to think. But the scam 
took place over a relatively short period of time and in a pressured situation. This is of 
course a deliberate tactic by the fraudsters to create fear  in the hope it would disrupt 
Mr Ms thinking and make him more compliant. On balance, Im satisfied that in the 
circumstances Mr Ms actions were not unreasonable.
I have also considered if Tide did enough to try to recover Ps money once Mr and Mrs M 
had told it of the scam, and Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that, aside from the 
small amount already recovered, the funds had already been moved on by the scammers by 
the time Mr and Mrs M reported the fraud to Tide. So Im satisfied Tide couldnt have done 
more to recover Ps money.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Tide should:
- Refund the second payment  minus any funds already recovered
- Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from 6 October 2022 to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Tide Platform Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P and P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman