DRN-2857518
The complaint
Miss W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS) didnt treat her fairly when she experienced financial difficulties 
after losing her job due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In January 2019 Miss W was supplied with a new car under a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement was for £28,678, with an initial payment of £1,084, followed by 48 
monthly repayments of £349, and a final payment of £9,785.00.
Miss W said she lost her job due to Covid-19 in March 2020, and informed VWFS of her 
change in circumstances. She said that because of her type of work, and her own health, 
she was unlikely to find work for some time. She said she couldnt afford to pay the monthly 
payments and if she did find work, it was likely to be on reduced hours. She said she told 
VWFS that she wouldnt be able to make the monthly payment due on 1 April 2020 and 
wanted to give the car back, with nothing further to pay, and with no impact on her credit file.
She said she spoke to VWFS and found them to be unhelpful. She said they told her she 
couldnt hand the car back. She said she was given two options: pay £8,000 and hand the 
car back, or sell the car for £19,000 and pay off the agreement. She said these options were 
unreasonable, and unrealistic. She said shed never missed a payment and losing work 
because of the pandemic was the only reason she wanted to hand the car back.
She said she couldnt get in touch with VWFS, so she spoke to the dealer who supplied the 
car, and they gave her a form for people in financial difficulties. Miss W said shed been told 
clearly by the dealer she could hand the car back.
This form was for customers with financial difficulties relating to COVID-19. In the form Miss 
W explained she wanted to hand the car back. VWFS responded to this form on 18 April 
2020  they said they didnt consider a payment holiday was suitable for Miss W because of 
the impact on the interest, the contract term, and value of the car. They did offer her 60 days 
breathing space at this time. This would mean her monthly payments would still be due on 
the 1st of each month, but they would not chase her during this time if any payments were 
not made in full.
Miss W wasnt happy with how VWFS treated her. She said shed shared her medical history 
on the basis that she would be able to hand the car back, but VWFS hadnt agreed to this. 
Shes also unhappy that VWFS said she didnt apply for a payment deferral but she thinks 
she did.
VWFS said Miss W contacted them on 26 March 2020. They said they were not offering 
payment deferrals at this point, so explained the normal end of contract options to her.
VWFS sent their final response to her complaint in September 2020. They said they hadnt 
received a payment deferral request from her. They said theyd offered breathing space in 
April 2020 for 60 days. This would have meant she didnt need to make payment for 60 
days, and then the agreement would need to be reinstated.
They said they were unable to assess her eligibility for a payment deferral as they hadnt 
received a request. This meant no changes had been made to her agreement.
VWFS said they understood Miss W couldnt make payments at that time and they offered 
her six months before they would contact her to arrange a payment plan. They said they also 
explained that she needed to consider exiting her agreement if she couldnt make 
repayments. They said they set out the exit options for her.
In November 2020 VWFS asked Miss W to submit evidence of her health conditions, and an 
income and expenditure form. They also set out her exit options. At that time they were: 
Voluntary Termination -  £5,405 plus £2,799 arrears, or 
Sell the car and pay balance of £20,420. 
They also said they were willing to consider a lower balance if Miss W had to sell the car for 
lower than £20,400, and invited her to submit a quote from a dealer.
In December 2020 VWFS contacted Miss W again, asking her which option she wanted to 
take. She sent her Income and Expenditure form, and repeated her wish to return the car 
with no further payments to be made. She also told them that she couldnt afford payments 
on a cheaper model so this wasnt an option for her. 
VWFS told our investigator Miss W never applied for a payment deferral following the 
guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 27/04/20. They said theyd 
placed a COVID-19 marker onto Miss Ws agreement as soon as she told them she was  
impacted by COVID-19. They said the marker was applied even when a customer has not 
applied for a payment deferral.
They confirmed theyd removed the adverse markers from Miss Ws credit file in February 
2021.
Our investigator felt that VWFS handling of her payment deferral request caused confusion 
for Miss W, and that they hadnt given her a clear explanation of what she needed to do. She 
also felt that they shouldve amended Miss Ws credit file sooner than they did. She 
suggested VWFS pay Miss W £200 compensation.
But she felt that it was reasonable for VWFS not to accept the return of the car with nothing 
further to pay. She thought theyd fairly set out the options available to Miss W. 
Miss W didnt agree with the investigator, and asked if VWFS would accept the return of the 
car, given the way theyd handled the matter. VWFS agreed with the investigator, but said 
they wouldnt agree to Miss W returning the car with nothing further to pay.
Miss W then offered to hand the car back and pay the outstanding arrears, but VWFS didnt 
accept this offer. They said they were willing to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Miss W.
Miss W was also unhappy that VWFS asked her to provide medical information. She thought 
shed been asked to provide this information so that fees and shortfall could be waived. She 
now feels it was an invasion of her privacy. Our investigator felt VWFS had reasonably 
asked for this information and sought her consent to record it. She felt theyd used it 
appropriately and not shared it with any other party.Miss W wants an ombudsman to consider the matter again, including what she describes as 
VWFSs invasion of her privacy, their gross misconduct and unprofessionalism. She also 
said the option of paying the arrears is no longer available to her, and seeks an affordable 
payment plan from VWFS  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss W was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, 
its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Before I address the specifics of Miss Ws complaint, Ill summarise the FCAs guidance on 
the financial impact of COVID-19 on customers and their ability to make payments on 
regulated motor finance agreements. The FCA expected all firms to provide support for 
customers experiencing temporary financial difficulties as a result of COVID-19 related 
issues. On 24 April 2020, the FCA issued guidance saying that firms could grant a payment 
holiday (referred to as a payment deferral) for up to 3-months. And on 17 July 2020 the FCA 
issued further guidance saying, if a customer was unable to resume full payments after an 
initial payment deferral, a further payment deferral period of up to 3-months should be 
offered.
The purpose of the guidance was to provide temporary support for those facing a loss or 
reduction in income as a result of coronavirus.
This guidance made clear that payment holidays or deferrals would not suitable in all 
circumstances. It was also clear that this was only a temporary solution. It required firms to 
consider the longer term effects on the customers situation  and mentions this might 
include taking into account if the deferral would increase the customers overall debt burden. 
The FCA also stated that other solutions may be more suitable for customers, and that firms 
should offer other forms of forbearance where payment deferral was obviously not in the 
customers interest.
It was clear that the guidance required firms to consider appropriate forbearance for 
customers who could not afford payments after the deferral period. And where a payment 
deferral was obviously not in the customers interest, firms should offer other ways to help. 
This included, for example, reduced payments or a rescheduled term.
As well as the specific guidance related to Covid-19 issues, VWFS are required to follow the 
guidance in the FCA Handbook (available online). The part of the guidance relevant to this 
matter can be found in CONC 7, Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession). 
This says that firms should consider consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. This could be in the form of waiving interest, deferring 
arrears payments, accepting token payments etc.
The first issue Ill consider is the confusion around whether or not Miss W requested a 
payment deferral. Theres no dispute that she completed and sent VWFS a form titled 
financial difficulties relating to COVID-19. She did this on 26 March 2020 via email. Miss W 
told us she was advised to fill in this form by the dealership as she could not get through to VWFS.
When they received the form, VWFS told Miss W why they didnt think a payment holiday 
was suitable. So Im satisfied that she was told there wasnt a payment deferral in place. 
The FCA guidance on car finance agreements affected by circumstances related to the 
coronavirus pandemic wasnt issued until 24 April 2020. So when Miss W submitted the 
form, Id have expected VWFS to follow the existing guidance in CONC 7. They offered Miss 
W 60 days breathing space so that she could seek advice and consider her options. They 
also said they wouldnt pursue her for missed payments during this period. I think that 
response was reasonable and fair, and in line with the guidance.
Miss W said she was unhappy that she continued to receive arrears letters from VWFS. 
They issued Notices of Sums In Arrears, and Default notices under section 87(1) of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 after shed filled in the payment deferral form. These are formal 
notices that VWFS were required to issue, and provide customers like Miss W with up to 
date information about the arrears accruing on their agreement. VWFS couldve sent Miss W 
some additional information to explain why theyd issued these notices. This is in line with 
the FCA guidance issued in July 2020. But it wasnt unreasonable for them to issue the 
notices to Miss W.
I dont think Miss W wanted or sought a payment deferral. Shes been consistent in 
asking that VWFS take the car back, and cancel the agreement with nothing further to 
pay. VWFS have been clear to her that this is not an option under the agreement.
So the next issue I need to consider is whether or not VWFSs response to Miss W was fair 
and reasonable. The agreement she entered into sets out the options for consumers who 
wish to terminate an agreement early. This includes her right to return the car without 
paying any more. This is a right given under sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit 
Act. Both the Act and the agreement make clear that this right only applies once youve 
paid half the amount due under the agreement. Miss W hasnt paid that amount.
Had Miss W paid half, she would have been able to return the car. So its reasonable, and 
in line with the agreement, and the law, that  VWFS have not accepted this option. And I 
wont be asking them to do that.
Theyve reasonably set out the options available to Miss W, and its for her to decide which 
option best suits her circumstances.
Im also satisfied that VWFS have treated Miss W reasonably, and with appropriate 
forbearance as required in the FCA Handbook. She told VWFS in October 2020 how this 
was affecting her mental health. Shes unhappy that she was asked to provide medical 
evidence to understand her health condition. I think it was reasonable for them to do this 
so that they could consider what additional support to offer Miss W.
I can see that theyve offered six months breathing space to allow Miss W to consider her 
options. Again, this is in line with whats required in the FCA Handbook, and what I 
consider to be reasonable. And theyve said theyre willing to consider a lower settlement if 
Miss W wasnt able to sell the car for the value required to clear the balance.
I agree with our investigator that VWFS took too long to amend her credit file. They told us 
they didnt do this until February 2021. I accept they were also affected by the pandemic, 
but Miss W told them in March 2020 about her situation. This has caused additional upset 
to Miss W  this couldve been avoided if VWFS had taken steps earlier to amend the 
credit file, in line with the FCA guidance.I have every sympathy with Miss Ws situation, but while I consider I should uphold her 
complaint I do not believe she is entitled to hand the car back with nothing further to pay.
They explained the options available to her, on more than one occasion, and offered 
breathing space so that Miss W had time to seek financial advice. That was a reasonable 
approach for them to take, and is in line with the expectation that they treat consumers in 
financial difficulty sympathetically.
I do however, remind VWFS that Miss W is a vulnerable customer, who is in financial 
difficulties, and that when agreeing a suitable repayment plan they should treat her positively 
and sympathetically.
I find that VWFSs communication about payment deferrals and the form she submitted 
couldve been clearer. And they couldve amended her credit file a lot sooner than they did. 
And on those grounds only, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Putting things right
VWFS should pay Miss W £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ws complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited  trading as Audi Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman