DRN-2631321
The complaint
Ms T complains that NewDay Ltd  trading as Aqua  were irresponsible in approving a 
credit card for her because she thinks it was unaffordable, and she says she was vulnerable 
due to her poor mental health at the time. 
When I refer to what Ms T has said, and Aqua have said, it should also be taken to include 
things said on their behalf.
  
What happened
In April 2016 Ms T took out a credit card with Aqua. Ms T says that, at the time, Aqua should 
have never offered her a credit card because she thinks, if they checked her credit record, 
they would have seen she was struggling and was late with payments for things such as rent 
and council tax. Ms T says, had Aqua checked her credit record properly and done proper 
affordability checks before giving her the credit card, they would have seen that the offered 
credit was unaffordable. 
Ms T says Aqua later increased the credit limit on this credit card irresponsibly at the time 
when she was using a very high level of her credit limit, and she says this should have 
indicated to Aqua she couldnt repay her balance within a reasonable length of time. Ms T 
says that, by increasing her credit limit, Aqua made her financial position even worse. She 
says that Aqua took her vulnerable position for granted and she has suffered a great deal of 
distress, which in turn had a negative impact on her mental health. 
In April 2019 Aqua wrote to Ms T and said they are a second chance lender and allow for 
negative information on a credit report, as these accounts have been designed for helping 
consumers with a lower credit rating. They said that, as a responsible lender, when deciding 
to offer credit they considered the information Ms T supplied on her application and the 
information held at the credit reference agencies. They said that, when they made the credit 
assessment as part of her application, Ms T informed them she was self-employed with a 
gross annual income of £20,000 and had other household income of £2,400. They said that, 
at the time she was not in arrears and had no public records on her credit report. They said, 
while they appreciated that she had a default, this was seven months prior to her application 
and the amount was within the limits of their policy. So, they stated that she met their 
acceptance criteria to be provided with a credit card that had a credit limit of £600. 
In this correspondence they go on to say that, as part of their commitment to responsible 
lending, they regularly review how their customers are using their cards, along with how they 
are managing their other credit commitments, and they make risk-based assessments to 
ensure they are lending appropriately. They say this type of review may result in either an 
increase or a decrease in the credit limit. In November 2016 Ms Ts account was reviewed, 
and she became eligible for a credit limit increase from £600 to £1,000. So, they said they 
wrote to her and provided the opportunity to opt out of the increase which they say she 
chose not to do. They say a further account review took place in March 2017 and again they 
say Ms T was eligible for a credit limit increase from £1,000 to £1,500. And, once again, they 
say they have no record of Ms T contacting them to opt out. Regarding Ms Ts personal 
circumstances or her medical conditions present at the time of her credit application, Aqua 
said they would have no way of knowing about these because this line of questioning does 
not form part of their application process. And, they said that, had Ms T made them aware of 
her situation, they may have taken this into consideration.
Ms T was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Aqua disagreed with the 
investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Amongst other things, I have considered the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
When looking at this type of a complaint I need to consider three main questions in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
The first question is:
1. Did Aqua complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
Ms T would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did Aqua make a fair 
lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what they knew 
about Ms Ts circumstances?
b. If reasonable and proportionate checks were not completed, would such checks 
have shown that Ms T would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
The second question is:
2. Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each credit limit increase, was there 
a point where Aqua ought reasonably to have realised they were increasing Ms Ts 
indebtedness in a way that was unsuitable or otherwise harmful, and, as such, 
should not have provided further credit?
The third question I need to consider is:
3. Did Aqua act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And if I think Ms T has been disadvantaged in any way by Aquas actions, then I will 
consider what is a fair way to put things right.
Did Aqua complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Ms T 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Aqua were required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to assess Ms Ts 
ability to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These, sometimes called affordability checks, need to be borrower-focussed (considering Ms Ts specific circumstances) and, in 
addition, to the creditworthiness assessment, to see if she could have afforded to repay the 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. So, Aqua needed to consider the impact of any credit 
payments on Ms T, and not just the likelihood of getting their money back.
There is no set list of checks Aqua needed to complete. But the checks should have been 
proportionate to the circumstances, and what is reasonable and proportionate will vary 
depending on a number of factors such as, but not limited to the:
- Amount of credit;
- Duration (or likely duration) of the credit;
- Frequency of the repayments;
- Amounts of repayments;
- Total amount payable;
- Total charge for credit; and
- Consumers individual circumstances, including their lending history.
The list above is not exhaustive, and what is considered proportionate may vary as any of 
the above factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to be.
Did Aqua complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Ms T 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Aqua say that Ms T declared that she had an annual income of £20,000, and that the credit 
reference agency that they used, confirmed no arrears or public records. They say that, 
whilst there was a default, it was seven months prior and for £100, so they say it was within 
their policy and they accepted Ms T for an Aqua account with a credit limit of £600.
Aqua says that they didnt request bank statements at the time, as they believe that they 
were not required to do so. Instead, they used scoring methods to assess Ms Ts credit 
worthiness and, when assessing suitability for a credit limit increase, they say they used an 
internal account management data and external information provided by multiple credit 
reference agencies. They also say that there was no indication from Ms T in regard to her 
medical conditions at the time. So, although they say they sympathise with Ms Ts 
circumstances, the account opening was done in line with their policy at the time.  
Ive considered the above, but Aqua, in addition to a creditworthiness assessment, needed 
to see if Ms T could have afforded to repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner 
considering her circumstances. I understand that Aqua feels that because Ms T declared 
that she was self-employed with an annual income of £20,000, and had other household 
income of £2,400, they say the repayments would have been affordable considering that the 
limit was only £600. But it is Aqua that were required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate checks of Ms Ts ability to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. I dont 
think it is reasonable for them to rely solely on the information given by Ms T, and this does 
not absolve them of their responsibility to carry out appropriate and proportionate checks. 
Aqua says that Ms Ts default was seven months prior and only for £100, so they say it was 
within their policy to still provide her with a credit limit of £600. But I think, considering that the default was for a very low amount, and it was only seven months prior to the credit 
application being completed, this ought to have raised flags for Aqua that Ms T might have 
been struggling financially. This in turn, should have made Aqua do more to understand 
Ms Ts circumstances at the time, as I dont think they had enough information to enable 
them to carry out a reasonable creditworthiness assessment. 
I can see that Aqua on their underwriting notes indicated they considered Ms T had 
approximately £1,400 total unsecured credit debt before approving her for the £600 credit 
limit. But they had no other information regarding her other commitments. They noted she 
was renting but have not indicated how much she was paying in rent. They have also not 
taken into consideration Ms Ts other commitments and expenditures such as day to day 
living expenses. I see that outside of her credit commitments, Aqua did not know what other 
committed expenditure Ms T had. So, without this information, I dont think Aqua could 
reasonably conclude that the credit was affordable and sustainable for Ms T. And 
considering they already knew that seven months prior, she had a default potentially due to 
having difficulties paying off small credit amounts, I think it would have been reasonable for 
them to find out more about her situation.
I acknowledge Aqua noted in their file that Ms T declared that she was self-employed for five 
years and making £20,000 gross plus an addition income of £2,400. But they themselves 
identified that this was below average. So, considering this, and the fact that outside of her 
credit commitments, they knew nothing of her other obligations, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Aqua to have verified Ms Ts income. Especially as they also knew that she 
had recently got a default for not paying back a very small amount of money. 
So, considering all of the above, I do not think Aqua carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy themselves Ms T would be able to repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable way. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms T could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
As Ive concluded that Aqua didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks, I will now 
consider whether their lending decision likely ought to have been any different if 
proportionate checks had been carried out.
I cant be certain what evidence, information or what questions Aqua would have asked and 
reviewed had they picked up on the concerns Ive mentioned above. But I think if they asked 
Ms T about her expenses at the time, they most likely would have found out that her rent 
payment was £1,250 per month, and that her electricity bill was £130 per month. She was 
also spending about £250 on food and clothing per month, plus £100 for medication each 
month. In absence of anything else, I think the information available from Ms T is a 
reasonable indicator of the type of evidence or information Aqua would have likely found out 
about Ms Ts expenditures, had they completed reasonable and proportionate checks at the 
time of borrowing.   
So, it appears that her ongoing commitments totalled around £1,730 a month. To this we 
need to add a repayment amount for her credit facilities. Ms Ts credit facilities had a total 
credit limit of around £1,400, so I think any reasonable estimate of what a sustainable 
repayment Ms T might have been required to make on these, would have been around £60 
a month. That would mean that her total monthly expenditure, not including the Aqua credit 
card she was applying for, would be around £1,790 a month. Her total gross declared annual 
income was £22,400, which would be approximately £1,530 net a month. As such, it seems 
she would be left with no disposable income. So, I dont think Ms T could sustainably repay any further credit, and I think Aqua would have likely found this out, had they completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks at the time of borrowing.   
I know Aqua has questioned how Ms T has been able to maintain payments to them and 
other creditors for over two years, considering the figures above. But Ms T has told us that 
her daughter has been helping her out financially, including paying for her council tax and 
rent. I have been provided with a copy of Ms Ts bank statements from the time of the 
borrowing. And, I have reviewed the monthly statements for the six months prior to Ms T 
being granted the credit card. Im not saying that Aqua should have asked for bank 
statements. I only asked Ms T for bank statements because I wanted to clarify if her 
daughter was helping her at the time. And I can see that a significant portion of the incoming 
money into Ms Ts bank account seems to be from cash deposits and payment transfers 
from her daughter. So, Im satisfied that is why Ms T was able to maintain certain payments. 
Taking everything into consideration, had Aqua done more to establish Ms Ts financial 
circumstances by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think most likely they 
wouldnt have approved her for the credit card. From the above it is clear that the credit card 
in question was not affordable, and Ms T couldnt sustainably repay this credit without relying 
on borrowing or on family for help. I know family wouldve wanted to help if they could, but 
peoples circumstances can change, so they may not have been able to do so indefinitely.
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each credit limit increase, was there a point 
where Aqua ought reasonably to have realised they were increasing Ms Ts indebtedness in 
a way that was unsuitable or otherwise harmful and as such, should not have provided 
further credit?
Aqua say they were receiving regular payments and there were no financial or affordability 
indicators being reported to them, and no payday loans shown on the credit report they 
checked. They say that based on this and that fact that Ms Ts overall indebtedness was low, 
she was offered two credit limit increases; applied in November 2016 and March 2017.
They also say that there was no contact from Ms T in respect of her medical conditions or 
her financial difficulties, and they have continued to receive regular payment from 2016 to 
early 2019. They say they sympathise with Ms Ts circumstances, but the account opening, 
and credit limit increases were done in line with their policy at the time. 
As Ive found that Ms T shouldnt have been approved for the credit card, it follows that the 
two subsequent credit limit increases also should be automatically upheld. I say this because 
had the initial credit not been granted, it wouldnt have been possible for Ms T to be 
applicable for the limit increases. However, I think it would be helpful for me to set out why I 
think Aqua ought to have realised with both credit limit increases that further credit was 
unsustainable for Ms T.
First credit limit increase from £600 to £1,000
This unsolicited credit limit increase was given to Ms T in November 2016. So approximately 
seven months after Ms T got approved for the credit card. In four of the seven months, prior 
to this limit increase Ms T was over her credit limit. And she was late with her minimum 
payment on two occasions, the last one being in the month prior to the credit limit increase. 
Aqua was required to monitor Ms Ts repayment record and take appropriate action where 
there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties. I think being above the credit limit 
on four different statements out of seven and being late with two minimum payments would 
most likely constitute possible repayment difficulties. So, I disagree with Aqua that there 
were no financial or affordability indicators being reported to them. And I dont think it was enough for them to rely on the fact that there were no payday loans shown on her credit 
report. 
Also, they could see that Ms Ts £1,400 total unsecured credit balance had now increased 
by approximately £1,000 to around £2,400. It seems that she was using a lot more credit 
compared to seven months prior when they approved her for the credit card. So, I think 
considering this and her repayment history over the previous seven months was enough to 
flag to them that there were possible repayment difficulties. At least this should have flagged 
to them to do further checks before approving any credit limit increases. 
 
I cant be certain what evidence, information or what questions Aqua would have asked and 
reviewed had they picked up on the concerns Ive mentioned above. However, I have been 
provided by Aqua with a copy of Ms Ts credit card statements for the relevant months. So, I 
have reviewed these. In the absence of anything else, I think the information available from 
these statements was a reasonable indicator of the type of evidence or information Aqua 
would have likely found out had they done further checks, especially that they had access to 
these. From the credit card statements, I can see that in the first month she spent most of 
her entire credit limit on online gambling transactions. This, combined with the fact that she 
was above the credit limit on four different statements out of seven, late with two minimum 
payments, and utilising £1,000 more credit, in my opinion, would have most likely signified to 
Aqua that Ms T was experiencing financial difficulties. And the way in which Ms T was using 
her credit, most likely, would have indicated to Aqua that she was potentially having a 
gambling problem. So, taking all of the above into consideration I think Aqua should have 
known that Ms T was unlikely to be able to repay any of the credit in a sustainable way, and 
they shouldnt have offered the credit limit increase to her.
Second credit limit increase from £1,000 to £1,500
This second unsolicited credit limit increase was given to Ms T in March 2017. As such, 
Ms T had the £1,000 credit limit for only four months before she was given access to another 
£500 of credit. During this short time, I can see that she managed to keep up with her 
minimum payments. But I do see that she maximised this credit limit within approximately 
two months. I think this should have been a concern for Aqua when they were considering 
whether to give her another credit limit increase. I say this because that information, together 
with the repayment history, should have raised concerns for them. Ms T was over the credit 
limit on four occasions, and was late with two minimum payments, within 11 months of being 
approved for the credit card. And right after she was given the last limit increase, she spent it 
within a short period of time. All this taken together most likely should have raised concerns 
for Aqua that Ms T might be experiencing financial difficulties. So, they should have done 
further checks before giving her the second credit limit increase. 
Once again, I think the information in Ms Ts credit card statements would have been a 
reasonable indicator of the type of evidence or information Aqua likely would have found out 
had they done further checks. From these they would have noticed that once again most of 
her prior credit limit increase was spend on gambling transactions. They also would have 
noticed that she is getting further into debt and not repaying her credit in a sustainable way. 
So, considering all of the above, I think it was not reasonable for Aqua to give Ms T a further 
credit limit increase. 
Did Aqua act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not been presented with anything persuasive to make me think it is more likely than not 
that Aqua acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms T in some other way.  
Putting things rightMs T has had the benefit of being able to use the money Aqua lent to her. So, it is fair that 
she repays the capital. But Ms T shouldnt have been given the credit card and the two 
further credit limit increases. So Aqua should refund to Ms T any interest, fees and charges 
she has paid. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as 
Aqua to:
1. Rework the account balance to refund all interest, to reflect the fact that no 
lending or further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payments and over limit fees should also be removed; 
2. The payments Ms T made from the inception of financing onwards (including any 
since the debt was sold) should then be deducted from the reworked account 
balance. Any extra that was paid should be treated as overpayments and 
refunded to Ms T;
3. Simple 8% interest per year should be added on top of any overpayments, if 
there were any, from the date they were made to the date of settlement;
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ts credit file in relation
to this credit.
From what Ive seen it appears that Aqua sold the outstanding balance on this account to a 
third-party debt purchaser. So, they either need to buy the account back from the third party 
and make either of the following: make the necessary adjustments; or pay an amount to the 
third party in order for it to make the necessary adjustments; or pay Ms T an amount to 
ensure that it fully complies with what Ive recommended.
Also, Aqua should arrange a suitable repayment plan with Ms T, if an outstanding balance 
remains on the account after all adjustments have been made.
If Aqua considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it should 
provide Ms T with a certificate showing how much they have taken off so she can reclaim 
that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman