DRN-3711330
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money they paid for a new 
car.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B hold a joint account, but as it was mostly Mr B who dealt with this matter, for 
ease, Ive generally referred to him throughout this decision. 
Mr B was looking for a car to purchase. On 4 March 2021, he paid £20,000 to a business 
that Ill call F. F didnt supply the car as agreed and Mr B asked for his money back. A little 
over a month later F provided a partial refund of £6,000, but it didnt return the rest of his 
money. Mr B subsequently discovered that many other customers of F were in a similar 
position. There is a police investigation into F and Mr B says he successfully applied for a 
County Court Judgement (CCJ) against it.
Mr B referred the matter to Lloyds, but it said it was a private civil dispute between Mr B and 
F, so the case couldnt be considered under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model CRM Code, which requires its signatories (like Lloyds) to refund 
victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Mr B didnt think this was 
fair. He said that other customers of F had been refunded by their banks, so he shouldnt be 
treated differently.
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators, but they didnt uphold it. They 
thought that, at the time Mr B made his payment, F was operating as a genuine business, 
not a scam.
Mr B disagreed. In summary, he said: 
- He disagreed with the suggestion that because he received a partial refund, F was a 
genuine business. He thought that this was simply a tactic by F to appear legitimate 
and instead he suggested that F might have been operating as a Ponzi scheme.
- He had evidence that F continued to take money from customers even after hed 
made a payment to it. That suggested that F did have the money to repay him but 
chose not to.
- In response to the investigators view that he wouldnt have applied for a CCJ against 
F if they were a fraudulent company, he explained that hed done so because he 
believed that the company was genuine at the time, and, in any case, it doesnt follow 
that a CCJ could only be issued against a genuine company. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs B have lost money here. Its not in dispute that they have paid for 
goods and not received them. I also understand theyve made significant attempts to recover 
those funds without success. 
But, I need to consider whether F set out to defraud them or not. It might seem odd that Mr 
and Mrs B might be reimbursed if theyve been the victim of a crime, but not if theyve simply 
been left without goods theyve paid for. But, the starting position in law is that they are 
responsible for payments theyve made themselves and, to be eligible for reimbursement 
under the provisions of the CRM Code, they must have fallen victim to a scam. The CRM 
Code specifically excludes private civil disputes. I accept that the mere fact Mr B decided to 
pursue the matter through the civil courts, does not necessarily mean that the matter is a 
civil dispute. Instead, its necessary for me to consider the definition of an APP scam under 
the CRM Code.  
That definition is as follows: 
a transfer of fundswhere
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
The first condition is not relevant here  theres no dispute the payment went to its intended 
recipient. 
Mr and Mrs B argue that the funds were transferred for a fraudulent purpose. Fraudulent isnt 
defined in the CRM Code, but to give it its ordinary meaning  it means something done or 
obtained through (usually) criminal deception. 
As civil disputes are excluded under the CRM Code, it follows that the test here is whether 
Mr and Mrs B were criminally deceived into making the payment. To put it another way: did F 
take Mr and Mrs Bs payment knowing that they were not going to supply the vehicle?
Its apparent that F certainly was a genuine business. It was incorporated in 2015 and, 
judging by reviews and its company records, it was successfully trading for some time. So, 
the question for me to consider is: if and when did that change? 
Im also aware that, on occasion, failing businesses have been known to take desperate 
steps to try and survive  such as using customers money in ways other than promised or 
intended. Sometimes the steps a business takes in such circumstances, which may have 
started as simply emergency measures to try and save a business, can develop into 
behaviour which is fraudulent. Its reasonable to think that such behaviour develops over 
time and, therefore, evidence that a previously genuine business may have behaved 
fraudulently at a certain, often very late, point in its existence, does not necessarily (and is 
unlikely to) demonstrate that it has always operated in such a way. With that in mind, I have 
to consider how F was operating at the point Mr B made the payment (not, at the later point, 
when F decided to refund Mr B in part).
Ive seen Fs bank account statements up to 1 March 2021 (just a few days before Mr B 
made his payment). Those statements show normal business expenditure  the payment of 
wages and other business expenses around that time. Ive seen no evidence that F was, at 
that time, a Ponzi scheme  simply using new customers money in order to repay previous 
customers (though I accept the statements only give a limited picture of the operations of F). Instead, the statements suggest that at that time, for the most part, F was involved in the 
business it claimed to be carrying out.
Mr B has said that other customers of F have got their money back. He is of the view that 
any decision by our service which decides he is not entitled to the same is necessarily 
inconsistent. I cant comment on other decisions our service has issued, nor the decisions of 
certain banks to refund customers. But, to be clear, Ive considered whether there is enough 
evidence to say that F took Mr Bs money dishonestly at the time he made the payment.
Ultimately, I have to base my decision on the evidence I have. While I havent seen Fs bank 
account statements right up to 4 March 2021, the activity which took place just a few days 
before does not indicate the business was operating as a scam at that time and I think thats 
unlikely to have changed in the three days before Mr B made his payment. 
Im afraid that the fact that F neither provided a vehicle nor returned his money in full, does 
not persuade me that it was operating fraudulently.
So, I dont think this matter is covered by the provisions of the CRM Code. And, as I dont 
think Mr B was the victim of a scam, I dont think Lloyds had any obligation to prevent his 
loss or recover his money. But, even if it had found the payment to be suspicious and 
warned him about scams involving the purchase of goods, it doesnt seem at all likely that Mr 
B would have been deterred from going ahead with it given that, at the time, there was no 
reason to think that F was acting fraudulently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman