DRN-2028549
 
The complaint
 Mr E complains about charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied at the end of his Hire Purchase Agreement. He would like these refunded.
What happened
Mr E says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with MBFS in April 2015. He says he 
wasnt happy at the excess mileage charge of £524.76 or the charge of £1876.62 for 
damages. He feels the charges are too high. And he didnt have the chance to make any 
repairs himself.
In addition, he says no one came to collect the car despite three pre-arranged visits. He says 
eventually he had to return the car himself. As a result he says he lost three half days off 
work.
MBFS said it had no record of Mr E arranging a specific inspection or collection date. It 
offered to reduce the damage charges by 25% leaving an outstanding bill of £1932.23 in 
order to resolve Mr Es complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  She felt there had been a misunderstanding 
over collecting Mr Es car but didnt feel that MBFS had done anything wrong. She compared 
the damage charges to British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Guidelines (BVRLA) and found 
the charges to be fair. And the excess mileage had been charged as per the contract Mr E 
signed. She noted that MBFS had offered to reduce the damage charges by 25% as a 
gesture of goodwill which she felt was fair.
MBFS accepted this view but Mr E didnt. He said on two occasions no one turned up to 
view or to collect the car. Then as no further collection times were available MBFS asked 
him to return the car himself which he did. He said MBFS should have records of his phone 
calls to confirm this.
Our investigator considered Mr Es points but didnt change her view. She listened to phone 
calls between Mr E and MBFS . In the first call she accepted MBFS said its collection agent 
would contact Mr E about the return of his car. So she could understand why Mr E didnt feel 
he needed to take any more action. But in the second call when Mr E raised a complaint, 
she noted the 25% reduction on the damage charges was to  reflect the issues Mr E 
expressed not a general gesture of goodwill as she had first understood. 
She felt the 25% reduction on the damage charges was a fair resolution for the issues Mr E 
had had.
Mr E didnt accept this further view. He felt the work needed on the car could have been 
done for 75% less than MBFS claimed. And he reiterated he was unhappy at the missed 
appointments, lack of apology and the fact he had to catch a bus back after returning his car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E feels strongly about this, so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as Ive reached 
the same conclusion as our investigator.
I think there are several issues here for me to consider. The charges for excess mileage and 
damage, the inconvenience of the collection/inspection process and the offer by MBFS to 
reduce the damage charges by 25%.
Although on his complaint form Mr E raised the issues of excess mileage, he doesnt seem 
to have disputed this after our investigator gave her view stating the excess miles had been 
correctly charged according to the Hire Purchase Contract Mr E signed. As I havent seen 
anything to indicate there has been any mistake in this charge, I dont think I need to 
consider that any further here.
In terms of the charges for damage I can see from the Hire Purchase Agreement Mr E 
signed included a Vehicle Returns standard detailing the state the car would be expected to 
be returned in and an indicative price repair list.
I think as Mr E knew when his contract was ending and from the above information would 
have been aware of the standard, he was expected to keep the car in .And the likely costs of 
any repairs he could have made arrangements to have the car inspected and any necessary 
work carried out prior to returning it. 
Mr E hasnt given us any reasons as to why he couldnt arrange an inspection and any 
necessary repairs  himself if he had wanted to do so. So, in allowing the car to be returned to 
MBFS he must have been aware he would  be charged the rate MBFS set for any damage.
Our investigator checked the charges for damage against BVRLA Guidelines which is 
typically the standard used within the car industry. She found the damage shown in the 
inspection photos was chargeable .And I have seen nothing to disagree with that view. So, I 
dont think MBFS did anything wrong in making the damage charges that it did.
There is obviously some confusion over the collection and inspection process. Having 
listened to the phone call of February 2019 when Mr E said he would be returning the car is 
clear that MBFS said its collection agent would call Mr E. It then seems from the information 
MBFS has given us that the collection agent had no record of a collection or inspection for 
Mr E.
I think from this phone call Mr E was entitled to think that someone was going to contact him 
but didnt. I am then not entirely clear of what happened next. Mr E says there were two 
appointments to collect the car that didnt take place. And as the next collection date was 
some time away that MBFS asked him to return the car. MBFS says Mr E chose to return 
the car himself.
Although I am not entirely clear as to the exact details as to what happened with the 
attempts to collect the car its clear that Mr E was put to some inconvenience. He was led to 
believe he would be contacted but wasnt . And then eventually returned the car himself 
having to make his own arrangements to then get home.
I do think its appropriate to pay some compensation to Mr E for the inconvenience.
As I understand it Mr E has not yet paid his outstanding bill .  MBFS has said it will still 
honour the 25% reduction in damage charges. It has clarified it initially offered this to reflect 
the inconvenience to Mr E. This reduction reduces Mr Es outstanding bill by £469.15 from £2401.37 to £1932.22. I think this is more than reasonable as compensation for any 
inconvenience to Mr E.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited should reduce the damage charges applied on the return of 
Mr Es car by 25%
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman