DRN-3412571
The complaint
Mr T complains through his representative, a claims management company (CMC), that he 
received unsuitable investment advice from St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc.
What happened
Mr T received investment advice from SJP in August 2006. Hed recently come into a sum of 
money and was looking for advice on how to produce an income in the future, with the 
possibility of some growth.
SJP assessed him as having a medium attitude to risk (ATR) and advised him to invest 
£500,000 into an investment bond and £7,000 into an ISA. Mr T accepted their 
recommendation and the investments were put in place. 
The CMC complained to SJP in 2020 about the advice Mr T had received. They said, in 
summary:
Mr T had been advised to invest at the wrong time. The sum of money hed come 
into represented a significant change to his lifestyle. Hed met with SJP shortly after 
receiving the money and he wasnt in the right frame of mind to be making important 
investment decisions at that stage. 
He was advised to invest too much money. The recommendation to invest £500,000 
represented too high a proportion of his overall funds.
He was advised to take too much risk with his money. He was aware that he could 
lose money, but the funds recommended were too high risk for a first time investor.
SJP investigated the complaint but thought that the advice was suitable for Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time. The CMC didnt agree and asked us to look into the matter. The 
complaint was considered by one of our investigators who thought it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
While Mr T had a large amount of funds in his bank account, he was an 
inexperienced investor and had never invested before. 
He wasnt satisfied that Mr T had a medium ATR and that the recommended funds 
would have been suitable for him, or that he would have understood or accepted the 
level of risk they possessed. The funds were invested in 85% equities with around 
51% in overseas equities and were subject to significant volatility. 
He thought Mr T should have been recommended funds which had a lower risk 
profile than the ones recommended. 
SJP didnt agree, they pointed to the outcome of Mr Ts partners complaint where an 
Ombudsman had determined that the recommendation was suitable. They understood that 
each case was considered on its own merits, but having reviewed the sales documentation 
from 2006, it was clear that Mr T and his partners personal and financial circumstances 
were largely the same. Therefore, it would seem difficult to comprehend a different outcome 
on Mr Ts complaint where the advice was exactly the same.
They also didnt accept that Mr Ts emergency fund of £100,000 was insufficient as it was 
significantly more than most people had available. He was a new investor but that didnt 
mean he couldnt take a medium level of risk. This was necessary in order to meet his 
objective of keeping pace with inflation and providing the level of income required and 
wouldnt have been achieved with a lower level of risk. Also, when Mr Ts high level of cash 
was considered, his overall position wasnt medium risk.
The investigator didnt change his mind, so the complaint was passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Id firstly like to say that I appreciate 
the points SJP have made about the similarities between Mr Ts complaint and that of his 
partners. However, I would say that while their circumstances are similar, they are not 
exactly the same. I think there is a key distinction between Mr Ts circumstances and his 
partners - she had twice the capital reserve he did and so had a greater capacity for loss. 
Therefore, I think its appropriate that I consider Mr Ts complaint in its own right and on its 
own merits, in all the circumstances of this particular case, as Im required to do. 
With this is mind, Ive thought about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of the 
recommendation. He was aged 53, had around £620,000 on deposit and owned his own 
property worth £90,000 with no outstanding mortgage. He had no outstanding debts or 
liabilities and was retired, but it was noted that he may return to work. He was receiving 
around £2,200 net monthly income which appears to be interest from his deposits. His 
monthly expenditure wasnt recorded but he was looking to invest to produce an income of 
around £25,000 per annum, with the possibility of some growth. 
He was assessed as having a medium attitude to investment risk and was advised to invest 
in medium risk, mixed asset managed funds. He invested £500,000 in a St. Jamess Place 
Investment Bond and £7,000 in a St. Jamess Place ISA. The Investment Bond was invested 
equally in the THSP Managed Fund and the GAM Managed Fund. 30% of the ISA was 
invested in the UK & General Progressive Fund and 70% in the Recovery Fund. 
The GAM Managed Fund consisted of around 36% UK equity, 19% European equity, 24% 
other overseas equity and 21% cash/fixed interest. The THSP Managed Fund consisted of 
around 23% UK equity, 31% European equity, 36% other overseas equity and 10% 
cash/fixed interest. 
I havent been provided with fund fact sheets from the time for the ISA investments which 
isnt ideal, but I havent seen anything to suggest the makeup of the fund has changed 
significantly since 2006. The recent fund fact sheets show that the UK & General Fund had a 
risk rating of 5 out of 7 as it predominantly invests in company shares. 
I also havent been able to find much information about the Recovery fund, but I dont think 
its unreasonable to assume that it would have been at least a medium risk fund given how 
SJP assessed Mr Ts ATR and the risk ratings of the other funds that were recommended.  Taking Mr Ts circumstances into consideration, Im not persuaded that the recommendation 
to invest into funds with such a high equity content was suitable. He needed an income, but 
he also was unable to replace any large losses on the significant sum hed invested. The 
high equity content of the recommended funds meant that their values could fluctuate 
significantly. I dont think that a modest holding in these funds was unreasonable but the 
advice to invest the majority of Mr Ts capital into them doesnt strike me as being suitable. 
There is no record of Mr T having any pension provision and he wasnt due to receive the 
state pension for another 12 years. So, I think that there needed to be some focus on capital 
preservation. Given Mr Ts lack of investment experience, it was down to the adviser to 
ensure that he understood the implications of being classified as having a medium ATR and 
exposing his capital to this level of risk and I cant see that this was done. 
Ive seen that he discussed the disadvantages of leaving too much cash on deposit, but 
nothing about the risks of the recommended funds. So, I dont think he was sufficiently 
aware of the potential significant risks of exposing 80% of his capital to a medium level of 
risk, compared to a holding a lower risk portfolio with lower potential returns.
It's important to note that while Mr T had an emergency fund of £100,000, he needed his 
capital to continue providing income for the rest of his life. Therefore, any large falls in the 
level of his capital would have a fairly serious impact on his lifestyle. On balance, I consider 
that the recommendation was too risky for Mr Ts circumstances. I think that putting him in a 
position where 80% of his holdings were dependent on risk-based assets was inappropriate. 
I appreciate that he needed to take some risk in order to achieve the income he required, but 
I dont think he was advised of the potential for a less risky portfolio to meet his needs. For 
example, at the time there were fixed rate bonds paying around 5% interest which could 
have been used along with the recommended funds to create a more diversified portfolio 
with less risk to his capital. 
Having taken everything into consideration, I dont think that Mr T was in an informed 
position and I think that on balance, if he had been, then he would have taken a lower risk 
option. So, I agree with the investigators proposed method of redress and think that it would 
be fair to compare the performance of Mr Ts portfolio to a benchmark which reflects a lower 
risk approach.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
T as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr T would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr T's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must SJP do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, SJP must:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
SJP should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Investment 
BondNo longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
ISA No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, SJP should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SJP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if SJP totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr T's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr T into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
T would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr T could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mr T 
in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc pays Mr 
T the balance plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind St. 
James's Place Wealth Management Plc. It is unlikely that Mr T can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting independent 
legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc should pay Mr T the amount produced by that calculation  up to a 
maximum of £160,000 plus any interest set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman