DRN-2065598
The complaint
Mr J complains about Santander UK Plcs decision to review, block and subsequently close 
his account. He says this has caused him emotional distress.
What happened
Mr J held an account with Santander. In July 2019 Mr J received a large international credit 
into his account. Following the credit, Mr J then transferred a large payment out to a third 
party. In August 2019, Mr J received another large international transfer. Santander had 
concerns about the account activity and blocked Mr Js account while they carried out a 
review.
As part of the review, Santander asked Mr J what they payments were for  however they 
werent satisfied with Mr Js explanations. Mr J said they were part of an investment but 
couldnt give specific details on where the money originated from, or where it needed to be 
transferred to. Santander told Mr J they had concerns that he had fallen victim to a scam.
The block on Mr Js account remained in place from August 2019 until October 2019. In 
October 2019, Santander made the decision to close Mr Js account due to the risk involved 
and gave him 30 days notice. Mr J has confirmed hes been able to open another account 
with a different bank. Santander also confiscated the remaining money linked to the 
international transfer.
Mr J complained to Santander  he says this has caused him a lot of financial trouble and he 
doesnt think hes done anything wrong. He also wants Santander to return the money to the 
person who sent it to his account. Santanders decision remained and so Mr J brought his 
complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. She thought Santander had acted 
appropriately in the circumstances and their decision was made to protect Mr J from further 
scams. She also thought it was reasonable Santander were holding on to the remaining 
funds as they hadnt received the correct indemnity from the international bank.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator. I know this will come 
as a great disappointment to Mr J so Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ive considered Santanders actions when reviewing Mr Js account. Santander, like all UK 
banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. 
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr J to realise he couldnt use his account. 
And I appreciate this whole situation has put him in a financially challenging position. But a 
bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account are readily available.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing relationship. That sometimes means they need to review and sometimes block 
customers accounts. Santander have said that Mr Js accounts were reviewed and blocked to 
meet these legal requirements. Having looked at all the available information and circumstances 
of this complaint, Im satisfied that Santander was complying with their legal and regulatory 
obligations when they reviewed and blocked the account. So, I cant say they have done 
anything wrong. 
Santander have explained they reviewed things because of a security trigger following the 
receipt of two large international payments into Mr Js account. I understand Mr J is upset 
that he feels Santander are treating him like hes done something wrong. Ive listened to the 
relevant phone calls surrounding this complaint and Im satisfied Santander has been clear 
with Mr J. Theyve explained that they think he has fallen victim to a scam  and they have 
concerns that the money he received into his account, and transferred out, are linked to 
fraudulent funds.
Mr Js account was blocked to allow Santander to carry out a full review. Ive thought about 
how long the review took  and it was around two months. Ive considered Santanders 
actions during this time and Ive seen evidence that they were proactive in contacting the 
international bank in trying to obtain further information. They also asked Mr J questions 
during this time and was in touch with external agencies for advice on their actions. Based 
on this, Im satisfied Santander didnt cause any undue delays. Im also pleased to hear they 
allowed Mr J to access his salary and benefits during the time the account was blocked.
Following their review, Santander decided to close Mr Js account. Im pleased to see they 
gave Mr J 30 days notice as this is in line with their terms and conditions. I recognise Mr J is 
upset about this  he feels they are treating him badly. But that doesnt mean Santander 
have acted unfairly. Theyre entitled to close the account, and theyve done so with 
appropriate notice. Im also pleased to hear Mr J has been able to open another account 
with a different bank.
Santander have held the money linked to the International payment which Mr J isnt happy 
about  he wants the money returned to the person who sent it to him. But that isnt for Mr J 
to decide. Ive reviewed the full circumstances and Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive 
seen that Santander have taken appropriate action. So, I wont be asking them to do 
anything differently.
I appreciate Mr J finds himself in a difficult situation now  he owes money to Santander for 
his overdraft, and Im aware of debt he has with other companies. Ive no doubt this is a 
worrying time for him and its unfortunate hes found himself involved in something which has 
resulted in his account being closed. But I cant fairly say Santander have acted unfairly.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr J feels about whats happened and Im sorry about the 
difficult financial decision he now finds himself in. So, I realise hell be disappointed by my 
decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Santander have acted 
unreasonably when they reviewed and closed his account. So, Im not going to ask them to 
do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman