DRN-2864580
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are joint policyholders on a home insurance policy provided by QIC Europe 
Ltd. Theyve complained because QIC has voided their policy  treated it as though it hasnt 
existed from the point it renewed in 2019. As a result their claim for a damaged television 
has been declined but the issue for Mr and Mrs M is the effect of the voidance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M arranged cover through an intermediary in 2013. That policy was not provided 
by QIC. When it was time to renew in 2015 Mr M spoke to the intermediary, answering 
various questions put to him and, based on the answers Mr M gave, a new policy was 
arranged. But, contrary to advice later received by the intermediary, this policy wasnt 
underwritten by QIC either. It was at renewal in 2017 when QIC began underwriting the 
policy. 
Following renewal in 2019 Mr and Mrs M made a claim for a damaged television. During the 
claim enquiries the intermediary, handling the claim for QIC, became aware that Mrs M had 
county court judgements (CCJs) against her. The intermediary noted that beginning in 2015, 
and at every renewal since, Mr M as the lead policyholder, had been asked to confirm that 
no-one in the house had received any CCJs in the last five years, and hed said no  even 
though Mrs M had, in 2015 and 2016.
  
The intermediary said if Mr M had given the correct information, the policy in 2015 wouldnt 
have been offered. It said though that it would only void back to the date of the 2019 renewal 
because the contracts for the previous policy years had been concluded. It said it would 
refund that years premium. 
 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this. They said the intermediary  which had acted for QIC 
when arranging the policy in 2015  had known about CCJs in 2015, because CCJs had 
been declared on the previous policy. So it made no sense, they said that a policy on the 
basis of no CCJs existing could have been arranged/accepted. Mr M said it wouldnt have 
benefitted hm to have answered the question in 2015 incorrectly, as he had answered it 
correctly before. 
Our investigator felt that QIC had acted fairly in voiding the policy as he was satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs M had likely not taken reasonable care to give it the correct information. But he 
thought that QIC had applied the voidance unfairly because it should have re-set the whole 
relationship  withdrawing the whole policy from the outset, which the intermediary had told 
us was 2015, and reimbursing all of the premiums paid by Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree that the voidance had been fair. Mr M reiterated his view that 
QIC, via its intermediary had known there had been CCJs in 2015 because CCJs had been 
disclosed to the intermediary in 2013. Mr M also argued that in transferring the question to a 
statement an inconsistency had arisen which had caused QIC to record the information he 
had given it in 2015 in a misleading way. He also argued that QICs renewals were pitched in 
such a way as to cause one to think that if nothing had changed, nothing needed to be done 
 and Mr M felt that nothing had changed because there had been CCJs in 2013, there were 
still CCJs in 2015 and that was still the case at subsequent renewals. He said QIC had not 
provided cover in 2015  that had been a different insurer in respect of home emergency 
and legal expenses cover. 
QIC noted the investigators findings  but said it couldnt re-set the cover to 2015, because 
it had only been the underwriter since 2017. When asked why its final response said 
differently, QIC didnt give any explanation.
When asked to do so, both QIC and Mr and Mrs M provided policy documents from 2016. 
These confirmed that QIC was not the underwriter of the policy at that time.
When I reviewed the complaint, I noted the corrected policy liability position and felt I needed 
to issue a provisional decision. My findings from that decision were:
The home emergency and legal expense cover isnt relevant. Its not unusual for these 
types of cover to be provided by a different insurer, even where they are provided as part of 
an overall home insurance policy. But it is now clear that QIC did not underwrite the home 
cover all the way back to 2015. Unfortunately, due to the evidence previously provided to 
this service, to date weve been unable to review the complaint in light of the correct 
underwriting position. So Im issuing a provisional decision to let the parties know my views 
on this complaint in light of the fact QIC has only been the underwriter since 2017.  
   
I understand that QICs voidance is a huge cause for concern for Mr and Mrs M. I dont 
doubt that it is having an effect on them obtaining alternate cover. However, even given the 
new information, I do think QIC acted fairly and reasonably on this occasion when seeking to 
void the policy. But the way in which it sought to do that  based on activity which had 
occurred when it wasnt underwriting the policy and in a way which only returned a small part 
of the overall premium paid by Mr and Mrs M to QIC  was not fair.
It is a policyholders responsibility to take reasonable care not to mislead an insurer when an 
insurance policy is being arranged or renewed. An insurer will let a policyholder know what 
information is key to it, either by asking questions or by asking the prospective policyholder 
to agree to certain statements. As long as the wording is clear and clearly expresses what it 
is the insurer wants to know, then if the wrong information is given and the insurer shows it 
would have done something different based on correct information, that will be seen as a 
qualifying misrepresentation. If a qualifying misrepresentation occurs, and the prospective 
policyholder failed to take reasonable care to avoid making that misrepresentation, then the 
insurer will be able to act as it would have done if the misrepresentation had not been made.
 
At renewal in 2017 Mr M, as the lead policyholder, was asked to make sure all the 
information QIC had recorded and based its policy cover on, was correct. One of those 
pieces of information was that Mr M had agreed that no-one in the household had CCJs in 
the last five years. Its known that Mrs M had CCJs recorded against her in 2015 and 2016. 
So the information held by QIC was incorrect and Mr M should have acted to correct this. 
That would have equated to taking reasonable care. QIC has shown that if it had been told 
of the CCJs it wouldnt have provided cover at renewal. Because Mr M did not take 
reasonable care, Mr and Mrs Ms policy was renewed on the basis of a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
QIC has shown that if Mr M had told it of the CCJs, it wouldnt have offered cover. Therefore, 
the policy should be re-set to that point and all of the premiums refunded. It matters not that 
contracts for later years had begun and ended before the misrepresentation was discovered 
 the fact of the misrepresentation means everything gets re-set to the point that was 
provided to QIC. That means QIC acted unfairly by not reimbursing all of the premiums.
 I know Mr and Mrs M believe that QIC, via its intermediary, must have known there were 
relevant CCJs in 2015 (when the intermediary initially said QIC had taken over the cover), 
because CCJs were declared in 2013. But the question asked in 2013 was the same as the 
statement agreed to in 2015 and 2017  all referred to CCJs obtained in the preceding five 
years. And the answer given in 2013 couldnt possibly have encompassed the CCJs 
obtained in 2015 and 2016, because they didnt exist yet. I dont think its reasonable to say 
that because CCJs had been declared in 2013, QIC should have known that relevant CCJs 
existed in later years, not when the statement Mr M had to agree to referred to a limited time 
period. And it isnt up to an insurer to check and cross reference the information they are 
given  they are entitled to expect the prospective policyholder to have taken reasonable 
care to ensure that only correct information is provided. 
I know Mr M has concerns about the fact that the question he was asked over the phone in 
2015 was transferred in the policy documents into a statement and agreement from him. 
I also know that he feels the policy paperwork wasnt clear enough to let him know that QIC 
felt it had incorrect information which he needed to act on to correct. Whilst Ive considered 
and understand Mr Ms concerns in these respects, Im satisfied both that his policy 
paperwork asked him to check the information held was correct and that the statement, 
against which Mr Ms agreement was recorded, regarding CCJs, was clear. Despite this 
Mr M did not check the information and/or didnt correct the erroneous information recorded.
 
Im satisfied that, on this occasion, QICs act of voiding the policy was fair and reasonable, 
even though its original basis for that voidance and the period over which it applied that, 
which resulted in only a limited reimbursement of the policy premium being paid, was unfair. 
Im going to require QIC to reimburse Mr and Mr Ms premium back to 2017, which is the 
point at which QIC became the underwriter for the policy.
QIC will have to reimburse all of the premiums Mr and Mrs M paid to it in 2017 and 2018  
the premium charged at renewal in 2019 already having been refunded. To this sum it will 
have to add interest* from the date the 2019 premium was refunded until settlement is 
made.
QIC said it accepted my findings and had paid the award. Mr M, on behalf of himself and 
Mrs M, said he felt they had been unfairly penalised. He said it wasnt fair that incorrect 
information had originally been given to him and this service about which insurer underwrote 
their cover in 2015. He didnt think this lack of competence had been adequately answered. 
Mr M said they are not the only party to blame for the situation, so they shouldnt be the only 
ones penalised
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I completely understand Mr Ms frustration regarding the content of the final response QIC 
allowed to be issued on its behalf. The key policy information contained within it was wrong 
and misleading. And QIC didnt chose to correct this situation until the point where this 
service said a refund, based on this data, should be paid to Mr and Mrs M. QICs correction 
at this time caused me to issue my provisional decision which said QIC should reimburse 
three years of premium in total, instead of five. It would have been helpful for the course of 
this complaint if QIC had provided the correct information to Mr M and us at the outset. 
However, I cant make awards against an insurer based on their failures in respect of 
handling complaints. Thats because this service operates under certain rules and they say I can only make awards in respect of regulated activities. And complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity.
Furthermore, the way QIC has handled this complaint, and even the situation which led to 
QIC only becoming the underwriter for this policy in 2017, doesnt change the fact that Mr M 
didnt take reasonable care when renewing the policy in 2017. It was up to him, as he was 
representing Mrs M and himself, to take reasonable care when completing that renewal, and 
I explained provisionally why I felt he had not. Unfortunately for Mr M, his failure entitled QIC 
to avoid the policy  the natural result of which is that it must repay Mr and Mrs M all the 
premiums it had taken for cover. QIC had only re-paid part of the premiums before our 
involvement, my provisional decision said it had to pay more. Mr and Mrs M arent being 
penalised, rather they are receiving everything they are entitled to in the circumstances. 
Whilst I note QICs acceptance of my findings and confirmation it has paid the required sum 
to Mr and Mrs M, my award must still be recorded in this final decision. But QIC wont have 
to reimburse again any sum already paid.
Putting things right
I require QIC to reimburse all of the premiums Mr and Mrs M paid to it in 2017 and 2018  
the premium charged at renewal in 2019 already having been refunded. To this sum it will 
have to add interest* from the date the 2019 premium was refunded until settlement is made. 
If any part of this award has already been paid by QIC, it wont have to pay it again.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs M, it should tell them how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require QIC Europe Ltd to provide the redress set out in 
putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman