DRN-2649395
The complaint
Mr D has complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ds complaint about loans 2 and 3. Mr Lender disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was upholding Mr Ds 
complaint about loan two. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional 
findings follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr D took three payday loans from Mr Lender between May and September 2014. A
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Mr Lender, can be
found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountRepayment 
Amount
1 07/05/2014 20/05/2014 1 £300.00 £405.00
2 29/05/2014 20/06/2014 1 £500.00 £650.00
3 14/09/2014 17/09/2014 1 £200.00 £230.00
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ds complaint. He thought the checks Mr Lender
completed for Mr Ds first loan were proportionate and the loan appeared affordable. But the
adjudicator thought the repayment for loans 2 and 3 represented a significant proportion of
Mr Ds income and so these loans shouldnt have been granted. Thats because there was a
significant risk that Mr D wouldnt have been able to meet his existing commitments without
having to borrow again.
It appears that Mr D agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Mr Lender disagreed and
provided the following points to consider:
Mr D had a disposable income of £910.00, after making his regular monthly
outgoings he was still left with a significant amount to afford the repayment.
Loan 3 was taken 87 days later after loan 2 was repaid. It was for a significantly less
amount and Mr Ds salary had also increased by £400 per month
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,
while meeting other reasonable commitments, without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. And having done so Im intending
to partly uphold the complaint.
Loan 1
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Mr Lender to have provided Mr Ds first loan. 
Both Mr D and Mr Lender appear to have accepted our adjudicators findings about this loan.
And taking into account what Mr Lender knew about Mr D at the time of his loan application,
and the fact that this was Mr Ds first loan with the lender, I dont think Mr Lender was wrongto have approved it.
Loan 2
When Mr D applied for his second loan, I think Mr Lender had information to suggest the
loan was likely to be detrimental to his financial situation.
Mr D applied for his second loan nine days after repaying loan 1. This was his second loan
within the same calendar month. Mr Lender completed the same level of checks as it did for
Mr Ds first loan by asking him to declare his monthly income and expenditure and it also
completed a credit check.
Mr D declared that his circumstances hadnt significantly changed since his first loan. Mr
Lender recorded his monthly income as £1,400 and his expenditure was £490. This left him
with a disposable income of £910. The repayment for loan 2 was £650, which was equal to
nearly half of Mr Ds monthly income. In my view, this meant that Mr D had now reached the
threshold to say that he was committed to paying Mr Lender a significant portion of his
disposable income to it.
In response to the adjudication, Mr Lender made some comments about the disposable
income Mr D had, and that he had enough disposable income to meet this repayment. To be
clear, there is going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for a firm to
lend, but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual complaint 
including what the lender knew and what it reasonably ought to have known. And as Ive
said above that threshold, has in my view been met in this case.
Although, I think Mr Lender was wrong to have provided the loan, the information that Mr
Lender did take from Mr D, at first glance Mr Ds declared expenditure seemed to suggest he
would have still had a disposable income of £260 once the loan repayment was made. I can
see he only declared expenses for rent and to a telecommunications provider. Mr Lender
ought to have questioned whether some expenditure was missing  for example, how was
Mr D going to eat, pay household bills, or travel to work?
Whilst the credit check results Mr Lender has provided seem to suggest no adverse credit
file information, that doesnt mean the loan repayments were sustainable for Mr D.
I think it ought to have been obvious to Mr Lender that Mr Ds expenditure was higher than
declared, and consequently he did not, in fact, have the disposable income quoted by Mr
Lender. So, I think there was a significant risk the amount borrowed for loan 2 would prove
to be unsustainable.
Because of these factors, I dont think Mr Lender were right to approve Mr Ds second loan.
Loan 3
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ds last loan as he didnt think loan 2 was sustainable and this
was likely to have affected Mr Ds ability to repay loan 3. But I think there was enough
information to suggest Mr Ds circumstances had significantly changed by this point.
Mr D applied for loan 3 around three and a half months after he repaid his previous loan.
Mr D declared his monthly income had increased to £1,800. And whilst his monthly
expenditure increased due to his extra declared expenses for food/travel and other regular
outgoings, he now had a larger disposable income of which to meet a smaller one-off
repayment of £230.In the individual circumstances of Mr Ds complaint, I think the fact that he didnt need to
borrow so soon as he had after repaying loan 2, coupled with the change in his disposable
income, meant that the repayment for loan 3 appeared sustainable. Mr Lender told us that it
had asked Mr D about his short-term borrowing elsewhere. And it appears that Mr D had told
it that he was not borrowing from other lenders at the time. This is further demonstrated in
the information Mr D has provided to us about his circumstances at the time he took out this
lending.
So, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ds final loan.
I said Id consider anything else Mr D and Mr Lender wanted to give me  so long as I 
received it by 1 March 2021. As this deadline has now passed, I will now issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr Lender accepted the provisional decision and didnt raise any further points it wanted me 
to consider. Mr D doesnt appear to have responded to my provisional decision. 
Given, Ive not received any new comments, I see no reason to depart from my findings that 
I reached in my provisional decision and I still think Mr Lender was wrong to have provided 
Mr D with his second loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Mr D with loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Refund all interest, fees and charges on loan 2
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D from the
date Mr D originally made his payment, to the date the complaint is settled.Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in
relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ds 
complaint in part.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman