DRN-3587366
The complaint
Miss S representative complains about the due diligence London & Colonial Services 
Limited (L&C) undertook before accepting Miss S application. 
Miss S representative complains that L&C didnt have adequate procedures, systems and 
controls in place. And that this resulted in L&C accepting Miss S Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) application when it shouldnt have done, and allowing her to invest in The 
Resort Group's (TRGs) Llana Beach Hotel Resort (Llana Beach). Further, that Miss S has 
suffered loss as a result of this. 
What happened
I've outlined the key parties involved in Miss S' complaint below.
Involved parties
L&C
L&Cs a regulated pension provider and administrator. Its authorised to arrange deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a personal 
pension scheme and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
C.I.B (Life & Pensions) Limited (CIB)
At the time of the events in this complaint, CIB was authorised by the regulator  the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) - to advise on regulated products and services including giving investment advice 
and arranging deals in investments such as pensions. In May 2015, CIB went into 
liquidation, and has since been dissolved.
Real SIPP LLP (RealSIPP)
RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB from April 2010 to June 2015. 
The Resort  Group  (TRG)
TRG was founded in 2007. TRG owns a series of luxury resorts in Cape Verde. TRG sold 
luxury hotel rooms to UK consumers, either as whole entities or as fractional share 
ownership in a company. TRG wasnt regulated by the financial services regulator. This case 
involves investments in TRGs Llana Beach holdings.
What happened?
Ive briefly summarised whats happened below.
After shed attended a will conference, TRG contacted Miss S to invite her to a pension 
presentation in London. Miss S says that, following the presentation, TRG facilitated 
everything and explained that shed be referred to CIB, RealSIPP and L&C as part of a 
transfer package.
Miss S had a Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS) with her former employer. 
On 14 October 2011, the administrator of Miss S DBS wrote to TRG to provide transfer 
information TRG had requested. It was explained that Miss S would have to sign an 
enclosed waiver form to proceed with a transfer. And, on 10 November 2011, Miss S signed 
the deferred pension waiver form for her DBS. This confirmed, amongst other things, that 
shed had the opportunity to take independent financial advice on the transfer. 
On 10 November 2011, Miss S also completed a RealSIPP branded application form to open 
a SIPP with L&C and transfer in her DBS. This form was sent to L&C by RealSIPP. The 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) details are on page 3 of the form. Details for both 
RealSIPP and CIB, including their FSA authorisation numbers, are noted. Mr H is the named 
contact and a RealSIPP email address is given. In the section immediately below these 
details, a box that says Advice not given at point of sale to client has been ticked. And its 
recorded that initial remuneration of £2,550, and ongoing annual remuneration of £300, 
would be paid to the IFA.
Elsewhere in the form a ticked box confirms that Miss S wants to manage the fund herself. 
And on the initial investment instruction page, its noted that a little under 342,000 euros is to 
be invested in Llana Beach. 
RealSIPP branded L&C Investment request forms were also signed by Miss S for the Llana 
Beach investments in November 2011 and January 2012. The forms explained that with 
staged payments the initial deposit and interim payments could be lost if the balance couldnt 
be paid when due. The forms said that L&C wasnt authorised to give financial or investment 
advice. But that it had obtained legal advice in its capacity as trustee, in order to assess the 
risks of ownership and to ensure the appropriate title was attained. 
Scheme borrowing forms were also signed by Miss S in January 2012. Details of sums to be 
borrowed, and the lender theyd be borrowed from, were left blank. But it was noted in the 
forms that:
This was an unusual investment structure involving property in a foreign jurisdiction, 
with a long period between the contract being entered into and completion, when the 
balance (including any scheme borrowing) would be due.
There were no standard or previously agreed terms with any potential lender.
Where scheme borrowing was needed, it was for the investor to choose a lender and 
obtain an offer. And this would then be sent to L&C to review. 
Miss S SIPP application was accepted by L&C and a little under £300,000 was transferred 
into the SIPP from Miss S' DBS on 29 November 2011. 
L&Cs New Business Checklist for Miss S application records RealSIPP as the IFA and that 
no advice had been given. Questions about investment instructions having been received 
and ensuring that transfers werent from a DBS if the IFA wasnt authorised on DBS 
transfers, were both recorded as not applicable.
Miss S called L&C in December 2011 to ask when the Llana Beach deposits could be paid 
and was told that this wouldnt happen until after her cooling off period. Miss S then wrote to 
L&C to say that she wouldnt be cancelling. She asked for the investments to proceed as 
soon as possible, as the return shed receive annually from them was greater than the 
interest being earned while monies were in cash.As I understand it, on 6 December 2011 £2,550 was paid to RealSIPP from Miss S SIPP. 
Contracts for Miss S Llana Beach investments were signed by the vendor (Llana Beach 
Hotel, S.A.) towards the end of December 2011. These explained that a total of 65% 
(consisting of a 45% down payment and an additional 20%) was paid when the contract is 
signed. Another 30% was then payable on the conclusion of the construction, with the 
vendor writing off the final 5%. Thered also be a discount each year, equivalent to 3% of the 
cost of the 45% down payment, until the earlier of 3 years or the date of delivery of the keys. 
The contracts explained that the established date for the conclusion of the construction was 
no later than 31 December 2014. And that if the purchaser didnt make any instalment 
payment thats due the vendor may (at their discretion and amongst other options), sixty 
days after the due date, terminate the contract and retain all amounts paid under its terms. 
A little over £187,000 was then invested into Llana Beach over 20 December 2011 and 21 
December 2011. Followed by a further investment of a little over £79,000 on 23 January 
2012.
L&C wrote to Miss S on 14 August 2015 and said that when the investments in Llana Beach 
were made, it understood that scheme borrowing would be made available. But that the 
developer hadnt been able to find a lender willing to lend to investors. L&C explained that if 
Miss S couldnt provide the funds required to complete the purchase, she risked losing the 
sums invested. And to avoid the risk of defaulting on the contracts, the developer had 
offered investors the opportunity to consolidate their holdings. L&C said it understood that 
TRG had explained the consolidation arrangements and that Miss S wanted to proceed with 
these. In September 2015 Miss S signed a form to proceed with the consolidation.
Additional background information
Having explained whats happened above, Ive mentioned some of the additional 
documentation weve been provided by the parties below, before then going on to 
summarise whats happened in Miss S complaint to date. 
L&Cs provided us with a third-party investment due diligence document it obtained. The 
document sets out some details about the Llana  Beach  investment, including that:
The investment appeared to be a genuine hotel operation and TRG had completed 
one previous development in Cape Verde.
The investment involved acquiring hotel rooms off plan, with annual income being 
generated through room rental. Ownership and rental income werent pooled.
TRG said that the investment wasnt an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme 
(UCIS). But as the investment was still unregulated thered be no Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protection.
Management of the hotel would be covered by an operator agreement; the hotel 
operator would be an established operator listed on the Spanish stock exchange.
First Resort Property Services Limited was promoting the investments under licence 
from TRG. 
Web searches reveal no adverse history for those involved in the arrangement.
Where used by administrators, a high risk/illiquid disclaimer could be considered.
L&Cs said that by applying to be an intermediary, RealSIPP agreed to be bound by the 
terms of The Intermediary Agreement for Non-Insured Contracts. Ive seen copies of the 
L&C intermediary applications that CIB and RealSIPP signed on 13 September 2010 to confirm this, and Ive also seen a copy of the agreement.
L&Cs also provided us with copies of print outs from the FSA Register. These record that, 
as at November 2011, RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB. And CIBs 
permissions included advising on Pension Transfers and Pension Opt Outs.
Ive also seen L&Cs SIPP Open Pension Brochure document. Amongst other things, this 
says that, the L&C Open Pension is not appropriate for everybody and it is essential that 
you obtain financial advice before entering into one. The brochure also explains that L&C 
has no responsibility for investment decisions. But that itll ensure assets are correctly 
registered and comply with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) rules and regulations.
Miss S representative sent us RealSIPPs client agreement and Keyfacts document, titled 
about our services for our Resort Group SIPP package. RealSIPPs client agreement 
describes it as an administrator and packager of pension solutions to clients of various 
alternative investment providers, and says that:
We are not, however, financial advisers as defined by the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 and we will not provide financial advice as to whether the SIPP is 
the right product for you, nor will we recommend or advise upon any investment 
strategy you should follow. You should seek advice from a suitably qualified and 
regulated firm or individual. 
Further, that:
RealSIPP LLP does not make specific investment recommendations, nor will we 
confirm your objectives and any restrictions on the types of product that you wish to 
buy. We act upon your instructions.
The Keyfacts document says that RealSIPP only offers products from a single company and 
that clients wouldnt receive advice or recommendations from RealSIPP. Its also explained 
that for clients establishing a SIPP (this included setting up the SIPP and arranging the 
transfers in) thered be an initial £2,550 fee and an annual ongoing fee of £300 for 
administration and correspondence.
During our investigation into this complaint L&C was asked whether it had clarified the 
service RealSIPP would provide to its clients and if it obtained a copy of RealSIPPs client 
agreement/Keyfacts document. L&C acknowledged receipt of our request but didnt provide 
a substantive response to it.
In response to Miss S complaint L&Cs said, amongst other things, that:
Its role is to make sure that investments are allowed within the trust rules and that 
they dont breach HMRC regulations. It isnt authorised to provide financial advice.
It establishes liabilities and responsibilities it would have as owner of an asset. 
Consumers are encouraged to seek financial advice from a regulated adviser, but 
L&C doesnt require advice to have been given.
It was for RealSIPP to advise Miss S on her DBS transfer. If RealSIPP hadn't 
considered it suitable, it wouldnt have submitted Miss S' application form to L&C.
Its relationship with RealSIPP was that it permitted RealSIPP to introduce SIPPs, and 
it paid RealSIPP the fees agreed by the client. 
The only relationship it had with TRG was liaising with it during the purchase 
process, and on ongoing matters relating to the administration of investments.
It accepts business submitted by regulated financial advisers whove an intermediary agreement with it.
Its controls included ensuring that business was submitted by a regulated financial 
adviser, whose responsibilities included advising on the suitability of the transfer, the 
SIPP and the underlying investments.
Miss S completed investment request and loan application forms. These included 
details about the Llana Beach investment, the units Miss S wished to acquire and the 
selected payment basis. The forms drew attention to the extent of L&Cs role and 
some features of the investment. Miss S signed these to confirm her understanding.
The rules of the SIPP are set out in a trust deed. They state that L&C would only, 
subject to a small number of exceptions including where it was of the opinion doing 
so would be otherwise improper or inappropriate, exercise its investment powers in 
accordance with directions given by the member.
It had checked the FSA register; this showed that CIB was regulated and authorised 
to give financial advice and that RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB.
Its entitled to rely on the presumption that advice was given by CIB on the DBS 
transfer, this is consistent with the remuneration agreement.
In February 2012, Miss S tried to purchase Global Forestry holdings with her SIPP. 
Investment Agreements were sent by Global Forestry Investments to L&C directly. 
Miss S then chased L&C about the investments and was told that their acceptance 
was suspended pending further enquiries. Miss S later decided not to invest.
L&C decided that provided clients had had pensions and investment advice made 
available, even if that available advice were not taken up or followed that it would 
allow the Llana Beach investment to be held in its SIPP.
It appointed solicitors to advise on property purchases in Cape Verde and on the 
associated contracts. A solicitors' report, a draft copy of the promissory contract, draft 
management/rental agreements and an investor pack were available to Miss S. And 
she confirmed that shed taken any advice she needed on the investment.
At the time of Miss S application, many advisers were claiming to advise on the SIPP 
but not on the underlying investments. The FSA later clarified that advisers must 
consider the merits of the investment proposition when recommending a SIPP. 
Following this L&C changed its application form, and applications where an adviser 
indicated theyd not given advice at the point of application would be declined.
Its reasonable to assume that Miss S didnt walk into RealSIPPs offices and state 
that she wanted an L&C SIPP and to invest in Llana Beach. If Miss S had done this it 
would have been an execution-only case, and L&C didnt accept execution-only 
cases.
Execution-only cases wouldnt have involved an adviser fee, as was charged here.
Its been submitted on Miss S behalf that:
She didnt receive an incentive payment.
She wasnt an experienced or sophisticated investor, or a high net worth client.
She didn't understand her pension and wanted professional advice. Shed thought 
her DBS was worth £30,000, rather than £30,000 a year. 
Shed no intention of moving her pension until TRG/CIB convinced her to transfer.
She was offered the chance to take control of her pension, receive advice and 
dramatically improve her benefits. Shed no idea of the risks involved.
TRG said what it was going to do, but didnt explain that there were any risks 
involved. If the risks had been explained, she wouldnt have proceeded with the 
transactions.
TRG said that it wasnt able to give advice, but RealSIPP/CIB advised her to move 
the DBS to L&C so as to invest in Llana Beach.
She was told that transferring and investing in Llana Beach would generate better 
returns than her DBS, and her children would get a lump sum if she died.With Llana Beach, she understood that shed own a property abroad but couldn't use 
it. She was led to believe thered be little or no risks with the investments and that 
there were guarantees. 
She understood that the investments required a final payment, TRG implied it would 
provide the lending for this. And the repayments for the borrowing would then be 
covered from the rental payments. 
She cant remember trying to purchase Global Forestry holdings in 2012, but after 
the SIPP was setup then she received marketing from lots of different companies.
RealSIPP and TRG told her to write letters and sign documents, and she trusted 
them. She was told to write to L&C to waive her cancellation rights. And application 
and investment forms were pre-populated, she just signed highlighted pages.
Miss S had the impression that RealSIPP was working with L&C, and both firms 
logos were on some of the forms. 
CIB is in default and Miss S' FSCS claim hasnt been upheld (Ive seen the letter the 
FSCS sent to Miss S explaining that it was rejecting her complaint against CIB while 
this complaint against L&Cs ongoing).
An investigator reviewed Miss S complaint and concluded it should be upheld. They said 
that L&C knew no advice was given and processed the application on that basis. And that 
L&C should have stopped the transaction as, according to its own policy, it didnt accept 
execution-only business. Alternatively, if L&C did accept execution-only business, it should 
have questioned RealSIPP's involvement due to the fees being charged and made sure 
Miss S was aware of the risks of proceeding without advice. Further, and due to the 
inconsistencies and conflicting evidence about whether advice had previously been given by 
RealSIPP/CIB, if L&C had insisted that Miss S receive regulated advice before proceeding 
its most likely the transactions complained about wouldnt then have occurred. 
L&C didn't agree with the investigator and, amongst other things, it said that:
Miss S acted without advice and it proceeded on that basis. Notwithstanding its 
previous comments, it hadnt relied on an assumption that Miss S was advised.
L&C would only have accepted applications from a firm authorised by the FSA.
Thered been a misunderstanding about its policy, and:
The policy in place at the time was to ensure that (Miss S) had advice made 
available to her, in this case through RealSIPP. However, she had chosen not 
to take up this advice. The fact that (Miss S) chose not to take up this advice 
was her own decision.
We recognise that it is unfortunate that this was not made clear earlier. 
However, L&C went through a change of ownership in October 2016 and this 
can make confirming the processes in place prior to the change of ownership 
difficult. The position has, however, now been confirmed with directors from 
the relevant period. 
It satisfied itself that Miss S had the opportunity to obtain advice in accordance with 
its policy. And Miss S signed a deferred pension waiver form with her transferring 
scheme, confirming that shed had the opportunity to take independent advice . 
L&C didnt have a policy of not accepting execution-only business. But it wouldn't 
accept DBS transfers where the client didnt have the opportunity to take advice.
L&C obtained a due diligence report from Cape Verde solicitors in January 2011 
showing good title (the January 2011 report L&C sent to us appears to relate to the 
Salinas Sea project), and a third-party report showing that Llana Beach investments 
were capable of being held in a SIPP.The inter-relation between a retainer and a firms duties, as discussed in Denning v 
Greenhalgh Financial Services Ltd [2017] EWHC 143 (QB), is relevant here. The 
retainer between Miss S and L&C stated that L&C provided no advice on the 
investment, and that Miss S was liable for any losses arising from instructions she 
gave. The duties imposed by the retainer didnt extend to L&C assessing the 
suitability of Miss S investment decisions or making enquiries about them.
The FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report is relevant to how L&C conducts its 
business and highlights some areas of good practice. But it didnt impose a duty on 
L&C to ensure that Miss S investment decisions were suitable. 
Published after Miss S application, the FSAs 2012 Thematic Review Report 
highlights the FSA's expectations of SIPP operators and L&C met its obligations.
A second investigator reviewed Miss S complaint, they also said it should be upheld. 
Amongst other things, they highlighted that the pattern of business being introduced by 
RealSIPP presented a high risk of consumer detriment. Because of this, L&C should have 
taken steps to understand RealSIPPs business model and to make sure clients were being 
offered advice. L&C should have done this prior to receiving Miss S application, and L&C 
should have concluded it was likely that the business introduced by RealSIPP might produce 
unsuitable SIPPs and that there was a high risk of consumer detriment. L&C should then 
have declined Miss S business from RealSIPP. And, had it done so, its most likely Miss S 
wouldnt then have opened a SIPP, transferred her DBS or invested in Llana Beach.
Solicitors for L&C replied to the second investigator. Amongst other things, they said that:
The wording in the investment request forms confirmed that Miss S had obtained any 
reports, legal or other advice that she required on the investments. 
This complaint has similar facts to the Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly 
Carey Pensions UK LLP) [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) case, but the investigators view 
doesnt explain why weve reached a different conclusion to that arrived at in Adams.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is attempting to use the Principles to circumvent 
the Adams decision. 
Consideration of the Principles must be via the appropriate Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) rules applying to the transaction.
L&C didnt have to ensure advice had been given. But theres some evidence advice 
was given in this case. 
Miss S was employed by Firm A, a business offering a pension review service. This 
brings into question the expertise and familiarity Miss S had with pension matters.
Miss S had decided to transfer her DBS before contacting L&C, and theres nothing 
to indicate that she wouldnt have still gone ahead if L&C had refused the business. 
Other SIPP providers were accepting such investments at the time, and its most 
likely the transactions would have been effected with another provider.
L&C requested an oral hearing. 
Following L&Cs submissions, we asked Miss S about her role at Firm A. Miss S said that 
shed never personally gained regulated status and that:
the trading history of (Firm A) shows the lack of trading history and was dissolved 
and was never regulated.
The idea I would work for a regulated company, pay for regulated advice and then 
invest my entire company pension worth over £30,000 a year into an unregulated 
scheme is completely illogical. I dont know a single regulated firm would allow this 
transaction. The undue pressure to invest came from The Resort Group, they 
arranged my financial review (FCA regulated firm went into forced closure) and the Sipp Company. London and Colonial was provided to me as an investment 
package.
 
Miss S has explained that Firm A was looking for recruitment advice on its setup and she 
provided it with initial recruitment advice on invoice on effective recruitment practices for 
Customer Service Roles and Office Administration. Again none of these roles were 
regulated, I have neither the qualification nor expertise to advice on any regulated matters.
Miss S says that as she wasnt paid fully for her work by Firm A, she terminated her 
relationship with it and Firm A was later dissolved.
A search for individuals with Miss S name on the FCA Register returns no results. And the 
filing history for Firm A (of which Miss S was a director), as detailed on the Companies 
House services website, records that Firm A wasnt incorporated until March 2012. A search 
for Firm A on the FCA register shows that Firm A wasnt a regulated firm in its own right, but 
it was an introducer appointed representative of another firm for a little over a year from 
February 2013. Limits on the scope of appointment of introducer appointed representatives 
can be found at SUP 12.2.8 G in the FCA Handbook, and Ive not repeated them here. 
More recently L&Cs said that Miss S was also a director of other entities that L&C says 
appear to be offering similar review services. A search for Miss S name on the Companies 
House services website only show directorships that post-date both the transactions 
complained about here and Miss S being appointed as a director of Firm A. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to review. I considered the 
request for an oral hearing and explained to both parties why I was satisfied that Im able to 
fairly determine this complaint without convening a hearing. 
Following this I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and I concluded Miss S 
complaint should be upheld. In brief, I concluded that:
I was satisfied that L&Cs policy from the relevant date, as confirmed by its directors, 
was to only accept applications from a firm authorised by the FSA and to ensure that 
(Miss S) had advice made available to her, in this case through RealSIPP.  
L&C should have been conducting checks  due diligence  on introducers and 
investments to make informed decisions about accepting business. This obligation 
was a continuing one.
The evidence provided of the due diligence undertaken by L&C into RealSIPP wasnt 
sufficient in the circumstances to have met L&Cs obligations. 
L&C didnt take appropriate steps or draw reasonable conclusions from the 
information that was available to it before accepting Miss S application.
L&C had some reasons to be concerned about the type of business RealSIPP was 
introducing. The introductions had anomalous features  high-risk business for 
unregulated overseas property developments and other esoteric investments. And, 
even though L&C believed that RealSIPP had the necessary permissions to give full 
advice on the business it was introducing, a large proportion of the introduced 
business was execution-only. 
L&C knew all of this, or else ought to have known it from the information available, 
but it didnt then make further appropriate checks of RealSIPPs business model.
Had L&C made reasonable checks prior to receiving Miss S application, it would 
have realised that some introductions from RealSIPP involved a significant risk of 
consumer detriment. 
L&C should have ceased to accept introductions from RealSIPP before it accepted 
Miss S application.In the circumstances, it was fair and reasonable for L&C to compensate Miss S to the 
full extent of the financial losses shes suffered due to L&Cs failings.
L&C didnt accept my provisional decision and solicitors for L&C provided a detailed 
response. I set out below a summary of what I consider to be the main points made in the 
response. However, the list isnt exhaustive and before making this decision I carefully 
considered the response in full: 
The provisional decision imposes a duty on L&C beyond that envisaged by the 
parties. And imposes additional duties on L&C to those provided for under the COBS. 
L&C only offered an execution-only service, Miss S knew and accepted this. 
The introduction was from a FCA regulated entity and COBS 2.4.4 provides for 
division of responsibility in such circumstances. Insufficient weight has been given to 
contractual arrangements and the demarcation of roles and responsibilities. 
No regards been paid to the respective duties of the parties under the contract. The 
entities who brought about the transaction should be held responsible.
As RealSIPP/CIB are no longer extant, weve concluded that L&Cs responsible.
The Financial Ombudsman Service may dismiss a complaint. The Pensions 
Ombudsman (TPO) or Court would be a more appropriate forum for this complaint.
The provisional decision quotes at length from R (Berkeley Burke SIPP 
Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878) but gives 
only a passing reference to Adams. 
The provisional decision doesn't properly address using the Principles as the basis 
for finding against L&C in preference to the COBS rules or established case law. 
A breach of the Principles cannot, of itself, give rise to any cause of action at law.
The Principles fall to be construed in light of the COBS rules applicable to L&C, 
L&Cs regulatory permissions, L&Cs contractual arrangements and the statutory 
objective that consumers should take responsibility for their decisions.
Publications issued after the transactions shouldnt have a bearing on this complaint.
Regulatory publications cant alter the meaning, or the scope, of the obligations 
imposed by the Principles.
Many of the matters which The 2009 Thematic Review Report invites firms to 
consider are directed at firms providing advisory services.
The provisional decision assumes examples of good practice observed by the 
regulators would have been known to the wider SIPP industry at the time.
By linking findings to good practice instead of the interpretation of the COBS rules as 
set out in case law, L&Cs held to an unreasonable standard. The standard that L&C 
should be held to is that of a reasonably competent SIPP provider. 
L&C wasnt required to request information or copies of advice. And L&C couldnt 
comment on advice without potentially being in breach of its permissions.
Duties imposed by the COBS cant all apply to all firms in all circumstances. 
The COBS rules contain some provisions and obligations that dont apply to 
execution-only SIPP providers.
The relationships in this case are similar to those in Adams, the distinguishing factor 
is that RealSIPP wasnt an unauthorised introducer.
Amongst other things, the judge in Adams held that in order to identify the extent of 
the regulatory duties imposed on Carey, "one has to identify the relevant factual 
context and that "the key fact ... in the context is the agreement into which the 
parties entered, which defined their roles in the transaction".
The judge also said that "a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best 
interests of the client, who is to take responsibility for his own decisions, cannot be 
construed...as meaning that the terms of the contract should be overlooked, that the client is not to be treated as able to reach and take responsibility for his own 
decisions and that his instructions are not to be followed.
In Adams the FCA agreed that the function of a firm, as determined by contract, 
would govern what it had to do to comply with its duties under the FCA Handbook.
L&C acted in accordance with the contract and in full satisfaction of its duty. 
The provisional decision should have found that L&Cs duties extended no further 
than those owed in Adams. But the conclusion reached is effectively that the scope 
of L&Cs duties is the same as the position advanced by the claimant in Adams. 
The provisional decision runs contrary to Adams by suggesting that, notwithstanding 
the clear contractual terms, L&C owed due diligence obligations under the Principles.
The provisional decision fails to have regard to the general principle that consumers 
should take responsibility for their decisions, the fundamental principle of freedom of 
contract and to the authority of Adams and Kerrigan v Elevate Credit International Ltd 
[2020] C.T.L.C. 161. 
Were enabling recovery of losses flowing from non-contractual obligations, which 
were inconsistent with express obligations in the parties' contractual arrangements.
There was no restriction on L&C accepting business from RealSIPP without advice 
having been given. And at the time there was no requirement that a member had to 
take advice before transferring a DBS, or for L&C to ensure that advice was taken. 
L&C wasnt in breach of any rule, guidance or law in accepting the investment.
Miss S signed a waiver form confirming that shed had the opportunity to take 
independent financial advice on the DBS transfer. 
In practice, any requirement that Miss S be offered advice was met in full, even if the 
offer didnt come from RealSIPP. So, Miss S was offered (and refused) advice.
Making a value judgment on advice wasnt within L&Cs role.
Insisting advice be offered to Miss S would have made no practical difference, as the 
decision to transfer was made before the SIPP/investment applications were signed.
Miss S knew that the TRG investments were illiquid holdings in property and that this 
was high-risk business. Further due diligence wouldnt have unearthed information 
that Miss S wasnt already aware of when she invested. 
Good title was obtained and the investments produced a return before the pandemic. 
In Adams the Store First investment being high-risk didnt make it manifestly 
unsuitable and the sames true of the Llana Beach investment. 
Miss S was more than capable of making her own decisions. Miss S submission that 
she was told there was little or no risk as the investment had guarantees runs 
contrary to the literature. And the submission that if the risks had been explained she 
wouldn't have proceeded runs contrary to the evidence.
Miss S looked to make high-risk investments, such as Global Forestry. And the 
unreliability of memory is supported by Miss S inability to recall trying to do this. 
The case of Gestmin SGPS v. Credit Suisse [2013] EWHC 3560 emphasises the 
importance of contemporaneous documents when making factual findings.
The starting point should be the documents and any recollection that runs contrary to 
the contents of these should be discarded. 
A SIPP provider cant reject business without completing a full suitability assessment. 
L&C couldnt reject business without making a value judgment on suitability for each 
individual client, this fell outside of its expertise and the terms of the contract.
L&C hasnt ever had permission to advise on investments.
A consumer who requested (and received) an execution-only service, after signing 
numerous disclaimers should be responsible for the consequences of their actions. 
Firm A was offering a pension review service, its inconceivable Miss S wouldnt have 
had some knowledge of pensions, even if she wasnt an authorised person. Miss S 
was also a director of other entities who appear to be offering similar review services.
The information its seen indicates that investment material was provided by RealSIPP. While its not seen any evidence of direct promotion by TRG, there was no 
restriction on an unregulated entity promoting an unregulated investment.
It was common practice for SIPP providers to accept such investments in 2011. If 
L&C had rejected the application, it would have proceeded with a different SIPP 
provider.
Had L&C rejected the investment it wouldnt have been able to give reasons for this 
without breaching its permissions. 
Its procedurally irregular that a fact-sensitive matter like this should be decided on 
the papers, and it requests an oral hearing.
Miss S had nothing substantive to add in response to my provisional decision.
I carefully considered L&Cs second request for an oral hearing and explained to both parties 
why I was satisfied that Im able to fairly determine this complaint without convening a 
hearing. L&C was also provided with a copy of any information I relied on in reaching my 
provisional decision that it might not previously have seen and it was invited to let us have 
any further submissions it wished to make on that information.
What Ive decided  and why
In response to my provisional decision, amongst other things, L&Cs said that it believes the 
complaint is better suited to be considered by TPO or a Court. Its appropriate to address 
this issue before I reconsider my provisional decision.  
Having carefully considered L&Cs submissions on this point, Im satisfied that Miss S 
complaint is one we can and should consider. Weve a statutory duty to resolve complaints 
referred to us which are within our jurisdiction, subject to certain discretions which are set 
out in our rules. Regarding L&Cs submission about TPO; the rules set out in the FCA 
Handbook, at DISP 3.4.1R, say: 
The Ombudsman may refer a complaint to another complaints scheme where: 
(1) he considers that it would be more suitable for the matter to be determined by that 
scheme; and 
(2) the complainant consents to the referral. 
L&Cs argued that Miss S complaint should be referred to TPO. And I could now refer the 
complaint to TPO on the basis of DISP 3.4.1R if I take the view its more suitable for TPO 
and if, in the light of that view, Miss S consents to a referral to TPO. 
But I dont consider this is a complaint that would be more suitable for determination by TPO. 
This complaint requires consideration to be given to the rules and principles set down by the 
FCA. In my view, these are matters which the Financial Ombudsman Service is particularly 
well placed to deal with. Im also satisfied we possess the necessary knowledge and 
expertise to fairly determine the complaint. Our investigation is also well advanced. So I 
dont think it would be more suitable for the subject matter of this complaint to be considered 
by TPO. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive considered the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) 
between our service and TPO. The MoU is a document about practical cooperation where 
theres remit overlap between the two organisations  however the MoU doesnt determine 
the jurisdiction of either organisation. Ultimately, DISP 3.4.1R says that I may refer the 
complaint to another complaints scheme, not that I must. So Ive discretion to decide what Ill 
do in the circumstances. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided to exercise my 
discretion not to refer Miss S complaint to TPO. For similar reasons, Im satisfied that I dont need to exercise my discretion to dismiss the 
complaint under DISP 3.3.4 AR on the basis it would significantly impair our effective 
operation, as it is more suitable to be dealt with by a Court or a comparable ADR entity. As 
Ive explained, Im satisfied the complaints well suited to the work of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. We have significant experience of dealing with complaints of this type 
and are well-placed to consider them. Considering Miss S complaint would not in my view 
seriously impair our effective operation. 
So, overall: 
I dont consider that it would be more suitable for this complaint to be determined by 
TPO and Ive decided not to exercise my discretion to refer it.
Im not required to dismiss this complaint, and for the reasons Ive given, Im not 
exercising my discretion to dismiss it. 
As such, Ive gone on to reconsider the merits of this complaint below.
Merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account of 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
 
As a preliminary point, I should also say the purpose of this decision is to set out my findings 
on whats fair and reasonable, and explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to 
offer a point by point response to every submission made by the parties to the complaint. 
And so whilst I have considered all the submissions made by both parties, and have 
reconsidered all the points covered in my provisional decision, Ive focussed here on the 
points I believe to be key to my decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, including the submissions in response to 
my provisional decision, Im still of the view that the relevant considerations in this case are 
those that Id previously set out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into 
account all of the submissions that have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said 
about this point in my provisional decision.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide: 
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman whod upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Miss S case. 
Ive reconsidered whether Adams means that the Principles should not be taken into
account in deciding this case. And, I remain of the view that it doesnt. I note that the 
Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial case against 
Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles to SIPP 
operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the application 
of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything about how the 
Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I dont 
say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive taken 
account of both judgments when making this decision on Miss S case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of the FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight 
rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on 
the facts of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction. 
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Miss S complaint. The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the 
contractual relationship between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of 
COBS 2.1.1R that happened after the contract was entered into. And he wasnt asked to 
consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. And in Miss S complaint, amongst other things, Im considering whether L&C ought to have 
identified that the introductions from RealSIPP involved a significant risk of consumer 
detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from RealSIPP 
before entering into a contract with Miss S. 
 
The facts of Mr Adams and Miss S cases are also different. And I need to construe the 
duties L&C owed to Miss S under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of Miss S case.  
So Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Miss S case, including L&Cs role in the transaction.  
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that L&C was under any obligation to advise Miss S 
on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application isnt the 
same thing as advising Miss S on the merits of the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. 
Overall, Im satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Miss S case.   
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) issued a number of publications which reminded 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
Ive again considered the relevance of these publications. And Ive set out material parts of 
the publications here, although Ive considered them in their entirety.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 Report included the following statement: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence, the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety. 
In its response to my provisional decision L&C said the 2009 thematic review isnt statutory 
guidance. Thats a point I acknowledged in my provisional decision. And I again 
acknowledge here that the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports and the Dear CEO 
letter arent formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, I remain of 
the view that the fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance 
doesnt mean their importance should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the 
Principles for Businesses apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator 
might do to ensure its treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by 
the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of 
what SIPP operators should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts 
to good industry practice, and Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into 
account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
L&Cs also said that the 2009 Thematic Review Report didnt provide guidance in any 
meaningful sense. At its introduction the Report says:
In this report, we describe the findings of this thematic review, and make clear what
we expect of SIPP operator firms in the areas we reviewed. It also provides 
examples of good practices we found.
And, as referenced above, the report goes on to provide examples of measures that
SIPP operators could consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and
suggestions we have made to firms.
So, Im satisfied that the Report is a reminder that the Principles apply and it gives an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The Report set out 
the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be doing and therefore indicates 
what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time. So I remain satisfied 
its relevant and therefore appropriate to take it into account.In its response to my provisional decision, including when making its points about the 
regulatory publications, L&Cs referenced the R. (on the application of Aviva Life and 
Pensions (UK) Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2017] EWHC 352 (Admin) case. 
However, whilst the judge in that case made some observations about the application of our 
statutory remit, that remit remains unchanged. And, as noted above, in considering whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case, Im required to take into account 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
L&Cs also said that many of the matters which the Report invites firms to consider are 
directed at firms providing advisory services. Its not specified which parts of the Report it 
thinks are directed at such firms but, to be clear, I think the Reports also directed at firms 
like L&C acting purely as SIPP operators. The Report says that We are very clear that SIPP 
operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the 
Principles for Businesses And its noted prior to the good practice examples quoted 
above that We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to 
have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, 
enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such 
as unsuitable SIPPs.
Im also satisfied that L&C, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought the 
2009 Thematic Review Report was relevant. L&Cs acknowledged in its submissions that the 
Reports relevant to how it conducts its business and highlights some areas of good practice. 
And L&C did carry out some due diligence on RealSIPP. So, it clearly thought it was good 
practice to do so, at the very least. 
The remainder of the publications also provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good 
industry practice at the relevant time. I therefore remain satisfied its appropriate to take 
them into account too.
Ive carefully considered what L&Cs said about publications published after Miss S SIPP 
was set up. But I remain of the view stated in my provisional decisional that, like the 
ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the publications, (other than the 2009 
Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took place in relation to Miss S 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide werent good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports (and the Dear 
CEO letter in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the 
regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good 
practice standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its 
clear the standards themselves hadnt changed.
I note L&Cs point that the judge in the Adams case didnt consider the 2012 Thematic 
Review Report, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance 
to his consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are 
irrelevant to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Im required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider L&Cs 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were the 
limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what 
should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
The regulator also issued an alert in 2013 about advisers giving advice to consumers on 
SIPPs without consideration of the underlying investment to be held in the SIPP. The alert 
(Advising on pension transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated 
products through a SIPP) set out that this type of restricted advice didnt meet regulatory 
requirements. It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement 
savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in 
high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some which may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes).
 
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability 
of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. 
The alert post-dates the events in this complaint  but, again, it didnt set new standards. It 
highlighted that advisers using the restricted advice model discussed in the alert generally 
werent meeting existing regulatory requirements and set out the regulators concerns about 
industry practices at the time. 
To be clear, and as I confirmed in my provisional decision, I dont say the Principles or the 
publications obliged L&C to ensure the transactions were suitable for Miss S. Its accepted 
L&C wasnt required to give advice to Miss S, and couldnt give advice. And I accept the 
publications dont alter the meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But theyre evidence 
of what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would 
bring about the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. As L&C notes from the FCAs 
Enforcement Guide, publications of this type illustrate ways (but not the only ways) in which 
a person can comply with the relevant rules. And so its fair and reasonable for me to take 
them into account when deciding this complaint.
Id also add that, even if I agreed with L&C that any publications or guidance that post-dated 
the events subject of this complaint dont help to clarify the type of good industry practice 
that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that doesnt alter my view on what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. Thats because I find that the 2009 Report 
together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what L&C could and should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant time before 
accepting Miss S introduction from RealSIPP.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams v Options didnt consider the regulatory 
publications in the context of considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the regulators rules) or 
good industry practice.
And in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Miss S SIPP 
application from RealSIPP, L&C complied with its regulatory obligations: to act with due skill, 
care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly 
and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly; and 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally. In doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what L&C should have done to comply 
with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Submissions have been made about breaches of the Principles not giving rise to any cause 
of action at law, and breaches of guidance not giving rise to a claim for damages under the 
FSMA. Ive carefully considered these submissions but, to be clear, its not my role to 
determine whether something thats taken place gives rise to a right to take legal action. Im 
making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and 
for all the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the Principles and the publications 
listed above are relevant considerations to that decision. 
So taking account of the factual context of this case, it remains my view that in order for L&C 
to meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), amongst other 
things it should have undertaken sufficient due diligence into RealSIPP and the business 
RealSIPP was introducing, both initially and on an ongoing basis. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, its appropriate to take an
inquisitorial approach. And, ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether L&C took
reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Miss S fairly, in accordance with her 
best interests. And what I thinks fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key issue 
in Miss S complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable for L&C to have accepted Miss S 
SIPP application in the first place. So, I need to consider whether L&C carried out 
appropriate due diligence checks on RealSIPP before deciding to accept Miss S SIPP 
application.
L&C says it carried out due diligence on RealSIPP before accepting business from it. And 
from what Ive seen I accept that it undertook some checks. However, the questions I need 
to consider are whether L&C ought to, acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice, have identified that consumers introduced by 
RealSIPP were being put at significant risk of detriment. And, if so, whether L&C should 
therefore not have accepted Miss S application from RealSIPP.
The contract between L&C and Miss S 
In its response to my provisional decision, L&Cs made a number of references to its 
contract with Miss S. Ive carefully considered what L&Cs said about this. 
My provisional decision was made on the understanding that L&C acted purely as a SIPP 
operator and this final decision is made on the same basis. I dont say L&C should (or could) 
have given advice to Miss S or otherwise have ensured the suitability of the SIPP or Llana Beach investment for her. I accept that L&C made it clear to Miss S that it wasnt giving, nor 
was it able to give, advice and that it played an execution-only role in her SIPP investments. 
And that forms Miss S signed confirmed, amongst other things, that losses arising as a result 
of L&C acting on her instructions were her responsibility. 
Ive not overlooked or discounted the basis on which L&C was appointed. And my decision 
on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss S case is made with all of this in 
mind. So, Ive proceeded on the understanding that L&C wasnt obliged  and wasnt able  
to give advice to Miss S on the suitability of the SIPP or Llana Beach investment. But I 
remain satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its operation of 
SIPPs business, L&C had to decide whether to accept introductions of business with the 
Principles in mind. And I dont agree that it couldnt have rejected introductions or 
applications without contravening its regulatory permissions by giving investment advice.
What did L&Cs obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business L&C was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. And I remain 
satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its operation of SIPPs 
business, L&C had to decide whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or 
referrals of business with the Principles in mind.
The regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included being satisfied that a 
particular introducer/investment is appropriate to deal with/accept. That involves conducting 
checks  due diligence  on introducers and investments to make informed decisions about 
accepting business. This obligation was a continuing one. 
As set out above, to comply with the Principles, L&C needed to conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence; organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively; and 
pay due regard to the interests of its clients (including Miss S) and treat them fairly. Its 
obligations and duties in this respect werent prescriptive and depended on the nature of the 
circumstances, information and events on an ongoing basis.
And I think that L&C understood this at the time too, as it did more than just check the FSA 
entries for RealSIPP and CIB to ensure they were regulated to give advice. It also entered 
into intermediary agreements with those firms. And its apparent that L&C had access to 
some information about the type and volume of introductions it was receiving from 
RealSIPP, as its been able to provide us with information about this when requested.
So, and well before the time of Miss S application, I think that L&C ought to have 
understood that its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out appropriate 
checks on RealSIPP to ensure the quality of the business it was introducing. 
And I think L&C also ought to have understood that its obligations meant that it had a 
responsibility to carry out appropriate due diligence on investments before accepting them 
into a SIPP. I think L&Cs submissions on the due diligence it undertook prior to allowing 
Llana Beach holdings within its SIPPs reflect this. So, Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory 
obligations when conducting its business, L&C was also required to consider whether to 
accept or reject a particular investment (here Llana Beach), with the Principles in mind.
L&Cs due diligence on RealSIPP
L&C appears to have carried out the following checks before it accepted business from 
RealSIPP: It checked the FSA register to ensure that RealSIPP and its principal were regulated 
and authorised to give financial advice. 
It entered into intermediary agreements with RealSIPP and its principal.
And, prior to accepting Miss S application, it also had access to some information about the 
type and volume of introductions it was receiving from RealSIPP.
L&Cs also explained that at the date of Miss S application, it wouldn't have accepted 
applications from a firm that wasnt authorised by the FSA. And L&C also says its directors 
from the relevant period have confirmed its policy was that applicants effecting a pension 
transfer, like Miss S, had to have had advice made available to them which would, as L&C 
put it, in this case (have been) through RealSIPP. And that it was then for the applicant to 
choose whether to take up the intermediarys offer of advice.
Clarity on the specifics of L&Cs policy at the relevant time hasnt been helped by L&Cs 
comments about this changing during our investigation. But L&Cs directors recollections 
appear to align with the questions and answers about DBS transfers contained in L&Cs New 
Business Checklist for Miss S application. And, on balance, I think its most likely that the 
position confirmed by L&Cs directors from the relevant period is the correct one. 
These steps go some way towards meeting L&Cs regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice. But I remain of the view L&C failed to conduct sufficient due diligence on RealSIPP 
before accepting business from it or draw fair and reasonable conclusions from what it did 
know about RealSIPP. My view remains that L&C ought reasonably to have concluded it 
should not accept business from RealSIPP, and have ended its relationship with it, before 
Miss S application was made. I say this because:
L&C was aware of or should have identified potential risks of consumer detriment 
associated with business introduced by RealSIPP at the outset of its relationship with 
RealSIPP, and certainly by the time of Miss S application:
oThere was insufficient evidence to show RealSIPP (or any other regulated 
party) was offering or giving full regulated advice (that is advice on the 
transfer or switch to the SIPP and the intended investment).
oThe introductions had anomalous features  high-risk business, in relatively 
high volumes, for unregulated overseas property developments and other 
esoteric investments. And, even though RealSIPP had the necessary 
permissions to give full advice on the business it was introducing, it wasnt 
giving advice on a large proportion of that business. 
oTRG or an unregulated business associated with it (First Resort Property 
Services Limited) was promoting the Llana Beach investments.
L&C should have taken steps to address these risks (or, given these risks, have 
simply declined to deal further with RealSIPP). 
Such steps should have involved getting a full understanding of RealSIPPs business 
model  through requesting information from RealSIPP and through independent 
checks. 
Such understanding would have revealed there was a significant risk of consumer 
detriment associated with introductions of business from RealSIPP.
In the alternative RealSIPP would have been unwilling to answer or fully answer the 
questions about its business model. In either event L&C should have concluded it shouldnt accept introductions from 
RealSIPP.
Ive set out below some more detail on the potential risks of consumer detriment L&C either 
knew about or ought to have known about at the time of Miss S application. These points 
overlap, to a degree, and should have been considered by L&C cumulatively.  
The availability of advice
L&C entered into intermediary agreements with RealSIPP and its principal, CIB. As part of 
this process, it was open to L&C to mention to RealSIPP any policy requirements it had for 
full regulated advice to be made available to applicants where introduced business involved 
pension transfers. L&C could have highlighted this in the intermediary application form, The 
Intermediary Agreement for Non-Insured Contracts, or in supplementary correspondence 
with RealSIPP. 
However, no correspondence Ive seen between L&C and RealSIPP mentioned this. Miss S 
SIPP application also made it clear that advice hadnt been given at the point of sale. 
In its response to my provisional decision L&Cs made further submissions about a waiver 
form. As Ive mentioned previously, the administrator of Miss S DBS had enclosed a waiver 
form alongside a letter it sent to TRG on 14 October 2011. Miss S subsequently signed and 
returned a waiver form to the same administrator. And it was stated, amongst other things, in 
the form that shed had the opportunity to take independent financial advice on the transfer. 
Its not stated in the waiver form that a regulated firm had offered advice to Miss S on the 
transfer and that shed refused that advice. So, Im not in agreement with L&Cs submission 
that Miss S was offered and refused advice. And, having carefully considered all of the 
available evidence, I think its most likely that Miss S wasnt ever offered full regulated advice 
by a regulated advisory firm with the necessary permissions.
L&Cs solicitors have suggested that theres some evidence that advice might have been 
given to Miss S by RealSIPP/CIB, highlighting comments about a fee agreement. But I dont 
agree this is evidence that advice was given by RealSIPP/CIB; the annual fee of £300 wasnt 
for advice, as the Keyfacts document explains its for ongoing administration and 
correspondence. So, Ive seen no evidence that Miss S was ever offered full regulated 
advice on the transactions this complaint concerns by RealSIPP or its principal (or any other 
regulated advisory firm). As its client agreement and Keyfacts document make clear, 
RealSIPP wasnt offering clients like Miss S the option of any regulated advice on the 
proposed transactions, let alone full regulated advice.
So, based on the available evidence, I think there was insufficient basis for L&C to 
reasonably assume that advice had been given to Miss S or had been made available to 
Miss S and declined. 
The possibility no regulated advice had been given or made available was a clear and 
obvious potential risk of consumer detriment here. Miss S was transferring around £300,000 
from a DBS to invest (entirely) in an overseas property development  a move which was 
highly unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail clients.  
Anomalous features
RealSIPP was introducing consumers who were all investing in high risk non-standard 
assets  The introductions L&C received from RealSIPP were for applicants looking to invest in high-
risk non-standard esoteric holdings, such as the unregulated overseas property development 
Llana Beach Miss S was investing in. As mentioned, I think its fair to say that such 
investments are highly unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail clients. They will 
generally only be suitable for a small proportion of the population  sophisticated and/or high 
net worth investors. The risks are multiplied where the property is off plan and further 
funding is necessary from investors to complete the purchases, as was the case with many 
of the deposit based TRG investments, including those Miss S made. 
So, I think L&C either was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that the type of 
business RealSIPP was introducing was high-risk and therefore carried a potential risk of 
consumer detriment on this basis too. 
High proportion of execution-only business
In addition to the possibility no advice had been given or made available to Miss S, the 
available evidence also shows L&C was, or should have been, aware that not offering or 
giving advice was something RealSIPP was doing routinely. 
Its clear that L&C had access to information about the number and nature of introductions 
that RealSIPP made, as its been able to provide us with details about this when requested. 
An example of good practice identified in the FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report was:
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified. 
So I dont think simply keeping records without scrutinising that information would be 
consistent with good industry practice and L&Cs regulatory obligations. As highlighted in the 
2009 Thematic Review Report, the reason why the records are important is so that 
potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
From the figures L&Cs provided, a little under half the introductions from RealSIPP were 
transacted as execution-only business (i.e. with no advice being given by RealSIPP). Thats 
a large proportion of the total business RealSIPP introduced, and I think its likely that 
RealSIPP had introduced business to L&C without providing advice on a number of 
occasions before Miss S introduction.
So I think that, from very early on, L&C was on notice that RealSIPP, although the appointed 
representative of a regulated business that had permissions to advise on the business being 
introduced, wasnt a firm that was doing things in a conventional way. And I think L&C ought 
to have recognised that there was a risk that RealSIPP might be choosing to introduce some 
consumers not only without them being given full regulated advice but also without having 
been offered full regulated advice.
I think this ought to have been a red flag for L&C in its dealings with RealSIPP. Its highly 
unusual for regulated advice firms to be involved in execution-only transactions involving 
pension transfers to invest in high-risk esoteric investments, such as unregulated overseas 
property developments. Thats because the risks involved in such transactions are unlikely to 
be fully understood by most people, without obtaining regulated advice. I think its fair to say 
that most advice firms decline to be involved in such transactions and certainly dont transact 
this kind of business in significant volumes. I think L&C ought to have viewed this as a serious cause for concern  this was a further 
clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment. 
Volume of business
L&Cs said 153 members were introduced by RealSIPP and over a quarter of these had an 
Occupational Pension Scheme. Prior to Miss S application, RealSIPP had introduced 44 
applications in about 9 months. I think that L&C should have been concerned that such a 
volume of introductions, relating exclusively to consumers investing in higher-risk esoteric 
investments was unusual  particularly from a small IFA business. And it should have 
considered how a small IFA business introducing this volume of higher-risk business was 
able to meet regulatory standards.
And I think this concern ought to have been even greater in a case like Miss S where a DBS 
was involved. At the relevant date COBS 19.1.6G stated: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should 
start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only 
then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interest. 
While I acknowledge this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser 
when determining the suitability of a pension transfer, it emphasises the regulators concern 
about the potential detriment such a transaction could expose a consumer to. Given the 
nature of its business and regulatory status, Id expect L&C to have been familiar with the 
guidance contained in the COBS  even if it didnt apply directly to it. 
This was a further clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment. 
The involvement of an unregulated business
I think its most likely from the available evidence that an unregulated party was involved with 
the promotion of the TRG investment to some consumers introduced to L&C (including Miss 
S) and that this ought to have been known by L&C. 
The third-party due diligence report L&C obtained on Llana Beach explained that TRG was 
promoting its products in the UK through First Resort Property Services Limited. Neither 
TRG nor First Resort Property Services Limited were regulated by the FSA. 
Following my provisional decision L&C was provided with any information it might not have 
previously seen that Id relied on, including testimony from Miss S on TRGs role in 
proceedings. Miss S recollections show it was likely TRG, or an unregulated business 
working with TRG, was involved in promoting the TRG investment as an investment for her 
pension.
In its early submissions, L&C said its reasonable to assume that Miss S didnt walk into 
RealSIPPs offices and state that she wanted an L&C SIPP and to invest in Llana Beach. As 
I explained in my provisional decision, I agree with L&C about this; its unlikely Miss S 
decided to transfer her pension to a SIPP in order to invest in TRG of her own volition. And I 
think thats consistent with the testimony Miss S has provided on this issue. 
L&Cs inference is that it was RealSIPP who gave advice. But that wasnt reflected in the 
content of Miss S application form. That form clearly stated Advice not given at point of sale 
to client. L&Cs confirmed that it processed the application on that basis. And, as noted above, Miss S application involved transferring around £300,000 from a DBS to invest solely 
in TRG. So if L&Cs view (which I share) was that it was unlikely Miss S made the decision to 
transfer to the SIPP and invest in TRG of her own volition it ought to have been alive to the 
risk TRG or an unregulated business working with it was involved in promoting the TRG 
investment as an investment for Miss S pension, and that Miss S might have been sold on 
the idea of transferring her pension so as to invest in Llana Beach before the involvement of 
any regulated parties. 
Although the promotion of TRG wasnt in itself a regulated activity, this was nonetheless 
another clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment  particularly where pension 
investors were being targeted, as appears to be the case here. L&C should have been alive 
to the risks associated with an unregulated firm promoting an investment for SIPPs which 
was unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail clients, particularly so where full 
regulated advice wasnt being received by consumers, and TRG may have effectively been 
promoting its own investment, without being subject to regulatory controls.  
What fair and reasonable steps should L&C have taken, in the circumstances?
L&C could simply have concluded that, given the potential risks of consumer detriment  
which I think were clear and obvious at the time  it should not accept applications from 
RealSIPP. That would have been a fair and reasonable step to take, in the circumstances. 
Alternatively, L&C could have taken fair and reasonable steps to address the potential risks 
of consumer detriment. Ive set these out below. 
Requesting information directly from RealSIPP 
Given the significant potential risk of consumer detriment I think that, as part of its due 
diligence on RealSIPP, L&C ought to have found out more about how RealSIPP was 
operating long before it received Miss S application. And mindful of the type of introductions 
it was receiving from RealSIPP from the outset, I think its fair and reasonable to expect 
L&C, in-line with its regulatory obligations, to have made some specific enquiries and 
obtained information about RealSIPPs business model. 
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report explained that the regulator would 
expect SIPP operators to have procedures and controls, and for management information to 
be gathered and analysed, so as to enable the identification of, amongst other things, 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Further, that this could then be addressed 
in an appropriate manner for example by contacting the members to confirm the position, 
or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. 
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance gave an example of good practice as: 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
And I think that L&C, before accepting further applications from RealSIPP, should have 
checked with RealSIPP about: how it came into contact with potential clients, what 
agreements it had in place with its clients, whether all of the clients it was introducing were 
being offered advice, what its arrangements with any unregulated businesses were, how and 
why retail clients were interested in making these esoteric investments, whether it was 
aware of anyone else providing information to clients, how it was able to meet with or speak 
with all its clients, and what material was being provided to clients by it. I think its most likely if L&C had asked RealSIPP for this information that RealSIPP would 
have provided a full response to the information sought. And that, amongst other things, L&C 
would have then been provided with copies of client agreements and Keyfacts documents 
that RealSIPP was providing to different consumers it was introducing to L&C. Including a 
copy of the about our services for our Resort Group SIPP package document. 
L&Cs said it didnt have to obtain copies of Keyfacts documents or client agreements from 
RealSIPP. But I think this was a fair and reasonable step to take, in the circumstances, to 
meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice. 
Making independent checks 
I think, in light of what Ive said above, it would also have been fair and reasonable for L&C, 
to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, to have taken independent 
steps to satisfy itself that full regulated advice was being offered to applicants like Miss S. 
For example, it could have asked for copies of correspondence in which applicants were 
being offered advice. 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report said that: 
we would expect (SIPP operators) to have procedures and controls, and to be 
gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify possible 
instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such 
instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm 
giving advice and asking for clarification. (bold my emphasis) 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report also said that an example of good practice was: 
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
So I think it would have been fair and reasonable for L&C to speak to some applicants, like 
Miss S, directly and to ask whether theyd been offered full regulated advice on their 
transactions and seek copies of the suitability reports. 
L&Cs said it couldnt comment on advice without potentially being in breach of its 
permissions. Again, I confirm that I accept L&C couldnt give advice. But it had to take 
reasonable steps to meet its regulatory obligations. And in my view such steps included 
addressing a potential risk of consumer detriment by speaking to applicants and having sight 
of advice letters, as this could have provided L&C with further insight into RealSIPPs 
business model, and helped to clarify to L&C whether full regulated advice on the overall 
proposition was being offered/given. This was a fair and reasonable step to take in reaction 
to the clear and obvious risks of consumer detriment Ive mentioned. 
Had it taken these fair and reasonable steps, what should L&C have concluded?
If L&C had undertaken these steps I think it ought to have identified, amongst others, the 
following risks before it received Miss S application: 
RealSIPP was explaining to consumers like Miss S that its role was solely as 
administrator and packager of the SIPP.Consumers were being introduced to L&C without having been offered full regulated 
advice. 
RealSIPP was having business referred to it by TRG, and it was then introducing 
business to L&C.
Some consumers might have been sold on the idea of transferring pension monies 
so as to invest in Llana Beach before the involvement of any regulated parties. 
The other anomalous features Ive mentioned did carry a significant risk of consumer 
detriment.
Each of these in isolation is significant, but cumulatively I think they demonstrate that there 
was a significant risk of consumer detriment associated with introductions from RealSIPP. 
L&C ought to have concluded RealSIPP had a complete disregard for its consumers best 
interests, and wasnt meeting many of its regulatory obligations. 
Had L&C carried out the due diligence Ive mentioned above, I think it should have identified 
that consumers introduced by RealSIPP hadnt been offered, or received, full regulated 
advice from RealSIPP on their transactions. 
As previously stated, RealSIPP wasnt offering clients like Miss S the option of any regulated 
advice on the proposed transactions, let alone full advice. It was acting as administrator and 
packager of the SIPP  an unusual role for an advisory firm to take. This raises significant 
questions about the motivations and competency of RealSIPP  particularly where 
consumers were being introduced to it by unregulated businesses. 
Im aware that in some cases RealSIPP did refer some consumers to CIB for advice. But in 
those instances Im aware of where CIB did advise consumers to consider establishing a 
L&C SIPP, it didnt offer full regulated advice; it restricted its advice to the transfer of existing 
pension scheme(s) to the SIPP, referencing generic risks and without the specific TRG 
investment being named or discussed. As CIB explained in its client agreement:
In this particular instance we are restricting our services to the establishment and 
set-up of a specific SIPP to enable commercial property purchase. We will not be 
providing any advice on the suitability of this package to your own personal 
circumstances and you should seek professional advice where necessary.
So, in these instances, CIB wasnt discussing the specific risks associated with the TRG 
investment or advising on the suitability of the overall proposition for the consumer (i.e. 
including the intended TRG investment). This raises significant questions about the 
motivations and competency of CIB. 
I think that if L&C had made enquiries with some applicants introduced by RealSIPP at the 
time, like Miss S, their responses would have been consistent with what RealSIPP (and, 
where relevant, CIB) had disclosed to them in relation to the extent of its role. 
I therefore think L&C ought to have concluded Miss S  and applicants before her  didnt 
have full regulated advice made available to them by any route. And have viewed this as a 
significant point of concern. As retail consumers, like Miss S, were transferring their existing 
pension monies to L&C to invest entirely in higher-risk esoteric investments, including 
unregulated overseas property developments such as Llana Beach without the benefit of 
having been offered full regulated advice, by a business which appeared to be actively 
avoiding any responsibility to give advice. 
I also think L&C should have concluded that consumers introduced by RealSIPP who were 
investing in TRG were likely being sold on the TRG investments by an unregulated business. As mentioned, the third-party due diligence report L&C obtained on Llana Beach 
discloses the involvement of an unregulated business. And I think, if asked, Miss S would 
have explained how her application came about  which, as I mention, was likely the result 
of the involvement of an unregulated business or businesses. 
With the above in mind, L&C should also have concluded that the overall volume of business 
and the proportion of consumers who werent apparently receiving any advice asked further 
serious questions about the motivation and competency of RealSIPP. 
As such, I think L&C should have concluded  certainly by the time of Miss S application 
and long before it  that it wasnt in accordance with its obligations, or its own policy 
requirements, to accept introductions from RealSIPP. I therefore conclude that its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to say that L&C shouldnt have accepted 
Miss S application from RealSIPP.
L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, 
or treat Miss S fairly by accepting her application from RealSIPP. To my mind, L&C didnt 
meet its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the relevant time, and allowed 
Miss S to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result. 
Due diligence on the underlying investments
L&C had a duty to conduct due diligence and give thought to whether an investment itself is 
acceptable for inclusion into a SIPP. Thats consistent with the Principles and the regulators 
publications as set out earlier in this decision. Its also consistent with HMRC rules that 
govern what investments can be held in a SIPP.
I accept that the Llana Beach investment doesnt appear to be fraudulent or a scam. But this 
doesnt mean that L&C did all the checks it needed to do. However, given what Ive said 
about L&Cs due diligence on RealSIPP and my conclusion that it failed to comply with its 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice at the relevant time, I dont think its 
necessary for me to also consider L&Cs due diligence on the Llana Beach investment at this 
stage. Im satisfied that L&C wasnt treating Miss S fairly or reasonably when it accepted her 
introduction from RealSIPP, so Ive not gone on to consider the due diligence it may have 
carried out on the Llana Beach investment and whether this was sufficient to meet its 
regulatory obligations. And I make no findings about this issue.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to proceed with Miss S 
application?
For the reasons previously given above, I think L&C should have refused to accept Miss S 
application from RealSIPP. So things shouldnt have got beyond that. 
L&Cs referred to forms Miss S signed. In my view its fair and reasonable to say that just 
having Miss S sign indemnity declarations, or relying on a waiver form she signed for the 
administrator of her DBS, wasnt an effective way for L&C to meet its regulatory obligations 
to treat her fairly, given the concerns L&C ought to have had about her introduction. 
L&C knew that Miss S had signed forms intended to indemnify it against losses that arose 
from acting on her instructions. And, in my opinion, relying on such indemnities when L&C 
knew, or ought to have known, Miss S dealings with RealSIPP were putting her at significant 
risk wasnt the fair and reasonable thing to do. Nor was placing any reliance on the waiver 
form when, as Ive set out, it didnt clearly show full regulated advice had been offered. 
Having identified the risks Ive mentioned above, its my view that the fair and reasonable 
thing to do would have been to refuse to accept Miss S application. The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. And I dont think the 
paperwork Miss S signed meant that L&C could ignore its duty to treat her fairly. To be clear, 
Im satisfied that indemnities contained within the contractual documents dont absolve, nor 
do they attempt to absolve, L&C of its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly when 
deciding whether to accept or reject business. 
Im satisfied that Miss S SIPP shouldnt have been established and the opportunity to 
execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity shouldnt have arisen 
at all. And Im firmly of the view that it wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
L&C to proceed with Miss S application.
Is it fair to ask L&C to pay Miss S compensation in the circumstances?
The involvement of other parties
In this decision Im considering Miss S complaint about L&C. However, I accept that other 
regulated parties were involved in the transactions complained about  RealSIPP and CIB. 
L&Cs contended that its RealSIPP/CIB thats really responsible for Miss S losses. CIB 
would be the respondent for complaints about activities RealSIPP undertook as an 
appointed representative of CIB. And the Financial Ombudsman Service wont look at 
complaints against CIB, as its been dissolved and no longer exists as a regulated business. 
We also cant look at complaints about TRG.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award,
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a Court would award compensation (DISP
3.7.2R).
As I set out above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold L&C accountable for its own failure to comply with the its regulatory obligations, good 
industry practice and to treat Miss S fairly.
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require L&C to pay Miss S 
compensation for the loss shes suffered as a result of its failings. Ive carefully considered if 
theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask L&C to compensate Miss S for her loss, 
including whether it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part.
And, for the following reasons, I consider it appropriate and fair in the circumstances for
L&C to compensate Miss S to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered due to
L&Cs failings.
I accept that it may be the case that TRG, RealSIPP or CIB might have some responsibility 
for initiating the course of action that led to Miss S loss. However, Im satisfied that its also 
the case that if L&C had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP 
operator, the arrangement for Miss S wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the 
loss shes suffered could have been avoided.
If L&C agrees to pay the calculated redress in full then, if it wishes, and before compensation 
is paid, L&C could have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action Miss S has 
against any other parties involved in the transactions this complaint concerns.
I want to make clear that Ive carefully taken everything L&Cs said into consideration. And 
its my view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Miss S 
to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered due to L&Cs failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that it would be 
appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that L&Cs liable 
to pay to Miss S.
To be clear, Im not making a finding that L&C should have assessed the suitability of the 
SIPP or the Llana Beach holdings for Miss S. I accept that L&C wasnt obligated to give 
advice to Miss S, or otherwise to ensure the suitability of the pension wrapper or investments 
for her. Rather, Im looking at L&Cs separate role and responsibilities  and for the reasons 
Ive explained, I think it failed in meeting those responsibilities.
Miss S taking responsibility for her own investment decisions
Its been submitted that in construing L&Cs obligations, regard should be had to section 
5(2)(d) of the FSMA (now section 1C). This section requires the FCA, in securing an 
appropriate degree of protection for consumers, to have regard to, amongst other things, the 
general principle that consumers should take responsibility for their own investment 
decisions.
Ive considered this point carefully and Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
say Miss S actions mean she should bear the loss arising as a result of L&Cs failings. 
In my view, if L&C had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice it shouldnt have accepted Miss S application from RealSIPP to open a SIPP at all. 
That should have been the end of the matter  if that had happened, Im satisfied the 
arrangement for Miss S wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss shes 
suffered could have been avoided.
As Ive made clear, L&C needed to carry out appropriate due diligence on RealSIPP and
reach the right conclusions. I think it failed to do this. And just having Miss S sign forms 
containing declarations wasnt an effective way of L&C meeting its obligations, or of 
escaping liability where it failed to meet its obligations. 
Further, I dont think L&C could have taken any meaningful comfort from the declarations 
contained in the forms Miss S signed that she had, in fact, been offered full regulated advice 
on the SIPP, the DBS transfer in and the investment in Llana Beach. In response to my 
provisional decision L&Cs said it understands this to mean that regulated advice being 
offered couldnt give comfort to L&C. And that advice being offered negates any of the 
criticism of L&Cs conduct. Thats a misunderstanding of what Ive said.
I accept L&Cs misunderstanding might have arisen from my phrasing. So, to be clear, 
whats stated in the passage isnt that Miss S had been offered and refused advice  as Ive 
explained in my provisional decision and repeated in this final decision Im satisfied from the 
available evidence that RealSIPP wasnt offering clients like Miss S the option of any 
regulated advice on the proposed transactions, let alone full advice. 
Im satisfied that if L&C had carried out adequate due diligence on RealSIPP prior to 
receiving Miss S application it ought reasonably to have been aware of this fact. And, once 
aware of this, I dont think L&C could have reasonably taken any meaningful comfort from 
declarations contained in forms that were contrary to the information L&C had obtained.
In other words, once it was apparent to L&C that RealSIPP wasnt, in fact, offering clients 
like Miss S the option of any regulated advice on the proposed transactions, let alone full 
advice, I dont think it would have been fair or reasonable for L&C to have taken any 
meaningful comfort from a statement in a form that ran contrary to something L&C already 
knew, or ought to have known, had it undertaken adequate due diligence. Ive carefully considered what L&Cs said about Miss S being aware of the risks. But, from 
the evidence Ive seen Ive no reason to doubt Miss S when she says that she didnt receive 
an explanation of the risks involved, and that she was led to believe thered be little or no 
risk. I dont agree with L&C that Miss S submissions on this point run contrary to the 
available evidence. And I wouldnt consider it fair or reasonable for L&C to have concluded 
that Miss S had received an explanation of the risks involved with the overall proposition 
from RealSIPP and/or CIB given what L&C knew, or ought to have known, about RealSIPPs 
business model by the time it received Miss S application. 
Ive also carefully considered what L&Cs solicitors said regarding the level of knowledge 
that might be attributable to Miss S. Including what L&Cs said about Miss S, Firm A, and 
other entities she was a director of, in response to my provisional decision. 
The Companies House services website suggests these directorships were held after the 
transactions this complaint concerns. Miss S has previously explained that her role at Firm A 
didnt involve her giving any advice or information to others about pensions or investments, 
and Miss S response to a number of questions we put to her about Firm A and her work 
history were shared with L&C. On balance, and having carefully reconsidered everything, I 
remain satisfied that as at the date of the transactions complained about that Miss S wasnt 
a financially sophisticated retail client and that she wanted professional advice. 
CIB was a regulated firm with the necessary permissions to advise on the transactions this 
complaint concerns. And RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB. Im satisfied 
that in her dealings with it, Miss S trusted RealSIPP to act in her best interests. Miss S also 
then used the services of a regulated personal pension provider in L&C. 
So, overall, Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say 
L&C should compensate Miss S for the loss shes suffered. I dont think it would be fair to 
say in the circumstances that Miss S should suffer the loss because she ultimately instructed 
the transactions be effected.
Had L&C declined Miss S business from RealSIPP, would the transactions complained 
about still have been effected elsewhere?
L&Cs contended that Miss S would likely have proceeded with the transfer and investments 
regardless of the actions it took. L&Cs highlighted that other SIPP providers were accepting 
such investments at the time, and its most likely the transactions would have been effected 
with another provider.
L&Cs argued that another SIPP operator would have accepted Miss S application, had it 
declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that L&C shouldnt compensate 
Miss S for her loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would have made 
the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP 
provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and 
therefore wouldnt have accepted Miss S application from RealSIPP. 
L&Cs highlighted that Miss S later showed interest in a further esoteric investment in Global 
Forestry. Miss S didnt end up investing in that arrangement. And Im not satisfied that 
Miss S was so keen on the Llana Beach investments, or other esoteric investments, that 
shed have sought to submit her application to L&C, or any other provider, through a different 
regulated firm. Miss S has been clear that it was TRG, RealSIPP and CIB driving the transfer 
and that shed had no intention of transferring before their involvement. And also says that if 
the risks had been explained to her that she wouldnt have proceeded with the transactions. So, overall, I think its far more likely than not that if Miss S had approached another 
regulated advisory firm shed have been told in no uncertain terms that she should leave her 
DBS as it was, and I think its most likely that Miss S would have listened to that advice. 
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Im not satisfied that Miss S proceeded knowing that the investments she 
was making were high-risk and speculative, and that she was determined to move forward 
with the transactions in order to take advantage of a cash incentive.
Im not satisfied that Miss S understood she was making a high-risk investment. It appears 
Miss S understood that her pension monies were being moved into a little to no risk pension 
arrangement with guarantees. And Miss S says she was told that transferring and investing 
in Llana Beach would generate better returns than her DBS, and her children would get a 
lump sum if she died. 
Ive also not seen any evidence to show Miss S was paid a cash incentive. It therefore 
cannot be said she was incentivised to enter into the transaction. And, on balance, Im 
satisfied that Miss S, unlike Mr Adams, wasnt eager to complete the transaction for reasons 
other than securing the best pension for herself. So, in my opinion, this case is very different 
from that of Mr Adams. And having carefully considered all of the circumstances, Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if L&C had refused to accept Miss S 
application from RealSIPP, the transactions this complaint concerns wouldnt still have gone 
ahead.
So, overall, I do think its fair and reasonable to direct L&C to pay Miss S compensation in 
the circumstances. While I accept that TRG, RealSIPP and CIB might have some 
responsibility for initiating the course of action thats led to Miss S loss, I consider that L&C 
failed to comply with its own regulatory obligations and didnt put a stop to the transactions 
proceeding by declining Miss S application from RealSIPP when it had the opportunity to do 
so. And Im satisfied that Miss S wouldnt have established the SIPP, transferred monies in 
from her DBS or invested in Llana Beach if it hadnt been for L&Cs failings. 
In making these findings, Ive taken into account the potential contribution made by other 
parties to the losses suffered by Miss S  including RealSIPP and CIB. In my view, in 
considering what fair compensation looks like in this case, its reasonable to make an award 
against L&C that requires it to compensate Miss S for the full measure of her loss. RealSIPP 
was reliant on L&C to facilitate access to Miss S pension. And but for L&Cs failings, Im 
satisfied that Miss S pension transfer wouldnt have occurred in the first place.
As such, Im not asking L&C to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That 
other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which Im not 
able to determine. However, that fact shouldnt impact on Miss S right to fair compensation 
from L&C for the full amount of her loss.
In response to the provisional decision L&Cs highlighted that RealSIPP/CIB are no longer in 
existence. I accept that may be true. However, the key point here is that but for L&Cs 
failings, Miss S wouldnt have suffered the loss shes suffered. As a result, the 
trading/financial position of RealSIPP/CIB, and the fact that any assignment of any action 
against RealSIPP/CIB from Miss S to L&C might be worthless, doesnt lead me to change my overall view on this point. And, as such, I remain of the opinion that its appropriate and 
fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Miss S to the full extent of the financial 
losses shes suffered due to its failings, and notwithstanding any failings by RealSIPP/CIB.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think that in the circumstances of this case its 
fair and reasonable for me to conclude that L&C shouldnt have accepted Miss S application 
from RealSIPP. For the reasons Ive set out, I also think its fair to ask L&C to compensate 
Miss S for the loss shes suffered.
I say this having given careful consideration to the Adams v Options judgment but also 
bearing in mind that my role is to reach a decision thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case having taken account of all relevant considerations.
Putting things right
My aims to return Miss S to the position shed now be in but for what I consider to be L&Cs 
failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Miss S SIPP 
application.
L&C should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to the position 
Miss S would be in if shed not transferred from her DBS. In summary, L&C should:
1. Take ownership of the Llana Beach investments if possible.
2. Calculate and pay compensation for the loss Miss S pension provisions have 
suffered as a result of L&C accepting her application from RealSIPP. 
3. Pay Miss S £500 for the trouble and upset shes suffered.
In order to be fair to L&C, if it agrees to pay the calculated redress in full, it should then have 
the option of payment of the full calculated redress being contingent upon Miss S assigning 
any claim she may have against any other third party involved in the transactions this 
complaint concerns to L&C. L&C would need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
assignment.
I explain how L&C should carry out these steps in further detail below.
1. Take ownership of the Llana Beach investments if possible.
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the TRG 
investments need to be removed from Miss S SIPP. To do this, L&C should calculate 
an amount its willing to accept as a commercial value for Miss S TRG investments 
and pay that sum into Miss S SIPP and take ownership of the TRG investments. The 
sums paid into the SIPP to purchase the TRG investments will then make up part of 
the current actual value of the SIPP.
If L&Cs unwilling or unable to purchase the TRG investments, then the actual value 
of any TRG investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the 
purposes of the redress calculation. To be clear, this would include their being given 
a nil value for the purposes of ascertaining the current value of Miss S SIPP.
Provided Miss S is compensated in full then, if L&C doesnt purchase the TRG 
investments, it may ask Miss S to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from these investments. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Miss S may receive from the investments, and any eventual sums she would be able to 
access from the SIPP. L&C will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
If L&C doesnt take ownership of the TRG holdings, and they continue to be held in 
Miss S SIPP, therell then be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of the 
SIPP. Miss S wouldnt be responsible for those fees if L&C hadnt accepted her 
application from RealSIPP. So, I think its fair and reasonable for L&C to waive any 
SIPP fees until such time as Miss S can dispose of the TRG investments and close 
the SIPP.
2. Calculate and pay compensation for the loss Miss S pension provisions have 
suffered as a result of L&C accepting her application from RealSIPP. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for L&C to put Miss S, as far as possible, 
into the position shed now be in if it hadnt accepted her application from RealSIPP. 
As explained above, had this occurred then I consider its most likely Miss S would 
have remained in her DBS. L&C must therefore undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using 
the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with 
the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Miss S acceptance 
of the decision.
L&C may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Miss S contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS 
or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational 
scheme on Miss S SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible 
be paid into Miss S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension plan isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Miss S as a lump sum after making a 
notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Miss S likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed 
to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately 
reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Miss S within 90 days of 
the date L&C receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes L&C to pay Miss S.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual 
time taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  
and so any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest 
wont apply.
3. Pay Miss S £500 for the trouble and upset shes suffered.
In addition to the financial loss that Miss S has suffered as a result of the problems 
with her pension, I think that the loss of a significant portion of her pension provisions 
has caused Miss S distress. And I think that its fair for L&C to compensate her for 
this as well.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint against London & 
Colonial Services Limited.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and award: I require London & Colonial Services Limited to pay Miss S the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require London & 
Colonial Services Limited to pay Miss S any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require London & 
Colonial Services Limited to pay Miss S any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
London & Colonial Services Limited pays Miss S the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Miss S.
If Miss S accepts my decision, the award is binding on London & Colonial Services Limited. 
My recommendation is not part of my determination or award. London & Colonial Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Further, its unlikely that Miss S can accept 
my decision and go to Court to ask for the balance. Miss S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
If London & Colonial Services Limited agrees to pay the full calculated redress, and elects to 
take an assignment of rights before paying compensation, it must first provide a draft of the 
assignment to Miss S for her consideration and agreement. Any expenses incurred for the 
drafting of the assignment should be met by London & Colonial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Alex MannOmbudsman