DRN-3875579
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-led him when he applied for a further 
advance on his mortgage as they said he could borrow more than he could. Mr D also 
complains that Barclays caused delays by asking for an EWS1 form when it wasnt needed.
What happened
Mr D had a mortgage with Barclays, secured on his share of his shared ownership property. 
He wanted to apply for further borrowing to purchase an additional share in the property. He 
said that Barclays told him he could borrow £191,000  but then declined to offer this 
amount. 
Barclays considered Mr Ds application and instructed a valuer to inspect the property. The 
valuer said the propertys external walls may contain potentially combustible materials, so 
they wanted a satisfactory EWS1 form. 
An EWS1 form is a document produced by a qualified fire safety professional reporting on 
the state of a propertys external wall system. Its often produced where there are concerns 
that a building might have combustible cladding on its walls. 
Mr D said that an EWS1 form wasnt necessary, and he understands that one may be 
required if a block is more than 18 metres high  but his block wasnt. So he didnt 
understand why Barclays asked for this. 
He also provided an email from a housing services director who said that an EWS1 wasnt 
required for his block  so he thinks that Barclays have caused delays in asking for one. 
Barclays said they didnt decline Mr Ds application but needed the EWS1 form in order to 
proceed. They said they were entitled to rely on the valuers opinion to check that the 
property was suitable security for further lending. 
Barclays also said that they gave Mr D correct information regarding how much they could 
lend him based on the initial information they had, but it later came to light that Mr D had 
other financial commitments which impacted how much they could lend him. So they didnt 
think they had done anything wrong.
Mr D didnt agree so he brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Barclays assessed the amount 
they could lend Mr D fairly and she also agreed that Barclays could rely on the valuers 
opinion with regards to the EWS1.
Mr D disagreed. He said he was told an EWS1 form wasnt needed and feels he has been 
discriminated against by Barclays. He said that one of his neighbours managed to get a loan 
approved without the need for an EWS1. Mr D feels he was asked to provide something to 
Barclays which was not a legal requirement. 
As Mr D disagreed with the investigator, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has raised two issues he is unhappy about. The first one is regarding how much 
Barclays said they would lend him.
Ive listened to the telephone calls that Barclays had with Mr D when they were assessing 
his income in order to establish how much they were willing to lend him to purchase another 
share in his property. 
Barclays did tell Mr D that they would be able to lend him up to £191,000 so what he was 
told initially was correct. But during that same telephone conversation, it was established 
that Mr D had some significant credit card debt which impacted the amount that Barclays 
were willing to lend him. The adviser then explained to Mr D that, taking that into account, 
Barclays were only able to lend around £143,000 which wasnt enough for Mr D. 
Having listened to these calls, I am satisfied that Barclays assessed Mr Ds income fairly and 
didnt give him mis-leading information.
Ive now gone on to consider the issues that Mr D has raised with regards to the EWS1.
The EWS1 form was introduced in collaboration between government, the mortgage industry 
and the surveying industry following the Grenfell Tower tragedy. The fire at Grenfell Tower 
led to concerns across the country about the possibility of combustible cladding and other 
fire safety issues which might allow a fire to spread quickly through affected buildings.
The EWS1 process allows a qualified fire safety inspector to assess a buildings external 
wall system. The building will then be given a rating showing that there are no fire safety 
risks, that there are issues but the risk is low, or that there are issues which are high enough 
risk to require remedial work. Obtaining the EWS1 form is the responsibility of the building 
owner/management company and not individual leaseholders because the form covers the 
whole building.
The EWS1 process was designed, among other things, to give mortgage lenders enough 
information to decide whether a building presented a particular fire safety risk. Lenders will 
therefore only lend where the property is subject to the property being good security for the 
loan  and if there is a fire safety risk, it might not be good security. Thats because theres a 
higher risk of damage to the property, and also a greater likelihood that it wont be able to be 
sold if it needed to be. 
General guidance to surveyors and valuers from their professional body at the time was that 
an EWS1 will be required where there are potential cladding or other issues, and the building 
is six storeys or higher. And that EWS1 may be required for smaller buildings too, if there are 
grounds for considering theres a risk that needs to be assessed.
In common with other lenders, Barclays took these issues into account in setting their 
lending criteria for lending mortgages on properties in blocks of flats and similar buildings. 
Barclays lending criteria states that a surveyor is to assess the building in line with 
directions given by Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) guidance in determining 
the risks posed by the cladding attachments to a building. Where its deemed necessary, the 
surveyor will require the production of an EWS1 certificate.
Mr D applied for further borrowing and Barclays instructed a surveyor to value the property. 
The surveyor said specifically in the valuation report that the external wall system of the 
property may contain potentially combustible materials and they required a satisfactory 
EWS1 cladding paperwork and covering letter for further review. 
It was reasonable for Barclays to rely on the opinion of a qualified surveyor. They are an 
expert in assessing and valuing buildings in order to decide if Mr Ds property was good security. The valuer needed to check if there were any combustible materials that could 
affect the property. 
Mr D says that he was told that an EWS1 wasnt needed because the building was below 18 
metres high.  But the guidance to surveyors is that an EWS1 can be required even for 
smaller buildings  like this one  if there are grounds for thinking there may be a potential 
risk. 
I also acknowledge that Mr D said that his neighbour in the same block managed to get a 
mortgage approved. However, as Ive already stated, Barclays didnt do anything wrong in 
relying on the information given to them by the surveyor. Sometimes different surveyors 
conduct valuations for each property and reach different opinions  but this doesnt mean 
Barclays were unfair on relying on what they were told by the surveyor. Even though the 
building owner didnt agree that one was needed for the block, an individual surveyor may 
form a different view. And its reasonable for Barclays to rely on the opinion of the surveyor. 
I understand that Mr D would have found this frustrating because he didnt think that an 
EWS1 was needed but the valuer said one was needed  so Barclays wouldnt proceed 
without getting one. I understand that Mr D wasnt able to obtain the EWS1 and proceeded 
to remortgage to another lender  but this doesnt mean that Barclays did anything wrong.
Ive noted that Mr D said he feels discriminated against by Barclays. Its not for me to make a 
formal finding of discrimination contrary to the Equality Act  thats a matter for the courts. 
But having taken the law into account and considered all the evidence, I havent seen any 
evidence that Barclays made an unfair decision based on Mr Ds characteristics. Barclays 
made a decision based on their lending criteria and based on what they were told by the 
surveyor  not because of a specific characteristic relating to Mr D. 
Overall, I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably here. They dont have to grant mortgage 
applications if they cannot satisfy themselves that the property is suitable security  which 
includes factoring in fire safety risks. That includes increasing the borrowing where there is 
already a mortgage in place. Some lenders have lower risk appetites than others and thats 
not unreasonable either. Barclays accepted the opinion of a qualified surveyor that an EWS1 
was needed before they could be sure the property was acceptable, and that wasnt an 
unfair position to take. 
I appreciate that Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, but I am satisfied that Barclays 
have acted fairly and reasonably in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 Maria Drury
Ombudsman