DRN-3330417
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund transactions she disputes 
making.
Mrs Js complaint was brought on her behalf by a representative. 
What happened
Mrs Js representative raised a complaint with Lloyds about four transactions, which she 
says Mrs J didnt make.
The details of those transactions are as follows. The transactions in bold are the disputed 
transactions, the other transactions are included as they give wider context around 
undisputed transactions made with the same card. 
Date Time Transaction details Amount
16.6.2020 16:25 Card purchase £92.72
17.6.2020 10:39
10:42Balance enquiry
Cash withdrawal £400
20.6.2020 15:19 Card purchase £42.16
29.6.2020 11:31
11:34Balance enquiry
Cash withdrawal £400
4.7.2020 12:16 Card purchase  - contactless £10
4.7.2020 14:17 Card purchase £14.10
14.7.2020 10:59 Cash withdrawal £400
Lloyds reviewed Mrs Js fraud complaint and declined to refund her. Lloyds said they 
couldnt see how someone had accessed Mrs Js card and her PIN in order to make the 
transactions, so they are holding Mrs J liable.
Mrs J wasnt happy with their response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Js complaint. As part of their investigation they talked to  
Mrs Js representative and asked about who had access to Mrs Js card.
The representative said no one else has access to the property that Mrs J shares with her 
sister. She told us the card is usually kept in Mrs Js handbag, and that the only person who 
has access to the card and the PIN besides Mrs J is herself (the representative). She is 
given the card to make purchases for Mrs J including groceries etc, but that she is given the 
card and returns it after each time she uses it. She said that often she withdraws cash and 
brings back the receipt and change to Mrs J. The representative says the PIN isnt written 
down and doesnt know how someone else would know what the PIN is. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. In summary they thought it was most likely 
that the transactions were completed by someone Mrs J authorised to use her card.
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigators opinion, saying:
Only three parties had access to the card and the PIN - Mrs J, her sister and the 
representative.
The time of the transactions the representative was at work so couldnt have 
completed them.
Mrs J and her sister were housebound at the time of the transactions due to ill health 
and Covid restrictions, so couldnt have made the transactions.
Maybe the money was taken from Mrs Js bank accounts by mistake, by someone not 
using her card and PIN.
As Mrs J didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the complaint, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for 
the same reasons. 
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mrs J liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. Lloyds has provided 
evidence that Mrs Js genuine card was used to make the chip and PIN transactions. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold 
her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely 
than not that Mrs J consented to the transactions being made.
I appreciate that Mrs J and her representative are adamant that they didnt carry out these 
transactions, however theyve also told us that no one else had access to the property or to 
the card  which was kept in Mrs Js purse. And theyve said that the PIN wasnt written 
down. 
Mrs J suggested that the money mightve been accidentally removed from her account in 
error. But the evidence provided by Lloyds shows that Mrs Js genuine card and PIN were 
used for these transactions and that the chip in the card was read. So, Im satisfied that 
these transactions were carried out by someone using Mrs Js card and were genuine 
transactions made on her account.  
Having reviewed Mrs Js account statement, I can see there were other transactions made 
with the same card before and after the disputed transactions. This meant someone using it 
without her consent, had to take the card without her knowledge and return it without her 
knowledge.  Importantly on the 4 July 2020, the disputed transaction happened at just after 
midday, but the next genuine transaction was completed around 2 hours later. So, the card 
had to be taken and returned to Mrs J in that two hour window in order for it to be used for 
the following genuine transaction  without Mrs J noticing. 
Also, the evidence shows there werent any failed PIN attempts, so the person using the 
card had to either know the PIN or guess it correctly the first time they entered it. And neither 
Mrs J nor her representative have been able to explain how someone wouldve known what 
the PIN was.Its also worth noting that balance enquiries were done for at least the first two cash 
withdrawals. This means the person using the card wouldve known that the balance in the 
account was around £3,000.  Usually where a fraudster takes a card, they will use it as many 
times as possible in as short a time as possible and for the maximum they can withdraw. 
They do this because they dont know when the card holder will notice their card is missing 
and stop it or notice the unexpected transactions on their account. And, both withdrawals 
were made for less than the daily ATM withdrawal limit  so more funds couldve been 
withdrawn.  
The representative raised a point about whether Mrs Js card couldve been cloned. 
However, there is no evidence to suggest that happened in this case and I dont consider it 
the most likely explanation as to what happened. Cards can be cloned by fraudsters copying 
the magnetic stripe on the back of cards, but I havent seen any evidence of the embedded 
chip being read and the encrypted PIN information being obtained from the chip.
I appreciate the strength of conviction that Mrs J and her representative have that Mrs J 
didnt authorise these transactions, and I think its most likely that Mrs J didnt carry out the 
transactions herself. However, giving her card and PIN to someone to use, gives them the 
authority to transact on her account. And I think this is most likely what has happened here. 
Because based on what Mrs J and her representative have told us, Im unable to see how a 
third party couldve taken and replaced Mrs Js card on four separate occasions without   
Mrs Js knowledge. And there is no explanation for how they wouldve known what her PIN 
was in order to use the card, unless shed given it to them. 
I realise that Mrs J is going to be very disappointed, but I think its most likely Mrs J gave 
authority to someone else to use her card and PIN, and they completed these transactions. 
Based on that, Im satisfied that Mrs J has authorised the transactions and therefore I cant 
fairly ask Lloyds to refund her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman