DRN-1952476
The complaint
Mr H complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined claims he made 
under his pet insurance policy when his dog was taken ill and sadly passed away.
What happened 
For clarity, throughout my decision when I refer to Great Lakes, this also includes any 
actions undertaken by its agents. 
In late April 2019, Mr H purchased a pet insurance policy with Great Lakes. In early May 
2019, Mr Hs dog fell ill. Mr H took his dog to the vet for an initial consultation - and a follow 
up appointment the next day. 
 Mr Hs dog remained unwell and had to undergo surgery, sadly passing away a few days 
later. So, Mr H claimed under his pet insurance policy for the treatment his dog had 
received. 
Mr H said the claim was initially accepted by Great Lakes, but the claim was subsequently 
declined as the treatment had occurred within 14 days of the policy start date. 
Mr H thought this was unfair as he wasnt aware of the 14-day exclusion. He said he found 
purchasing the insurance policy confusing and said he hadnt been sure of the date when 
the cover began. 
In Great Lakes response they said the policy was purchased online. And  that Mr H couldnt 
have reached the payment stage without having agreed to the 14-day waiting period. Great 
Lakes went on to say that owing to the nature of the claim, the claim was initially registered 
and reviewed before being declined.
As he didnt agree with Great Lakes response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigators view was that Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. The investigator 
noted the terms and conditions of the policy were clear that any treatment for illness was 
excluded for the first 14 days, so Mr Hs claim was correctly declined. 
As Mr H remained unhappy, his complaint was referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I recognise that Mr H has strong feelings about these matters and has provided a lot of 
information in support of his complaint. Whilst I dont intend to respond in similar detail, I 
want to assure Mr H Ive read everything carefully and taken it into consideration when 
coming to my decision. My role is to identify and comment on what I consider to be the 
central issues. So, if I dont mention any particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because 
I havent seen or thought about it. Rather, I dont think it necessary to reference it to explain 
my decision. I hope Mr H wont take this as a discourtesy. Its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Hs insurance policy which can be found in 
the pet insurance policy booklet. The general exclusions are listed in Section 3  including 
the waiting periods after a policy is purchased. 
 We are not able to pay a claim for any accident that occurs or is treated within the first 48 
hours of the policy. We are not able to pay a claim if your pet passes away in the first 14 
days due to illness. We are not able to pay claims for any vets fees incurred within 14 days 
of the policy.
The policy doesnt cover illness or death for the first 14 days from the policy start date. Mr 
Hs dogs treatment and passing all occurred within 12 days of the policy start date. So Im 
satisfied Great Lakes acted fairly by relying on the 14-day exclusions when declining Mr Hs 
claim.   
 
Mr H says this shouldnt apply to him because it wasnt made clear, and he didnt realise he 
wasnt covered for this period.
Mr H purchased the policy online, so the onus was on him to review the information 
provided, to see that the policy met his needs before he agreed to buy. He wouldve been 
taken to a page of declarations which must be agreed to before the policy can be purchased. 
Having considered a screen shot from the online journey provided by Great Lakes, Im 
satisfied the 14-day exclusions were clearly explained and prominently displayed near the 
top of the declarations. And that they  must have been agreed by Mr H before completing the 
purchase. 
Mr H said Great Lakes initially accepted the claim, so he thought it was unfair when the 
claim was subsequently declined. From the claim notes I can see Great Lakes initially 
registered the claim to be investigated and assessed. And a possible exclusion was noted as 
the circumstances of Mr Hs dogs illness were unclear at the time. While I appreciate  Mr Hs 
disappointment when the claim was declined, I think Great Lakes were right to register the 
claim as they did while the full circumstances were established. 
I can imagine how upsetting it was for Mr H and his family when their family pet passed 
away so suddenly. But Im satisfied it was reasonable for Great Lakes Insurance SE to rely 
on the 14-day exclusion period to decline Mr Hs claims. 
My final decision
I understand my decision will be disappointing for Mr H, but for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman