DRN-1011916
Complaint
Mr H complains about errors made by Virgin Money Plc when he changed his address in 
branch. 
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2019. I explained that I was 
intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Background
Mr H has complained about the level of service hes received from Virgin Money on 
several occasions since attempting to change his address in branch. 
When he first went into the branch to change his address, the staff member didnt 
obtain Mr Hs signature which was needed to complete the address change. 
Virgin Money sent out a form he could sign and return, but Mr H went back to the 
branch. He says this is because he wanted his new card before Christmas and didnt 
think post would be quick enough.
The following day Mr Hs debit card was swallowed by an ATM when he checked his 
balance. He raised this with Virgin Money and it advised another mistake had been 
made - the card had been reordered as lost rather than as a replacement. Virgin 
Money apologised and initially offered Mr H £25 to reflect this. But when it wrote to him 
it had increased the amount to £50. 
Mr H then received a replacement card with a letter saying his PIN remained the same 
 but it didnt and he needed to order a new one. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. He was unhappy that there had been so 
many errors and highlighted that he was still without a useable card as he had no PIN. 
He said this meant he couldnt use the account as he was unable to deposit cash in 
his local post office without a PIN  and his nearest cash branch is 35 miles away. 
While the complaint was with our service, our investigator told Virgin Money that Mr H 
was still without his PIN. Mr H contacted us several times to let us know this hadnt 
changed, and eventually told us he needed to move some direct debits and SORN his 
vehicle as he was unable to deposit money into the account. Virgin Money said it 
needed Mr H to contact it to reorder his PIN. When he did get in touch with Virgin 
Money, it sent him a new one which he received.
In her assessment our investigator said all parties agree that something went wrong. 
But she didnt think the compensation Virgin Money paid Mr H was sufficient to 
recognise the level of trouble and upset he experienced. She suggested it should 
increase the amount to £150. Virgin Money didnt agree. It said Mr H neednt have made the second trip to the 
branch as he couldve posted his signature. It said it sent a new PIN to Mr H in 
December 2018 and didnt hear from him again until February 2019 when it resent it. It 
said its records dont show that he cancelled any direct debits and that he couldve 
used his other account to pay his car tax, rather than SORN his car. It said it would 
increase its offer to a maximum of £100.
Because no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in 
light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those 
issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my provisional 
decision.
Both Mr H and Virgin Money agree that errors have occurred and that Mr H has been 
impacted by them. The issue I need to decide here is what should be done by Virgin 
Money to put things right taking into account all of the circumstances. 
Mr H has explained that he was significantly inconvenienced as a result of Virgin 
Moneys errors. The main issues he experienced were that:
he didnt have account access over Christmas; 
he had to travel if he wanted to deposit money into the account; and
he had to change his direct debits and SORN his car.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr H has said and provided. But taking all of 
the circumstances into account, Im currently minded to say that the £100 Virgin 
Money has now offered is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why below.
Account access over Christmas
I appreciate that Mr H may have preferred to retain use of his Virgin Money account 
over Christmas, and I accept he didnt have it due to Virgin Moneys errors. But from 
what Ive seen, Mr Hs Virgin Money account doesnt appear to be his main account. I 
say this because there was no income being paid into it, aside from cash deposits, 
and it seems to have generally been used to pay some direct debits and make 
occasional small value food and fuel purchases. 
I can understand Mr Hs frustration at being without access to his Virgin Money 
account over Christmas. But from what Ive seen he still had use of, and access to, at 
least one other account. Ive taken this into account when coming to my provisional 
decision.
Changing direct debits and declaring his car as SORNIn setting up new direct debits Im assuming Mr H spoke with his other bank. As I 
understand it his other bank couldve switched all of the direct debits, including his car 
tax, using the direct debit switching service. This couldve prevented the need for 
declaring Mr Hs car as SORN. And from what Ive seen, the gov.uk website for 
changing your car tax payments explains this as an option.
Alternatively, Mr H couldve funded his Virgin Money account in a number of ways 
without needing to drive to the nearest cash branch. He couldve deposited cash in his 
other bank account  which I understand has branches much closer to his home  and 
asked them to transfer money for him. Or he could have used online banking to 
complete a transfer of funds. These options wouldve meant he didnt need to change 
his direct debits at all. 
I appreciate taking any of these actions wouldve still been frustrating, but I think the 
level of inconvenience wouldve been substantially less than Mr H actually 
experienced when he set up all new direct debits and declared his car as SORN.
Summary
I accept Virgin Money made errors and that the errors led to frustration and 
inconvenience on Mr Hs part. And I agree that Virgin Money needs to compensate Mr 
H for this. But I think the level of frustration and inconvenience Mr H experienced was 
exacerbated by some of the decisions he made. So I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Virgin Money fully responsible for this.
Ultimately Virgin Money made several mistakes when carrying out what shouldve 
been simple actions on Mr Hs account. This left Mr H without full access to his 
account for around two months. So taking everything that happened into account I 
think £100 is fair compensation to reflect the trouble and upset Virgin Moneys errors 
caused Mr H in this particular matter.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and to recommend that 
Virgin Money should pay him £100 to recognise the trouble and upset its errors caused him. 
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision.
Virgin Money responded to say that it had no further comments or evidence it wanted to 
provide. Mr H responded to say he was disappointed with the conclusions Id reached. But 
he also confirmed he didnt have any further comments or evidence for me to consider.
As both sides have provided their responses, Im moving forward with my final decision.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence and arguments already sent to us to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand Mr Hs disappointment and I sympathise. I agree that he has suffered trouble 
and upset due to Virgin Moneys errors. But I also think that the level of trouble and upset he 
experienced was exacerbated by some of the decisions he made. 
Taking all the circumstances into account, alongside our services published guidance on 
awards for trouble and upset, I think compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint against Virgin Money Plc in part and to direct it to pay Mr H a total amount of £100 
as compensation for trouble and upset experienced in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2019.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman