DRN-3868975
The complaint
Ms H complains about U K Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim under her home 
insurance.
What happened
Ms H has home insurance underwritten by UKI, which covers her property and its contents, 
amongst other things. She made a claim after the ceiling in her kitchen began to collapse.
Ms H believed the damage was caused by an escape of water and so should be covered 
under the terms of the policy. 
UKI carried out an inspection and found no evidence of an escape of water. Their inspector 
said the design and build of that part of Ms Hs house was faulty. 
In essence, she said the floor above the kitchen was supported on beams which themselves 
rested on timbers attached to an ageing brick wall. She said the timbers had become 
detached from the wall over time and so the ceiling was bowing and collapsing due to the 
weight from the room above.
She said that kind of construction may have been suitable for a false ceiling but not in 
circumstances where the floor above was intended to support any weight.
Ms H was unhappy that the claim was declined and made a complaint to UKI. She was also 
unhappy that damage was caused by her builder when he tried to trace and access the 
supposed water leak and she wanted UKI to pay for repair of that damage.
UKI said the service they provided to Ms H wasnt of the standard theyd expect. There were 
some delays - and communication with Ms H wasnt as good as it could have been. They 
paid Ms H £50 in compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused. But they 
maintained that their decision to decline the claim was correct.
Ms H wasnt happy with UKIs response, so she brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think UKI had done anything wrong.
Ms H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case that Ms Hs policy covers her for damage caused by escapes 
of water. But it doesnt cover her if the workmanship or design in the construction of the 
house is faulty. And it doesnt cover gradual deterioration over time.
This is clear in the policy terms. And its usual for home insurance policies to contain terms 
like this. 
Broadly, home or buildings insurance policies will cover unforeseen events or accidents. 
Theyre not intended to cover replacement or repair of things that grow old and lose their 
effectiveness - or parts of buildings that are built or designed badly. Thats neither unfair nor 
unreasonable.
In making a claim, its for the policyholder to show that they have suffered some loss or 
damage due to an insured event or peril.
Ms Hs builder suspected that the damage to her kitchen ceiling was caused by an escape of 
water  which is an insured event. 
UKIs assessor disagreed. Not only did she find no evidence of any escape of water, but she 
cogently and reasonably explained the cause of the damage. UKI are entitled to rely on that 
expert opinion unless and until there is persuasive evidence to the contrary.
Ms H asked a builder to trace the supposed leak. Theres no evidence at all that any leak 
was found. 
If Ms H has such evidence  or if she has (now or in future) an expert report to suggest the 
fault is not in the design and build of the house  then Id expect UKI to consider that 
evidence and look again at the claim.
But as things stand, given the information available to them at present, I cant justifiably 
conclude that theres anything unfair or unreasonable in UKIs decision to decline Ms Hs 
claim.
Ill turn now to the damage caused when the builder tried to trace the supposed escape of 
water. 
The policy covers the cost of repairs in these circumstances if a leak of water or oil is 
discovered. In this case, there was no leak and so there is no cover under the policy.
If I were persuaded that UKI had told Ms H that she had to commission the trace and access 
work, I might take a different view. But in this case, it was Ms H and her builder who 
suggested that there had been an escape of water, not UKI.
It was perfectly reasonable for UKI to advise Ms H to find out what the cause of the damage 
was if she didnt agree with their experts view. And to tell her that if she wanted them to 
cover the damage, shed have to demonstrate that it was caused by an insured event  an 
escape of water, for example.
Theres no suggestion that at that point, UKI had told Ms H that any damage caused by the 
attempt to trace the supposed leak was going to be covered by her policy.  
Its also worth bearing in mind that the damage caused by the attempt to trace the supposed 
leak are to parts of the building that will need to be repaired or replaced in any case. And 
that Ms H would have always needed to get this work done in order to assess the repairs 
that need to be carried out.
Ms H objected to the manner in which the inspection of her home was carried out and to 
some delays in UKIs response to her claim. UKI paid £50 in compensation for her trouble 
and upset and I think that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I have no doubt this has been an awful, stressful experience for Ms H. But I have to bear in 
mind that UKI arent responsible for the collapse of the ceiling. And £50 is, in my view, fair and reasonable compensation for the relatively minor additional trouble and upset Ms H has 
been caused by any faults in UKIs handling of the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman