DRN-3983785
The complaint
Miss E complains that Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited (Saxo):
- unfairly applied client custody fees to her account after it was transferred to Saxo in 
August 2017;
-  failed to provide her with a copy of the terms and conditions that applied to her 
account; and
- incorrectly withheld tax on dividend payments she received. 
To put matters right, Miss E wants Saxo to refund the client custody fees it has applied to 
her account, refund the withheld tax, and refund the interest it applied to her account when 
the cash account became overdrawn as a result of the fees it had applied.
What happened
I understand that in mid-2017 Miss Es previous stockbroker contacted her to say that unless 
she closed her account, or moved it to another provider it would be transferred to Saxo. 
Records that have been provided to this service show that Miss E was provided with a link to 
Saxos General Business Terms and she accepted these terms on 19 September 2017. 
Miss E says that in July 2022, she logged onto her account and placed a trade to sell shares 
she held on Saxos platform. Miss E says she didnt realise the sell order had been executed 
as she didnt receive a contract note but did receive a message setting out that Saxo 
required additional information for compliance purposes.
Miss E says she uploaded the required information by late August 2022. Having done so she 
says she then checked what was going on with my account generally. Miss E says she then 
noted that the trade she had placed in July 2022 had been executed. She said she also 
noted that Saxo had been taking a monthly client custody fee from her account and had 
incorrectly withheld tax on dividend payments she had received.
Miss E complained to Saxo. She said she hadnt agreed to its terms and conditions and, due 
to serious ill-health, had not previously been aware that it was applying custody fees to her 
account. 
Saxo did not uphold Miss Es complaint. It noted that she had accepted its General Terms of 
Business in September 2017. It provided Miss E with another link to its General Terms of 
Business and to its fees and charges schedule that set out its custody fees.
Miss E was not satisfied with Saxos response and referred her complaint to this service.
Having carefully considered Miss Es complaint our investigator said she didnt think Saxo 
had acted incorrectly or treated Miss E unfairly.
She said she was satisfied that Saxo had provided Miss E with its General Terms of 
Business and she noted that Miss E had accepted these on 19 September 2017. She noted 
that these terms set out that Miss E was required to pay fees and charges, and these were 
set out in Saxos Commissions, Charges & Margin Schedule. 
She also explained that the tax Miss E felt Saxo had incorrectly deducted was a withholding 
tax and had been correctly withheld, as the shares Miss E held were in an overseas 
company.
She noted that Miss E had explained that she had been very unwell. As Miss E had not 
made Saxo aware of this at the time, she said it couldnt reasonably have been expected to 
take this into account when Miss Es account was moved to Saxo.
Miss E did not accept our investigators view. She asked for a copy of the evidence our 
investigator relied on and said she wanted to make further submissions to this service. This 
service has not received any further submissions from Miss E.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss E has not made any further submissions to this service, I have reviewed all the 
information provided in connection with this complaint. Having done so I cannot reasonably 
uphold Miss Es complaint as I dont think Saxo has acted incorrectly in this matter. Ill 
explain why.
The information I have seen shows that Miss E accepted Saxos General Business Terms on 
19 September 2017. As this is the case, I cannot reasonably find that Miss Es recollection 
that Saxo failed to provide her with a copy of the terms and conditions that applied to her 
account is correct, as a link to the terms was provided to Miss E when she accepted Saxos 
General Business Terms. 
I note that the General Business Terms set out:
24.1 The Client shall be obliged to pay to Saxo Bank the Commissions and Charges set out 
in the Commissions, Charges & Margin Schedule. The Commissions, Charges & Margin 
Schedule is available on Saxo Bank's website, www.home.saxo, and may be supplied to the 
Client on demand.
I am also mindful that Saxos Commissions, Charges & Margin Schedule set out, under the 
heading, Custody Fee:
A fee of 0.12% p.a. is charged on accounts with open Bond, Stock and ETF/ETC positions, 
with a minimum monthly fee of EUR 5 (or account currency equivalent). Fees are calculated 
daily but debited on a monthly basis. For more information about the custody fee, read these 
FAQs.
As the custody fee was disclosed to Miss E and she accepted Saxos General Business 
Terms, I cannot reasonably require it to refund the custody fees it has applied to her 
account.
I note Miss E has also said she feel Saxo should refund the interest it applied when her cash 
account became overdrawn because of the fees it had applied. But again, I must take into 
account that in Saxos FAQs it set out:Please note that the fee can take your accounts cash balance into a negative that will be 
subject to the negative net free equity interest charge (please see Interest Rates clause).
I appreciate that Miss E has been very unwell. But as she accepted Saxos General 
Business Terms in September 2017 and did not notify it until August 2022 that she had been 
unwell I cant reasonably find that it has acted incorrectly in applying the custody fees as set 
out in its Commissions, Charges & Margin Schedule or charging interest when her cash 
account became overdrawn.
Regarding the tax that was withheld on the dividends Miss E received, this was not in 
respect of any income tax that might be due on her dividend income. As our investigator set 
out, this was a withholding tax as the dividends paid were in respect of an overseas 
company. I therefore cannot reasonably require Saxo to refund this money to Miss E.
I do understand that this is not the decision Miss E was hoping for, but I cannot reasonably 
find that Saxo has acted incorrectly in this matter. 
It is very unfortunate if Miss E agreed to Saxos General Business Terms without reviewing 
them in detail or asking for assistance if she was too unwell to fully review them, but I cant 
reasonably hold Saxo responsible for this. As neither Miss E, nor a representative acting on 
her behalf told Saxo that she was very unwell, I cannot safely find that it should have made 
reasonable adjustments to assist her.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman