DRN-3754696
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim he made 
for storm damage under his home buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr S arranged for a structural engineer to inspect damage to his property 
possibly caused by movement. The structural engineer identified that cracks appearing in 
the property were caused by the gradual bowing of a flank masonry wall. 
The structural engineer contacted Aviva on Mr Ss behalf and asked what the process was. 
Aviva said without evidence an insured peril was the cause of the damage, it couldnt 
consider a claim under the policy. It also referred to exclusions under the policy for wear and 
tear, gradual damage or maintenance issues. 
Mr S complained to Aviva, but in December 2021 Aviva said its decision not to meet a claim 
was correct. So Mr S asked us to look at things for him.
Our Investigator explained that as there was no evidence of an insured peril, Avivas 
decision wasnt unreasonable and so didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies provide cover for specific insured perils such as fire, flood, subsidence or 
storm. They dont provide cover for every eventuality. Mr Ss policy isnt a warranty cover 
policy and so - in line with most (if not all) standard buildings insurance policies - Aviva 
provides indemnity where a sudden unforeseen event covered under the policy has 
occurred. 
The structural engineer who visited Mr Ss property reported the following:
This structural damage is common with this type of construction where the first floor 
joists span parallel to the wall and lateral restraint of the flank wall is dependent 
purely on the bond to the perpendicular internal walls. It is a mode of failure that 
could not have been foreseen nor prevented through maintenance. In our opinion it 
therefore does not constitute 'a 'wear and tear' defect.
Mr Ss structural engineer said the damage to his property may have been caused by a 
storm. They said there were no signs of cracking externally but mortar in places was in poor 
condition. 
When Mr S reported the damage to Aviva, there was no evidence of storm conditions 
occurring at that time.
From the description of the damage, I dont think its relevant as to whether the cause of 
damage falls under Avivas exclusions - such as wear and tear. The fact is there is no 
evidence to show the cause of damage was due to any insured event that is covered under 
the policy. So I dont think Avivas decision to decline Mr Ss claim was unreasonable.
I understand Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not upholding 
his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman