DRN-3566621
The complaint
Mr G brings this complaint as joint executor of the estate of his mother, Mrs G. The 
complaint is about irresponsible lending by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited in relation to 
an equity release mortgage taken out by Mrs G.
To settle the complaint the executors want the estate to be compensated with full 
reimbursement, if not from the point of first drawdown, then from the point if, where Mrs Gs 
family had been aware of it, they could have exercised their Power of Attorney. At the very 
least, the estate wants the cancellation of interest and charges on the loan.
For the sake of clarity, I will refer to Mr G throughout, even where I am referring to him 
and/or his brother.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 24 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mrs G or Mr G being identified.
In October 2015 Mrs G took out an equity release mortgage after receiving advice from an 
independent financial adviser and after taking independent legal advice. The initial 
drawdown was for £40,000, with a £46,250 reserve which Mrs G could draw down at any 
time. Between 16 March 2016 and 16 May 2019 there were six further drawdowns, utilising 
the full reserve of £46,250. 
On 31 May 2016 Mrs G executed a Lasting Power of Attorney appointing her two sons as 
attorneys. This was registered with the Office of the Public Guardian (as required), but I 
understand it was not exercised until shortly before Mrs G passed away in early 2021. 
Prior to Mrs Gs death, Mr G contacted Aviva expressing his concerns about the mortgage. 
They were aware Mrs G had taken out an equity release mortgage, but hadnt been aware of 
the amount shed borrowed. Specifically, Mr G was concerned at the lack of questioning 
when Mrs G was making drawdown requests. He thought it would have been prudent for 
Aviva to verify the quotes for the work, and to make further enquiries, particularly as his 
brother deals in some of the types of work Mrs G was having done.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, saying that it wasnt under any obligation to review a 
customers request for a drawdown. Aviva conceded that, listening to the calls one after the 
other as Aviva had done when looking at the complaint, it might give rise to concern due to 
potential duplication of the work Mrs G said was needed. But as these calls took place 
several months apart, there wasnt any reason at the time the calls took place for Aviva to be 
concerned.
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, the complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service in October 2020. I am sorry to note that Mrs G passed away in early 2021 and so 
the complaint was brought on behalf of the estate.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Aviva had done anything 
wrong. In a very detailed letter dated 24 June 2022 he went through all the telephone calls 
Mrs G had with Aviva. Although he thought Aviva could have asked some more questions in 
relation to the last three drawdowns, overall he didnt think this affected the outcome. This 
was particularly so because there was no evidence  as alleged by Mr G  that Mrs G was 
the victim of rogue builders. He was also not persuaded that Mrs Gs bank records 
supported Mr Gs contention that these rogue builders had been paid large sums of money 
in cash.
In response to further points made by Mr G, the investigator explained that he wasnt 
persuaded Mrs G was vulnerable. She lived alone, managed her own bank account and was 
able to have conversations with Aviva where it was clear she understood how the mortgage 
worked, about interest rates and drawdowns.
Mr G still didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, I wont set out all the details of the complaint, but I confirm Ive read 
everything and listened to all the calls. There is no need for me to repeat what the 
investigator has already detailed about what was discussed during those calls. 
Aviva wasnt responsible for Mrs G taking out the mortgage or for the first £40,000 
drawdown, as this was on the advice of an independent financial adviser. I will make no 
further comment about that, as a complaint about the adviser has been the subject of a final 
decision by another ombudsman.
After listening to the calls, Im not persuaded Aviva should not have released the funds 
Mrs G was asking for. There were several months between each call, and Mrs G had 
plausible reasons for wanting the funds. The evidence of where those funds were disbursed 
does not suggest Mrs G was paying large sums in cash to rogue builders. 
I think that even if Aviva had asked Mrs G further questions, this would not have affected the 
outcome. Its not Avivas role to police its customers spending, particularly where, as in this 
case, Mrs G gave valid reasons for wanting the funds. Nor is Aviva required to ask for 
invoices or speak to third parties about what Mrs G wanted to do. Aviva also could not have 
known that one of Mrs Gs sons had experience in a particular area of work.
I agree there was some duplication where Mrs G had asked for funds to have a boiler 
replaced and then several months later asked for a further drawdown to have a new heating 
system. However, that in itself doesnt suggest Mrs G was being scammed or pressurised 
by third parties. Mrs G had already told Aviva she was having extensive renovation done on 
her property, and so it is not unusual for budgets to overrun. I dont find that this should have 
been a red flag that ought to have led to Aviva putting a halt on Mrs Gs draw down of funds 
at that time.There is nothing in the calls to lead me to conclude that Mrs G lacked mental capacity; 
indeed, in his letter of complaint to Aviva sent in August 2020, Mr G says that it wasnt until 
lockdown (March 2020) that Mrs G first started to show signs of early onset dementia.
Mr G said on the complaint form that he wanted Aviva to pay compensation from the point 
when, if the family had known what was happening, they would have exercised the Power of 
Attorney. However, if Mrs Gs family werent aware of what was happening with her finances, 
thats not something for which I can hold Aviva responsible. 
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded Aviva acted recklessly or irresponsibly in 
allowing Mrs G to draw down the funds she requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
G to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman