DRN-4051826
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Zurich Insurance PLC handled and settled a claim for damage to 
his property following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr N owns a leasehold property that he rents out. This property is covered by a block 
insurance policy provided by Zurich. This policy was taken out by the freeholder of Mr Ns 
property.
On 4 January 2021, Mr N discovered that water was escaping from the property above into 
his, which caused damage. Zurich said the damage was reported to it on 15 February 2021. 
It said it asked Mr N to make contact over the telephone to discuss the claim, but he wasnt 
willing to do so and asked to communicate only in writing. Zurich explained the same claim 
was reported to it, on 17 February 2021. It said this led to two claims being opened. 
After the claim was reported, Zurich appointed a contractor to assist it in overseeing the 
claim. An agent attended Mr Ns rental property on 15 February to scope out the necessary 
remedial work. 
In June 2021, Mr N advised Zurich that further damage had occurred and requested an 
adjustment of the scope of remedial work as a result. Zurich said its agents attempted to 
contact Mr N but experienced difficulties in doing so. 
In October 2021, Zurich said it received an updated scope from its agent. It authorised them 
to either proceed with the reinstatement work or cash settle. But Mr N didnt believe the 
settlement was fair or reasonable. He instructed the agent to undertake the work Zurich had 
authorised. And complained to Zurich about how it had handled his claim.
Mr N thought his claim had been handled in a disorganised manner. He stated that there 
were delays in his rental property being reinstated due to a duplication of claims at the outset 
and poor communication. And he said the builders Zurich appointed undertook substandard 
work and caused more damage. 
Mr N stated that, during the period that reinstatement work was being undertaken, he was 
losing rental income and that his loss was aggravated by the quality of workmanship and 
delays in his claim progressing.
Zurich issued its final response to Mr Ns complaint on 11 February 2022. It accepted it was 
at fault for the duplication of claims at the outset. But it stated this hadnt delayed the 
handling of the claim. It did, however, accept that it should have identified that duplicate 
claims had been logged sooner and offered to pay Mr N £200 for the trouble and upset this 
had caused. 
Zurich explained it didnt believe a lack of communication by its contractors had delayed the 
progression of the claim as there was evidence the contractors had been trying to reach Mr 
N. And it assured Mr N it would consider a loss of rent claim for the period the property was 
uninhabitable on receiving further information about this from him. 
Zurich emailed Mr N on 1 March 2022 to confirm the cash settlement it had offered. This was 
rejected by Mr N; he asked Zurichs agent to complete the reinstatement work instead. 
Zurich said its contractors contacted Mr N on 25 March 2022 to confirm his material choices. 
But he didnt confirm his choices until 25 May 2022. Zurich said this caused delay, although 
it conceded its agent could have completed some work while awaiting Mr Ns instructions. 
Zurich stated that the authorised work was completed on 4 July 2022. But Mr N was 
unhappy with the quality of the workmanship and commissioned an independent snagging 
report from a company that Ill refer to as B.
B completed a report identifying aspects of poor workmanship on 21 July 2022. And, on 9 
August 2022, Mr N contacted Zurich to discuss the issues B had reported on. Zurich said its 
contractor intended to address these issues via a scheduled meeting on 31 August 2022. 
But Mr N failed to attend the meeting and was unwilling to engage with the contractor any 
further. 
Zurich stated that it received Bs snagging report on 15 September 2022 and appointed a 
loss adjuster, S, to assess the outstanding works. On receiving S report, in mid-October 
2022, Zurich said it offered Mr N a cash settlement of £2,781.52 to resolve the outstanding 
snagging issues. This was just over 3 months after the initial work was completed.
Mr N made a further complaint to Zurich about the time it had taken to complete the 
reinstatement work, which was increasing his loss of rental income. He stated his furniture 
and vacuum cleaner had been damaged and his property had been left in an unclean 
condition. He was unhappy that the drains in his bathroom had been blocked by agents 
washing their painting tools in the sink and bath. And he said a full set of keys for the 
property hadnt been returned. He also wanted Zurich to reimburse him for the cost of Bs 
snagging report.
On 14 November 2022, Zurich issued a final response letter to Mr Ns second complaint. It 
said it had reviewed what had happened since its previous final response letter was issued. 
It agreed there were aspects of poor service and apologised for that. It offered to address 
the outstanding issues Mr N had raised and also offered to pay him £500 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced. 
Mr N was dissatisfied with how Zurich was proposing to resolve his complaint. So, on 15 
November 2022, he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator assessed the 
evidence provided but they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. They thought Zurich 
had acted unfairly and didnt recommend it take any further action. 
Zurich accepted our investigators view of Mr Ns complaint, but Mr N didnt agree. So, Ive 
been asked to decide the fairest way to resolve this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide the crux of the complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. 
Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by Mr N or Zurich its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome for the complaint as a whole.
In the background to this complaint, I explained that Mr N had complained separately to 
Zurich on two occasions about his claim. I pointed out that the final response to Mr Ns initial 
complaint was dated 11 February 2022 and that this covered his concerns about the 
duplication of the claim, poor communication and workmanship and the loss of rental 
income. 
Mr N didnt refer his complaint to our service about these issues within 6 months of Zurichs 
final response letter, which means these aspects of his complaint are time barred. Zurich 
hasnt consented to our service addressing these issues as part of this final decision process 
and Mr N hasnt provided any information regarding exceptional circumstances. My final 
decision therefore wont comment on the earlier complaint Mr N made and will only address 
issues from 11 February 2022 (the date of the first final response letter) to 14 November 
2022 (the date of the second complaint response). This is also the approach our investigator 
took.
When Mr N rejected our investigators view of the complaint he referred to our service his 
reasons for doing so were unclear. Our investigator asked him to clarify what he disagreed 
with. But hes declined to engage with our service about the areas of dispute. So, the cause 
of his disagreement remains unclear.
Based on the information available to me, the crux of this complaint appears to be that Mr N 
is unhappy with the time it took to complete the repairs to his rental property and the quality 
of the work undertaken. Ive therefore looked into these issues and thought about whether 
Zurich made a mistake, or treated Mr N unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. 
I appreciate this has been a stressful situation for Mr N. I imagine that he thought, at the 
start, this claim was all going to be sorted out with minimal fuss. However, that didnt 
happen; the claim process was complicated with poor workmanship, issues that fell below 
the expectation of Mr N and delay. I recognise that this will have caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr N in addition to the loss of rental income he suffered because his 
property was uninhabitable during the restoration works.
There are a number of parts to this complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal 
with them separately. 
Delay
Ive indicated that Mr N isnt happy with the length of time it took for his claim to resolve. His 
claim with Zurich was initiated in mid-February 2021 and was still ongoing by the end of 
2022. In assessing this aspect of Mr Ns complaint, Ive considered whether there was delay 
from 11 February to 14 November 2022 and, if so, what caused that delay.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied there was delay from 25 March until 25 May 
2022 which was due to Zurichs appointed agent waiting for Mr N to confirm his material 
preferences. However, Im satisfied that fault for the delay should be apportioned to both Mr 
N and Zurich. I say this because Zurich accepts its agents could have undertaken work while 
awaiting confirmation of Mr Ns choices. And, given the history of the claim by this point, Id 
have expected Zurich to be managing the claim in a more proactive manner by asking its 
agent and Mr N for progress updates. This would have kept the claim moving forward.After confirmation of the choices were received from Mr N, I can see the work was 
completed by 4 July 2022. I think this was a reasonable period within which the work was 
undertaken. So, Im satisfied there was no delay here.
I think there was additional delay, however, after Mr N raised concerns about the quality of 
the work Zurichs agent had completed. Ill explain why.
As a result of Mr Ns workmanship concerns, he instructed B to complete a report identifying 
aspects of poor workmanship. I understand the report was completed on 21 July 2021, 
which was within 17 days of the work being completed. Im satisfied this was prompt and 
reasonable action on the part of Mr N.
I can see that Mr N shared his concerns, and the opinion of B, with Zurich on 9 August 2022. 
While this could have happened sooner, I still think this happened within a reasonable time 
frame of Mr N receiving Bs report. But, while Mr N disclosed Bs concerns, he didnt share 
its report with Zurich at this stage. Had he done so, I think this would have helped Zurich 
better assess what had gone wrong and what was needed to resolve matters.
As I explained in the background to this complaint, Zurich tried to progress and resolve Mr 
Ns concerns about the quality of the workmanship by scheduling a meeting. This meeting 
was arranged for 31 August 2022, which was a reasonable time frame. However, I 
understand that Mr N declined to engage. Had he attended the meeting, Im persuaded the 
snagging work could have commenced sooner. So, I think this lack of engagement caused 
delay.
I understand that Zurich received Bs snagging report on 15 September 2022. Im satisfied 
that it was reasonable to appoint S to provide an opinion on the outstanding works. But its 
unclear why it took a month to receive S report and I think there was some delay here. 
Zurichs cash settlement offer was contingent on it receiving S report. So, I think the delay in 
the report being received delayed Zurichs ability offer Mr N a cash settlement. That delay 
could have been avoided had Zurich chased S.
As part of their investigation of this complaint, our investigator identified occasions where 
Zurich could have communicated better with Mr N about his claim. I agree with our 
investigators assessment about communication and I think clearer and more responsive 
communication could have better managed Mr Ns expectations about his claim. Ive thought 
about how this impacted on Mr N when thinking about the issue of compensation.
Settlement offer
Zurich initially offered Mr N £2781.52 for the snagging works. Before making this offer, 
Zurich considered Bs report and S opinion on the cost of resolving the snagging issues B 
identified. 
It appears that Zurich accepted that additional work was needed to remedy the work that B 
had identified to be substandard. This satisfies me that Zurich was trying its best to resolve 
the outstanding issues in a timely manner given the background of delay. I cant fairly 
criticise that approach and I havent seen any evidence that demonstrates that Zurich erred 
in initially relying on S opinion regarding the cost of the required snagging work.
Im satisfied that Zurich acted fairly in instructing S to assist it in making a cash settlement 
offer for the snagging work. I say this because it was clear there were issues with the quality 
of the workmanship undertaken. So, it wouldnt have been appropriate for Zurich to ask its 
agent to evaluate the work it had completed. And S is recognised organisation that regularly assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. It was therefore reasonable for Zurich to 
rely on S expertise in assessing a claim for damage.
I understand that after S reported to Zurich it decided to increase its offer to £6612 to cover 
the cost of the remedial works. It said it chose to take this action after it received a quotation 
in this sum from Mr N. 
Having seen the quotation Mr N provided, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Zurich 
to revise its settlement offer. Im persuaded the quotation Mr N presented covers all the 
outstanding work that was identified by B and S. It also includes the cost of furniture 
wrapping, bathroom pipe unblocking, professional cleaning and debris removal. As this 
quotation was provided by Mr N, Im satisfied Zurich has dealt with this part of his complaint 
fairly.
Zurich also paid Mr N £600 for electrical safety testing. It told our investigator that this 
payment was made after it received invoices from Mr N. So, Im satisfied hes been properly 
reimbursed for the costs he incurred in ensuring his rental property was electrically safe.
Additionally, Zurich said it paid £82.50 for a parking permit after Mr N provided a receipt 
showing this cost. Im satisfied Mr N has been properly refunded for this cost.
I understand that Mr N paid £180 in instructing B to provide a snagging report. I accept the 
reason why Mr N felt it necessary to instruct B given the concerns he had about the quality 
of the workmanship. And I can see that Zurich offered to reimburse that cost in its final 
response letter of 14 November 2022. This was fair and reasonable.
The condition in which the property was left
Mr N complained that Zurichs appointed agents washed their tools in his sink and bath, 
which caused the drains to become blocked. I recognise why this must have upset Mr N and 
caused frustration.
Zurich said it instructed an agent to attend Mr Ns rental property to unblock the drains on 
becoming aware of this problem. Im satisfied this demonstrates Zurich was attempting to put 
matters right for Mr N. Id expect it to take such action in the overall circumstances. So, Im 
satisfied it acted fairly in trying to resolve this issue for Mr N.
Mr N also complained that Zurichs appointed contractors failed to exercise reasonable care 
and skill by damaging his furniture during the reinstatement process. He said the contractors 
failed to cover his furniture in order to protect it from the work that was being undertaken.
Zurich told our investigator that Mr N had informed its contractors the furniture was already 
damaged and that he was intending to sell or dispose of it. But I can see that it accepted Mr 
Ns version of events instead. I say this because it requested a list of all items damaged with 
details of their replacement costs so it could consider a claim.
Zurich said it saw photographic evidence of the damage to Mr Ns furniture. But I havent 
seen any evidence that demonstrates Mr N provided proof of the cost of replacing the 
damaged furniture.
Zurich paid Mr N £5000 towards the cost of any furniture notwithstanding of the lack of 
evidence of its value. It said Mr N requested this sum for the damaged furniture and that 
payment was made on 22 December 2022. This isnt something Id have asked Zurich to do 
in the absence of evidence. And, as Zurich paid Mr N the sum he requested to cover the 
damage to his furniture, Im satisfied its been fair here.Mr N complained that Zurichs appointed agents left their rubbish behind and caused 
damage to his vacuum cleaner. He stated that his property required professional cleaning 
after the work was completed.
Zurich explained that in S report it hadnt reported any concerns regarding the state the 
property had been left it. So, it hadnt been aware that professional cleaning was required. 
But it accepted what Mr N had said and offered him £150 towards the cost of professional 
cleaning and £50 to cover the cost of the damaged appliance. This is fair in the overall 
circumstances.
Missing key
Mr N informed Zurich that its contractors failed to return the key to an entrance door. Zurich 
has stated that its agent had provided footage showing it had secured the property and 
posted the door keys. The agent stated it had never been given a key for the entrance door 
and, as such, was unable to return this key. 
I can see that Zurich has, again, accepted what Mr N said here. Its agreed to reimburse the 
cost of obtaining a key for the entrance door. Its also agreed to pay for the cost of Mr N 
changing all the locks of his rental property. This isnt something Id have asked Zurich to 
have covered as the changing of locks wouldnt be a cost Id expect it to have to meet. So, 
Im satisfied Zurich has acted fairly.
Loss of rental income
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mr Ns property is rented out. During the 
reinstatement works Mr Ns property was uninhabitable and he therefore suffered a financial 
loss while work was being undertaken. 
The policy Mr N holds covers the loss of rental income if a property becomes uninhabitable 
as a result of an insured risk as happened here.
In its final response letter of 11 February 2022, Zurich explained it would consider a loss of 
rental income claim if Mr N contacted it with further information. I can see this issue was 
raised again in Mr Ns second complaint. But I dont seek to criticise Zurich for not having 
resolved this issue by then because theres no evidence to show Mr N provided what it 
needed to do so
In its second final response letter, Zurich reminded Mr N that it was willing to consider a loss 
of rental income claim. But it said this was subject to the provision of a tenancy agreement 
showing the rental amount and bank statements confirming rent had been received prior to 
the work commencing and had ceased during the time work was ongoing.  
I can see that Zurich requested this information on several occasions from Mr N explaining 
that it couldnt progress or quantify this part of his claim without the required documentation. 
These were reasonable requests by Zurich as the onus of proving the loss rests on Mr N. 
Zurich said it saw sufficient evidence to persuade it Mr N had lost rental income during the 
reinstatement works. I can see it paid him £50,000 in lost rent, which it said equates to 25 
months of lost rental income. I havent seen any evidence from Mr N showing the dates his 
property was uninhabitable or that the sum paid by Zurich is incorrect. It follows that I cant 
fairly conclude this offer was unfair. Im satisfied Zurich resolved this aspect of Mr Ns 
complaint as soon as it had been given the information it required. Compensation offer
In its final response letter, dated 14 November 2022, Zurich offered to compensate Mr N in 
the sum of £500 for the poor service he received.
Ive already outlined the extent to which Mr N was inconvenienced by what happened. And, 
having had regard to the impact that all had on Mr N, Im persuaded the compensation 
already offered adequately is fair and reasonable. It recognises the trouble and upset he 
would have experienced and is in line with awards made by this service in comparable 
circumstances. I havent seen enough to satisfy me that a higher award is warranted. Its 
unclear whether the compensation was paid to Mr N. So, Zurich should ensure that £500 
compensation has been paid to Mr N to resolve this complaint.
Mr N hasnt provided our service with evidence of any shortfalls in the payments made by 
Zurich. He was asked to do so before I wrote my final decision. And, in the overall 
circumstances, Im satisfied that what Zurich has offered to resolve this complaint puts Mr N 
back into his pre-loss position. So, Im not directing Zurich to make any further payments 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Zurich Insurance PLC has already agreed a settlement that is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman