DRN-4472403
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he lost when 
he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr M says he saw his dream car for sale on an online marketplace for £1,100. The car 
wasnt roadworthy, but Mr M wished to buy it to restore. Mr M says it was clear it was in a 
poor condition from the photos provided and there was no need to view it. Mr M asked the 
seller if the vehicle was still available and then offered to pay £900 by bank transfer. The 
seller said he didnt need the full payment and to pay half before collection, but Mr M 
decided to transfer the full amount on 18 May 2023 to secure the vehicle. He then tried to 
organise for a recovery vehicle to collect his new vehicle, but the seller didnt provide him 
with a postcode or a refund. 
Mr M contacted Santander to report what had happened on 21 May 2023. Santander didnt 
agree to reimburse Mr M. It said that when Mr M made the payment, he was asked some on 
screen questions and replied that he had seen the vehicle when this wasnt the case, 
meaning that Santander was prevented from providing him with an appropriate warning. In 
addition to this, Mr M didnt complete any checks before paying for the vehicle.
Mr M was unhappy with Santanders response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code) and said that Santander acted fairly in relying on an exception to 
reimbursement because Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was paying a 
genuine seller. Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said he bought the 
vehicle in good faith and is the innocent victim of a crime.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Ive considered whether Santander should have reimbursed Mr M under the provisions of the 
CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr M was tricked into making the payment and is an innocent 
victim. But this isnt enough for him to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that:
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mr 
M and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Santander has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transaction Mr M made are enough to support its position that it can fairly 
rely on an exception to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. I dont think he had a 
reasonable basis for believing that the person he transacted with was legitimate or that the 
vehicle was genuine. I say this because:
- Mr M has been open that he didnt complete any checks into the vehicle or the seller. 
This means that he had no reason to believe the seller was who he said he was or 
that he owned the vehicle he was selling. I dont believe that because the vehicle 
wasnt roadworthy Mr M didnt need to take any steps to check that he was buying a 
genuine item from a legitimate seller.
- The seller only asked for a payment of half the cost of the vehicle, but Mr M decided 
to transfer the whole amount to secure it  before he saw what he was buying.
- During the payment journey Santander asked Mr M some questions. Mr M said he 
was buying goods and was prompted to say what he was buying. After disclosing he 
was buying a vehicle, Mr M was asked, Have you seen the item in person? and he 
confirmed that he had. As a result of the answer given, Santander only asked Mr M if 
he was comfortable making the payment. Mr M hadnt seen the vehicle and if hed 
have answered this question correctly Santander would have provided him with a 
more tailored warning which may have made him question what he was doing.  
- Mr M had no documentation in respect of the purchase and nothing to demonstrate 
legal ownership of the vehicle.
Its the combination of these factors that lead me to believe Mr M didnt have a reasonable 
basis for belief - none of them can be considered alone.
I also dont think Santander should have done more to warn Mr M when he made the 
payment or taken any other steps to prevent it from being made. Although I appreciate the 
loss of the funds has had an impact on Mr M, the amount of the transfer was relatively small 
and there was nothing obviously concerning about it that I would have expected Santander 
to pick up on.
Santander should contact the bank that received scam funds to try to recover them as soon 
as the scam is reported. I have seen evidence which confirms that Mr Ms funds were moved 
out of the account they were paid into on the day of the scam. As Mr M reported the scam to 
Santander a few days after this there was nothing more Santander could have done to 
recover his funds. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about this scam and Mr Ms loss, I cant reasonably ask 
Santander to reimburse him. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jay HadfieldOmbudsman