DRN-3896472
The complaint
Miss W complains about delays and poor service she received from Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV) under her breakdown assistance insurance policy. 
What happened
Whilst visiting an event over a weekend, Miss Ws car wouldnt start. This happened on the 
Friday in the early evening. She contacted LV and it sent an engineer to attend just over an 
hour later. Miss W says she told LV it was probably a flat battery that was causing the 
problem. But she says the engineer wasnt able to start the car and thought the fault lay with 
the starter motor.
Miss W says the engineer didnt have a spare battery. She says in her experience a 
breakdown service would carry a spare battery for such situations. As the car couldnt be 
started LV attempted to have the car recovered. But all of the recovery agents it contacted 
were unavailable to collect the car that evening. 
Miss Ws car was recovered the following morning. A garage subsequently diagnosed a 
faulty battery and installed a replacement. Miss W says she had to stay in the car overnight 
as the recovery agent wouldnt be able to access her car, or even find it in the event car 
park, without her being present. She says this was stressful for both her and her brother who 
suffers from health issues. 
LV says its engineer tried to diagnose the fault, but that this isnt always achievable based 
on the limited information available at the roadside. It says its policy terms explain a roadside 
diagnosis is provisional and a follow up may be required in a garage. LV says its engineers 
dont carry spare batteries or car parts with them. It says this isnt possible for all makes and 
models of cars. 
LV says on the day of the breakdown it experienced a high volume of requests for 
assistance. It says it tried several agents to arrange a recovery without success, so it had no 
option but to arrange this the following day and offer transport arrangements for Miss W and 
her brother. LV says a taxi was offered, as well as a hire car. But Miss W chose to stay in 
her car overnight. 
In its complaint response LV says it isnt responsible for Miss W missing the following two 
days of the event she was attending. It says it tried all the options it had available at the time 
to assist her. However, as a gesture of goodwill, LV paid Miss W £100. 
Miss W didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. He says having listened to the calls between Miss W and LV, its clear 
it had offered to put her car in temporary storage and arrange a taxi home or provide a hire 
car. Miss W didnt agree to this, which is why she stayed with her car until it was recovered 
to a garage. But our investigator thought LV had acted reasonably when trying to help Miss 
W. He thought the £100 compensation offered by LV was fair.
Miss W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Miss W but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read Miss Ws policy terms and conditions to understand what cover is provided by her 
policy. I can see she has UK Recovery and Home Assist breakdown cover. The terms say:
If your vehicle cannot be driven because of a breakdown, you may:
Choose one of the following benefits if repairs to the vehicle cannot be completed by the end 
of the working day on which the breakdown occurred; 
a) The hire of a replacement car (up to 1600cc) for up to 48 hours. We will pay the cost of 
the hire car but you are responsible for all other costs or benefits imposed or offered to you 
by the hire car company. You must take up the option of a hire car within 48 hours of the 
breakdown; or 
b) The cost for you and any passengers to either continue the journey or return to your home 
address by our choice of alternative transport, up to a maximum of £100 in total; or 
c) Pay up to £60 per person for overnight accommodation up to a maximum of £500 at 
accommodation near the garage that is repairing your vehicle, and up to £40 for reasonable 
public transport costs to get the driver to the garage the following day. You must send us 
your claim within 28 days for us to pay you these costs, along with the relevant receipts. 
Claim for the cost for one single standard class rail ticket for you or any authorised driver to 
collect the vehicle following repair.
Ive listened to the call recordings between LV and Miss W after her car failed to start. LV 
offered for the car to be recovered and held in storage until a repair could be arranged. Its 
agent also offered a taxi to take Miss W and her brother home. During the five call 
recordings provided, LVs agent also offers to provide a hire car for Miss W. 
Miss W is adamant that she wants the car to be collected and returned to her home address. 
LVs agents reiterate that her car will be safe in its storage facility, and it can then be 
recovered the following day. But Miss W refuses.  
Im sorry Miss Ws car broke down and that her weekend plans were disrupted. But I think 
LVs agents acted reasonably in offering the help they did. 
Ive thought about Miss Ws comments that LVs engineer diagnosed the fault incorrectly. 
From the records provided the engineer thought the issue was with a broken coil. Ive seen 
the garage invoice where Miss Ws car was repaired. This says the battery was tested but it 
had to be replaced, which the garage did. I acknowledge this isnt the diagnosis LVs 
engineer advised. But LV confirms its engineers dont carry spare parts, which includes 
batteries. This means a repair wasnt possible without recovering Miss Ws car to a garage. 
So, the wrong diagnosis didnt have an impact here as the repair couldnt be completed at 
the roadside. I acknowledge Miss Ws view that LVs engineers should carry a spare battery. LV says its 
not possible to carry spare parts for all makes and models of cars. I havent seen information 
that shows LVs engineer shouldve carried a spare battery suitable for Miss Ws car. The 
terms say LVs engineer will try to repair the vehicle, but that this may not be possible at the 
roadside. Based on this information I dont think LVs engineer treated Miss W unfairly given 
that a repair couldnt be completed at the roadside.
Miss W says she had to tell event staff that she would need to park her car overnight. Ive 
also thought about her comments that the recovery driver wouldnt have been able to 
recover her car without her being present. This is why she decided to stay in the car 
overnight. 
I understand the reasons Miss W gave for making this decision. But I dont think this is 
something LV told her she needed to do. It gave her the option of a taxi or hire car, which 
wouldve allowed Miss W to return to her car the following day. I note her comments that she 
wouldnt have been able to park at the event. Its not clear if it wouldve been possible for 
Miss W to park a hire car in the place of her recovered car, on the day following the 
breakdown. However, even if this wasnt possible, I dont think this is something LV can 
reasonably be held responsible for. 
We expect LV to behave fairly and provide the service its policy terms say it will. In these 
circumstances I think it did. Its unfortunate that the fault with Miss Ws car impacted on her 
weekend activities. But in the circumstances, I think LV did what it could to assist Miss W in 
line with the cover provided by her policy. It was her decision to stay in her car overnight as 
she didnt accept the offer of transport home whilst her car was held in secure storage 
overnight.    
Ive seen the records that show the breakdown engineers LV contacted to assist Miss W. 
This shows twelve different agents were contacted in total. LV says this was the sum total of 
all the agents available in the local area. These records show LVs agents tried to help Miss 
W as best they could with the resources available. Unfortunately, due to the demand on 
services and traffic in the area caused by the event Miss W was attending  her car couldnt 
be recovered home that night. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think LV treated Miss W unfairly. I think its reasonable 
that it paid £100 as a goodwill gesture. But I cant fairly ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman