DRN-3853007
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund transactions they didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L are joint account holders. The disputed transactions occurred on Mrs Ls 
debit card although Mr L has brought the complaint to our service.
The complaint concerns a large number of transactions to various online gambling 
merchants that took place over several months which the account holders deny making. 
These payments were made via a company who provided merchant acquiring services and 
Ill refer to them as M. These services allowed transactions to be made with the online 
merchants via M and then the payments were collected from Mr L and Mrs Ls account to 
settle the transactions.
Mr L told Barclays that they hadnt received statements for some time which is why the 
disputed transactions werent noticed earlier. They were reported about six weeks after the 
last disputed transaction. Barclays thought the account holders were grossly negligent 
because they delayed notifying Barclays about the disputed transactions. Barclays didnt 
think thered been any error with the delivery of the statements.
A number of transactions were automatically refunded which Barclays later advised was an 
error. When Barclays looked into the remaining disputed transactions they believed that they 
were authorised by Mr L and declined to refund the remaining transactions. Barclays 
cancelled the card and replaced it.
Mr L and Mrs L brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review where it was looked into by one of our adjudicators who asked for 
information from both parties. Mr L explained that neither he nor Mrs L had made the 
transactions and hadnt received statements which delayed the notification of them to 
Barclays.
Barclays provided details about the transactions and copies of the account statements. They 
believed that Mr L was responsible for these transactions as other earlier payments to 
gambling merchants (some the same as those later disputed) via M hadnt been disputed by 
either Mr L or Mrs L. Barclays didnt believe the pattern of the transactions was typical of 
unauthorised card usage and the account had received several thousand pounds of credits 
via M, likely winnings from the gambling payments that Mr L hadnt challenged. Barclays 
explained that the gambling merchants only made payments (for winnings) back to the same 
account/card they were made from, which would make it difficult for any winnings to be 
utilised by a third party. Barclays reported that M didnt respond to their enquiries. 
After considering the information supplied by both parties, the adjudicator thought that Mr L 
was likely responsible for making the payments himself.
Mr L disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint which has 
now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr L and Mrs L liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that they made them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr L or Mrs L 
authorised the transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the card payment details 
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr L and Mrs Ls account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mrs L. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr L and Mrs L responsible for the 
disputed transactions or not.
Whilst the disputed transactions were made with Mrs Ls card, both account holders have 
equal right to use the account and make payments from it. I do recognise that Mrs L, who is 
over 90 years old is unlikely to have made these numerous gambling transactions using Ms 
services to make the payment (which would also need an account with M).
But, looking at the history of transactions on the account, its apparent that Mr L has an 
account with M. He previously made numerous payments to various gambling merchants 
using his account with M which havent been disputed. At least one of those merchants is 
the same as several of the transactions that were later disputed by him, on behalf of Mrs L.
I also noted the incoming payments received from M into the account which amounted to 
over £6,000. The statements arent specific about which merchant made the various 
payments to their account, but they are direct payments from a business in Mr Ls name. As 
the majority of transactions made via M are to gambling merchants, there doesnt seem to 
be any other reasonable explanation for these incoming payments. 
So, I think it more likely than not that the incoming payments were linked to gambling 
activity. What that means for the complaint is that the joint account received a considerable 
amount of funds into it which Mr L hasnt disputed  and if he wasnt responsible for the 
disputed transactions then he wouldnt then be entitled to those incoming payments either. 
Essentially the account cant have had both disputed gambling transactions and then 
received undisputed payments into it from those gambling winnings.
Ive also thought about the likelihood of an unknown third-party having access to Mrs Ls 
card being responsible for these disputed transactions. The way the transactions have been 
conducted (for relatively small amounts over several months) doesnt seem typical of third-
party use. When the disputed transactions first started, the account held a considerable sum 
of money. It would have been a fairly straightforward matter for the account to be emptied, 
but that wasnt the case here. Its untypical for stolen card details to be used over such a 
long period of time because a third party wouldnt know when their use of the card would be 
reported by the cardholders. In this case they wouldnt be aware that Mr L and Mrs L were 
experiencing difficulties with their statements which delayed their notification. Much more likely that any third party would use whatever was in the account as quickly as 
possible before the card was stopped, but that didnt happen here. I accept that there are 
occasions when the typical card usage of a stolen card isnt followed, but I dont think this 
is one of those examples.
I recognise the disputed transactions were made using Mrs Ls card details, but considering 
the account was held jointly, I dont think its implausible that her card details were known to 
Mr L. And considering the historical relationship with gambling transactions using M (by Mr 
L), including some with the same merchant, I think it more likely than not that he was 
responsible, and it was reasonable for Barclays to hold him liable for them.
Gross negligence
Barclays also thought that the account holders were grossly negligent due to the delay in 
notifying them about the transactions. As Ive made a finding that I think Mr L was likely 
responsible, I dont need to consider this aspect further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman