DRN-3678659
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his account without giving him the required 
notice.
What happened
Mr F had a basic bank account with HSBC. On 19 October 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr F to tell
him it was closing his account. The account closed soon after.
Mr F complained to HSBC about this. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint, so he referred it
to us. One of our Investigators considered the complaint but agreed with HSBC that it
shouldnt be upheld. Mr F didnt accept this. He said HSBC hadnt complied with the relevant
regulations which required he be given 60 days notice when closing a basic account.
Mr F asked for the complaint to be looked at by an Ombudsman. So, it was passed to me
to consider.
I reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision on 9 August 2022. In this, I 
explained that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
HSBC has referred to its terms and conditions saying this allows it to close Mr Fs account 
without notice. I accept that the terms and conditions may allow for immediate closure in 
some instances. However, the terms and conditions of the account arent the only factor 
here.
Ive also considered the Payment Accounts Regulations 2015 (PAR). Part 4 of these 
regulations required certain institutes (HSBC being one) to provide what was referred to as 
a payment account with basic features. This is the type of account Mr F held with HSBC. 
The PAR say, in relation to a business closing a basic account, insofar as is relevant here:
(2) A designated credit institution may only close a payment account with basic features 
where at least one of the following conditions is met -
(a) the consumer has knowingly used, or attempted to use, the payment account for illegal 
purposes;
(b) there has been no transaction on the account for more than 24 consecutive months;
(c) the consumer provided incorrect information when applying for the account, and had 
the correct information been provided, the application would have been refused;
(d) the consumer is no longer legally resident in the European Union;
(e) the consumer has access to another payment account in the United Kingdom which 
 
(i) allows the consumer to make use of the services listed in regulation 19(1); and 
(ii) was opened after the payment account with basic features;
(f) the credit institution considers that the consumers conduct in relation to the credit 
institutions staff amounts to the commission of an offence under -
(i) section 4, 4A or 5 of the Public Order Act 1986;
(ii) the Protection from Harassment Act 1997;
(iii) section 38 of the Criminal Justice and Licensing (Scotland) Act 2010 
(threatening or abusive behaviour);
(iv) Article 9 of the Public Order (Northern Ireland) Order 1987 (use of words 
or behaviour or display of written material);
(v) the Protection from Harassment (Northern Ireland) Order 1997.
(3) Subject to paragraph (4), where a designated credit institution terminates a framework 
contract for a payment account with basic features on one or more of the grounds 
mentioned in paragraph (2)(b), (d) or (e), the designated credit institution must inform the 
consumer of the grounds and the justification for termination -
(a) at least two months before the termination enters into force;
(b) in writing; and
(c) free of charge.
(4) Paragraph (3) does not apply where disclosure to the customer of the grounds and
justification for the termination would be unlawful.
(5) Any termination in accordance with paragraph (2)(a), (c) or (f) is to have immediate 
effect.
(6) Where a designated credit institution terminates a framework contract in accordance with
paragraph 2(a), (c) or (f), the credit institution must inform the consumer of the grounds 
and justification for termination without delay except where it would be unlawful to do so.
Based on this, I dont accept that HSBC was entitled to close Mr Fs basic account for the
reasons its given.
HSBC has said that Mr F had access to another account offering basic features which
allowed it to close the account. As evidence of this, its shown us details of a transfer Mr F
made to another account in his name. However, this transaction quoted was made on
29 October 2021. And HSBC notified Mr F of its intention to close his account before this on
19 October 2021. Weve asked Mr F for details of this account, and hes provided evidence
that he didnt apply for this until 19 October 2021, when HSBC told him it was suspending
his account and closing it without notice. And it wasnt opened until 25 October. So, at the
time HSBC told Mr F it was closing his account, I havent seen anything to suggest he did
have access to another account with basic facilities.
Whilst HSBC has told us it wasnt happy with Mr Fs conduct on the account, I dont think this
conduct meets the definition of any of the points above which allow immediate closure of the
account under section two that Ive quoted above. Furthermore, the regulations, in most
circumstances, require HSBC to tell Mr F why its closing his account. Having looked at the
closure letter sent to him, there is no explanation given.
It's clear that the relationship between Mr F and HSBC has now broken down. And Mr F 
now has an account offering the features of a basic bank account. So, Im not going to tell 
HSBC to reopen Mr Fs account. However, I think that by closing Mr Fs account when it 
wasnt entitled to do so under the PAR, and by not giving him the required notice or reason 
for its decision, its caused Mr F distress and inconvenience. Hes had to open a new account with another provider on short notice. And for this I think compensation of £150 is 
fair and reasonable.
Mr F said he accepted the decision but requested the HSBC account be reopened. 
HSBC said it had looked back further through statements and found that Mr F had another 
account with another provider which it thought meant it was entitled to close Mr Fs account 
immediately and without notice.
The complaint has now been passed back to me to review and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC closed Mr Fs account without, as far as I can see, any consideration of the PAR 
regulations set out above. It was only once the complaint was referred to our service that it 
said Mr F had another account which it thought allowed it to close Mr Fs account 
immediately. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, Mr F didnt open that 
account until after HSBC told him it was going to close his account.
HSBC has now said its found evidence that Mr F had another account it thinks offered the 
same facilities that the basic account offered which wouldve allowed it to close the account 
for the reasons set out in the PAR. Firstly, Id point out that it seems HSBC is retrospectively 
finding reasons that it was allowed to have closed Mr Fs account without notice. Whereas it 
shouldve satisfied itself that it was allowed to do this before telling Mr F it was going to close 
his account. 
Mr F has provided evidence that the account HSBC has most recently referred to was in fact 
closed on 20 April 2021  six months prior to HSBC deciding to close Mr Fs account. So, at 
the time the account was closed, Im satisfied Mr F didnt have access to another account 
offering the features of the basic account.
Based on this, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision (repeated above), I 
remain of the opinion that HSBC wasnt entitled to close Mr Fs basic account without notice 
for the reasons its given under the PAR.
Ive thought about Mr Fs request that I tell HSBC to reopen his account. But Im not going to 
do so. Its clear that the relationship between him and HSBC has broken down. And now that 
Mr M does have another account with basic banking features, hes no longer eligible for the 
basic account.
I do still think that by not giving Mr F the required notice or reason for its decision, HSBC has 
caused Mr F distress and inconvenience. As I explained in my provisional decision, he had 
to open a new account with another provider on short notice. Im satisfied that compensation 
of £150 is fair and reasonable for that.
 
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr F £150 compensation. I 
make no further award and dont require HSBC to reopen Mr Fs account. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman