DRN-2533269
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with how Gresham Insurance Company Limited progressed a legal 
expenses insurance claim and that, in particular it didnt obtain an expert report on this. 
All references to Gresham include its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
In 2011 Mr F bought a new apartment. The following year he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy as he wanted to take action against the developer for issues 
including the excessively high temperature in his flat. Solicitors advised the claim had 
reasonable prospects of success (as required by his policy) but that position changed when 
solicitors advised the developer had made a reasonable offer to remedy the problem. 
Mr F got back in touch with Gresham in August 2015 as many of his issues remained 
unresolved (a separate complaint about a claim on the building warranty covering his 
apartment was considered by us during this time).  Gresham referred the matter to a new 
firm of panel solicitors who subsequently advised they were conflicted and couldnt act. After 
further discussion Mr F agreed to the appointment of an alternative panel firm. They advised 
in June 2016 that a claim for financial loss did appear to have reasonable prospects of 
success but said further investigation was required. 
In October 2016 counsels opinion on the claim was received which confirmed that elements 
of the claim did enjoy good prospects of success but the current proposal (by the developer) 
to carry out remedial works and provide Mr F with alternative accommodation appeared in 
broad terms to be reasonable. Counsel did comment that without the benefit of expert 
evidence it wasnt possible to say whether the proposed works were likely to satisfactorily 
resolve all of the issues Mr F had with his apartment. 
Following further discussion, counsel agreed the right way forward would be to conclude an 
agreement with the developer to enable the works to be carried out and then allow a period 
to see if they had been effective. The panel solicitors engaged in discussions with the 
developer and an offer was accepted in July 2017. 
Further discussion continued between the developer, panel solicitor and Mr F for some time 
after that. However, in late 2018 Mr F contacted Gresham to say that matters remained 
unresolved and the work hadnt been carried out. As part of that correspondence he said an 
expert report should be obtained. Gresham sought for advice from the panel solicitors who 
didnt agree this was required. They said the settlement offer allowed Mr F to refer the matter 
to an independent surveyor if the remedial works didnt achieve their aim.  In January 2019 
Gresham said it was entitled to rely on that advice but if Mr F obtained a contrary opinion 
from another lawyer it would fund a barristers opinion to resolve matters.  
Mr F provided advice from an alternative solicitor but Gresham said this was in line with what 
the panel solicitors had already said. Mr F then supplied an opinion from another firm which 
said an expert report was required. Gresham continued to have concerns about whether this 
was needed but noted the developer had offered to pay £5,000 towards Mr Fs expert and 
legal fees. Gresham agreed to cover any costs in obtaining advice in excess of that amount. 
Our investigator didnt think any specific request had been made to Gresham for an expert 
report from October 2013 until October 2016. And while there was reference to this in 
counsels opinion, Mr Fs solicitors didnt ask Gresham to fund a report following on from 
that. She noted a request was made by Mr F in December 2018 but thought it was 
reasonable of Gresham to seek advice from the panel solicitors on this. And their advice was 
that this wasnt required. 
And while Gresham didnt initially agree to fund a report after Mr Fs new solicitors said this 
was necessary it did then agree to fund any shortfall between the amount offered by the 
developer and the cost of the report. And she didnt feel there had been any delay by 
Gresham in appointing the new solicitor. 
She also noted that while Mr F had raised concerns about how Gresham had considered 
whether his claim was proportionate to pursue it hadnt been turned down at any point for 
this reason. 
Mr F said the developers offer was conditional on him accepting the settlement offer. So he 
wasnt able to obtain expert advice before agreeing to that or know whether the proposed 
works would remedy the problems at his apartment. In fact when a report was provided in 
April 2020 it concluded the works werent sufficient to do so. However, as the limitation 
period for his claim has now expired he isnt able to bring proceedings against the developer 
to compel it to do what is now required. So I need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand Mr F has concerns about what Gresham did prior to October 2013. 
However, our investigator didnt feel these were matters we could consider because theyd 
been referred to us more than six months after Gresham provided a final response on these 
matters. 
I appreciate Mr F disagrees with that but the question of whether these are matters we can 
consider are being looked at as part of a separate complaint. It isnt something Im looking at 
in this decision. What Im considering is what happened after that and, in particular, Mr Fs 
view that Gresham should have sought an expert opinion on the issues in his apartment at a 
much earlier stage. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Gresham has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I note in correspondence Mr F 
has gone into considerable details about the issues of concern to him and raised numerous 
points. I do understand this matter is important to him but I dont think its either practical or 
necessary for me to respond to each individual point of concern. Instead Ive sought to focus on what, in my view, are the key issues, thinking in particular 
about where any error by Gresham is likely to have had an impact on Mr F which would 
warrant a remedy. I think its also important to stress that in doing so Im only considering the 
actions of his insurer (or its agents and claims handlers). I cant consider a complaint about 
the actions of the solicitors appointed to act for him. 
Should Gresham have sought an expert report prior to counsels opinion being received in 
October 2016?
Ive seen correspondence from the panel solicitors at the end of 2013 in relation to the offer 
the developer had made to resolve the issues at Mr Fs property. That says a court would 
expect Mr F to allow the developer a reasonable opportunity to complete any proposed 
remedial works. It acknowledges these may not resolve the problem but doesnt suggest that 
an expert report is required in relation to them. I dont think it was unreasonable of Gresham 
to rely on that advice and, as solicitors hadnt suggested an expert report was required at 
that stage, I dont think it did anything wrong in not asking for one. 
But after Mr F got back in touch with Gresham in August 2015 it did refer the matter to a new 
firm of panel solicitors. I can see a prospects assessment was produced by that firm in 
November 2015 (prior to them advising that they had a conflict). That report did say that up 
to date valuation evidence was required in support of a claim for a reduction in the value of 
the property (and said it might be prudent to seek advice on the potential remedies open to 
Mr F). However, it didnt advise that specialist advice was required on whether the proposed 
works at the property would address the problems Mr F was experiencing. 
And while it doesnt look like Gresham did seek the recommended evidence that appears to 
be because of the conflict which then arose with the panel solicitors. I dont think it would 
have made sense to progress matters until that issue had been resolved. And I can see that 
Gresham correctly advised Mr F he was able to appoint his own solicitors following that. 
As Mr F wasnt able to do so Gresham agreed to the appointment of an alternative panel firm 
in April 2016. I think it was reasonable that Gresham then asked that firm to carry out its own 
assessment of the prospects of success of the case (particularly given the time that had 
passed since the previous assessment). 
Mr F has raised concerns that Gresham didnt also seek advice on whether the claim was 
proportionate to pursue. But while it appears some concerns may have been raised about 
this, Gresham didnt decline cover on this basis (and in fact agreed to the appointment of 
counsel to consider matters further). So it was presumably satisfied the claim was 
proportionate to pursue on the basis of the evidence it did have. 
And while I note the panel firm did feel additional evidence was required ultimately the 
decision made was to seek counsels opinion. That doesnt in itself seem unreasonable 
given the complexity of the case and the issues raised. I think it was then for counsel to 
advise on what additional evidence was required.  
Should Gresham have sought an expert report after counsels opinion was received?
Ive reviewed the barristers opinion on the claim dated October 2016. This found Mr Fs 
claim for damages in relation to defects within the apartment and the excessive heating (and 
inadequate ventilation) had good prospects of success. However, the opinion said the 
proposal to carry out remedial works and to provide with Mr F with alternative 
accommodation appeared in broad terms to be reasonable. The opinion said if the works 
were successfully carried out there is no evidence to support a claim for any residual 
diminution in value.The opinion doesnt suggest any further evidence on valuation was required. So I dont think 
Gresham did anything wrong in not progressing this. But I recognise that as part of her 
opinion the barrister also said If there is any concern that the proposed works to the 
Apartment might not fully resolve the issues relating to inadequate ventilation and excessive 
heating, it may be appropriate to obtain an independent expert report to consider the 
proposed works and whether they are likely fully to resolve these issues. 
The opinion goes on to say without the benefit of expert evidence, it is not possible to 
assess whether these proposed works are likely to resolve satisfactorily all the issues raised 
by [Mr F] in relation to the defects in his Apartment. So that would, on the face of it, support 
Mr Fs view that Gresham should have obtained further evidence on this issue.
However, I can see there was then further correspondence between the panel solicitors and 
the barrister. As part of her response the barrister accepted that it was possible no cause 
would be found for the excessive heat in the apartment or any remedy might be 
disproportionate. And while an expert might be able to investigate now and provide valuable 
guidance this would require the developers co-operation and access to services which 
wasnt guaranteed. 
The barrister agreed with panel solicitors that it would be sensible to see whether [the 
developer] would be prepared to enter into a standstill agreement on suitable terms, which 
would enable the works to the apartment to be carried out and would allow a sufficient period 
thereafter to establish whether they have been effective or (as [Mr F] fears) whether the 
inherent problems with the building continue to affect the apartment.
So, while it does appear there were competing arguments, the legal advice was that an 
agreement should be reached to see whether the proposed works remedied the problem. I 
recognise that Mr F may disagree with that but I dont think there was any reason why 
Gresham shouldnt have relied on that advice. And so I dont think it did anything wrong in 
not obtaining expert advice at this time. 
Following that the panel solicitors discussed settlement terms with the developer to enable 
the remedial work to be carried out. That did take some time and I understand Mr Fs 
concerns about that. But the points hes made are directed at the actions of the panel 
solicitors. I can see the solicitors provided updates to Gresham confirming the claim 
continued to have prospects and was proportionate to pursue. I dont think there was any 
reason for Gresham to take further action here. 
I can see Gresham also confirmed funding in principle for the issue of proceedings prior to 
the expiry of the limitation date for this. But as an offer was then made and accepted (by the 
panel solicitors) there wasnt then anything further for Gresham to do in relation to the claim 
at this stage. No request had been made by the panel solicitors for funding for an expert 
report so I dont see this was something Gresham needed to do. Mr F has argued 
acceptance of the offer wasnt lawful because it hadnt been made in sufficiently clear and 
unambiguous terms. However, I dont think thats material to the outcome of this complaint 
so it isnt something I need to consider (and the question of whether this was a legally 
binding agreement would in any case be a matter for the courts to determine).   
Further contact from Mr F from late 2018
Mr F got back in touch with Gresham in late 2018 to say the agreed work hadnt taken place 
and he thought an expert report should now be obtained. I can see Gresham asked the 
panel solicitors tor their view on the matter who advised the first step would be to ask the 
developer what action theyd be taking to remedy the ongoing issues. The panel solicitors then provided detailed advice in early 2019 on whether it would be 
possible to take enforcement action under the terms of the previously agreed settlement 
agreement. They didnt advise that an expert report was required and said the terms of the 
agreement provided a mechanism for matters to be referred to a surveyor if the works hadnt 
achieved their aim. The panel solicitors also advised that as it appeared Mr F hadnt allowed 
the works under the settlement agreement to take place it was likely a court would find that 
to be unreasonable. 
I appreciate Mr F doesnt agree with the legal advice provided by the panel solicitors. But the 
issue for me isnt whether that advice was correct or not but whether it was reasonable for 
Gresham to rely on it. The letter from the panel solicitors appears to be properly written and 
reasoned and from a qualified solicitor. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Gresham to 
rely on that advice. I can see Gresham did also advise Mr F that it would review matters if he 
was able to provide counsels opinion in support of his position (and would reimburse him 
the costs hed incurred if that opinion was supportive). I think that was the right approach.
It appears Mr F did then approach an alternative firm of solicitors and sought advice on the 
enforceability of the agreement entered into with the developer (and a possible negligence 
claim against the panel solicitors). Ive read that advice which doesnt suggest an expert 
report is required and draws attention to the mechanisms in the settlement agreement for 
approving and signing off the works. That doesnt appear out of line with the view of the 
panel solicitors so I dont think it was unreasonable of Gresham to conclude it didnt 
represent a challenge to their opinion. 
The following month (March) Mr F asked for a different firm to be appointed to progress his 
case. Gresham sent terms of business to that firm and, while I appreciate it took time for 
these to be agreed, I dont think there was any significant delay by Gresham in progressing 
matters. But while these terms were being discussed that firm did send an email to Gresham 
confirming that in their opinion an expert report was essential to enable [Mr F] to be properly 
informed as to the adequacy of the work being offered by the developer. 
There was then some further discussion between Gresham and Mr Fs new solicitors in 
which they provided further explanation as to why an expert report was required in order to 
conclude a draft agreement with the developer. The solicitors explained that it was the issue 
of this agreement which had generated the need for an expert report on the adequacy of the 
works. So, while I appreciate that doesnt represent a challenge in itself to the previous 
advice from the panel solicitors (as it appears it was this draft agreement that had prompted 
the need for advice), I accept there was now a legal opinion which clearly says it was 
required.    
Gresham then said as the developer had agreed to make a contribution of £5,000 towards 
Mr Fs professional costs as part of the settlement agreement it would pay experts fees and 
legal costs associated with concluding the agreement if these exceeded the amount offered 
by the developer. But I understand Mr Fs concern that payment of this amount by the 
developer was conditional on him accepting the settlement agreement. 
However, this approach does appear to follow the advice from his new solicitors. I can see 
that in relation to this issue they said the indemnity should only apply to our costs and the 
fees of an expert to provide the required report which exceed the contribution offered of 
£5000. So in providing that indemnity Gresham were in fact acting in line with the advice 
from the new solicitors. I note Mr F also appears to have been in agreement with this as he 
also said the logic of proceeding with the developer's revised agreement (subject to any 
amendments [the new solicitor] might advise) is unassailable.Following on from this and as part of discussions over the settlement agreement Gresham 
did authorise obtaining expert reports where the cost exceeded the amount offered by the 
developer. I appreciate Mr F is concerned that after the works had then been completed a 
further report was obtained which did raise issues over some design aspects of works. I 
understand why Mr F feels that should have been obtained earlier. 
But from what Ive seen Gresham has broadly acted in line with the legal advice it was given 
on obtaining expert advice and I dont think it acted unreasonably in doing so. And while I do 
appreciate this matter has been ongoing for many years I havent identified significant delay 
by Gresham in progressing the claim. So I dont think any losses Mr F has incurred (and 
which hes set out in correspondence with us) result from something Gresham got wrong. If 
Mr F is unhappy with the actions of the solicitors who acted for him then, as hes aware, he 
can pursue those matters with the Legal Ombudsman. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman