DRN-3198464
The complaint
Mr J complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) gave him a loan 
that he didnt agree to.
What happened
Likely Loans lent Mr J a loan of £4000 in June 2021. Mr J says Likely Loans gave him a loan 
he didnt agree to. I will outline his complaint further when I also give the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and am not 
upholding Mr Js complaint. I will explain why.
Mr J says that when he applied for a loan with Likely Loans, he was sent notification by it 
that his application had been declined. Mr J says he thought then that the application had 
ended. He says he then received a text message from Likely Loans, but he thought this was 
a scam message so ignored it. He says he then received £4000 in his account but was also 
waiting on a tax rebate and so didnt think too much about it. He says he has then since 
been chased by Likely Loans for repayment of the loan. He complains that he was unaware 
that he had agreed to loan and hasnt signed for anything. He says his loan application had 
been declined and Likely Loans went ahead and granted the loan anyway. He says he was 
given the loan without his consent. 
Likely Loans has explained to our service and to Mr J within its final response, that it 
received two loan applications from Mr J within 5 minutes. The first application was 
submitted by Mr J at 1125 on 4 June 2021 and the second at 1130 on the same day. It said 
that Mr J had submitted the first then submitted the second five minutes later with a 
corrected mobile phone number. Likely Loans said that it declined one of the applications as 
its systems only allow for one application at a time. And at this point Mr J received a 
message to say it had been declined. But it says, the other application was still open. It says 
before Mr J submitted either application to it, he would have had to confirm that he had read 
the terms and conditions and also agreed via an electronic signature, to the credit 
agreement. It says on the 8th June, 4 days later, it approved his remaining open application 
and that he received a text message, email and then latterly a letter to say his loan for £4000 
had been approved. He then received £4000 in his bank account.
I have read through all of the documentation supplied by Likely Loans and have read what 
Mr J has said carefully. I think on balance, I cant on this occasion say that Mr J wasnt given 
clear information about this loan, didnt sign up for it or was unaware that he was given it. 
I can see that Likely Loans would have needed to have received consent from Mr J before 
he submitted his loan application and can see from the documentation Likely Loans has 
provided that Mr J did this twice as has already been mentioned: for the declined application 
and then for the application that was approved.
Mr J received £4000 in his bank account, and this was the amount he asked for when he 
applied for a loan with Likely Loans. The transaction would most likely have been labelled as 
from Likely Loans also. So, I think it is unlikely at this stage that Mr J would have thought it 
was anything other than a loan from Likely Loans.
So, overall, I agree with the investigator. I dont think Likely Loans did anything wrong on this 
occasion regarding Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman