DRN-3014226
The complaint
Mr C complains that Phoenix Life Limited (PL) made the decision to end the Guaranteed 
Annuity Rate (GAR) on part of his pension plan without his consent or knowledge.  
What happened
Mr C has a pension policy which has been in place since 1989. It was taken out with Royal & 
SunAlliance (RSA), but is now administered by PL. The policy includes a GAR. 
In 2019 he realised that his statements explained that the GAR only applied to part of his 
policy. He contacted PL who explained that the GAR had ceased to apply on Mr Cs product 
from 1 December 1998 for:
All new business
Incremental increases (regular/single), and,
Investment switches from unit-linked to with-profit funds
The GAR also ceased to apply from any benefits arising from DSS contributions received 
post 30 June 1999. 
PL said the decision to cease the GAR on future contributions and new business was made 
in 1998/1999 due to the prevailing and expected future economic conditions and the 
historically low levels on long term interest rates. They said all policy holders were informed 
at the time. Mr C was told that with regards to his current value (in October 2019) 
approximately 82% of his policy were benefits qualifying for a GAR.
Mr C said he never received information about the changes to his policy in 1998/1999 and 
feels that given the importance of this step his agreement should have been sought. Mr C 
provided copies of his annual disclosure documents from 1998 and 1999 which didnt 
mention the GAR changes. PL said due to the passage of time they couldnt locate the 
actual letters being sent to Mr C. However, they did provide a leaflet from 1998 titled 
Important changes to Guaranteed Annuity Rates which was aimed at customers who had a 
GAR and which set out the changes. They say this would have been sent to all policy 
holders.
Mr C remained unhappy. He would like PL to apply the GAR to his whole policy value.
One of our investigators didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C didnt accept his view and so 
the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Cs disappointment that only part of his pension policy attracts a GAR, 
however, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Mr Cs policy terms and clause 13 said:
The Assurance Company reserves the right to alter the terms of the Policy and the 
Conditions contained in the Schedules in such a way as it deems appropriate and as
may be permitted by the Commissioners and the Board in the event of a change in the law 
or in the basis of taxation applicable to the Assurance Company or the Policy or any
other material change of circumstances which renders it impossible, impracticable or 
inequitable between policyholders fully to comply with all the terms of the Policy or to pursue 
any slated or established practice with respect to the operation of any Fund or its valuation. 
Im satisfied that this allowed RSA to change the policy and discontinue the GAR on future 
contributions. They didnt need Mr Cs agreement. 
I appreciate theres no evidence of any personalised letter being sent to Mr C about these 
changes in 1998/1999 and I understand Mr C says he never received this information which 
I dont doubt are his honest recollections. However, this happened over 20 years ago, so I 
think its reasonable to make some allowances for incomplete records. Just because copies 
of letters cant be provided doesnt mean they werent sent and PL says everyone would 
have been informed of the changes. 
Of course its possible that Mr C erroneously wasnt sent the leaflet. However, I also do have 
to consider the possibilities that Mr C was sent the information and didnt receive it or that he 
did receive the information and simply cant recall it. After all, this happened a very long time 
ago and he was around 25 years away from retirement at that point. He might not have paid 
as much attention to this than he is now when his retirement is close.
Where evidence available is inconclusive or conflicting, I need to decide what I think likely 
happened on the balance of probabilities. I can see that Mr Cs annual disclosure statements 
mention the change in economic conditions, the significant change in interest rates and the 
expected reduced returns for pensions in future which was leading to lower bonus rates on 
his plan. In the 1980s and 1990s policies containing GARs were more common than in later 
years when it became apparent that investment returns wouldnt be as high and long-term 
interest rates would be lower than previously assumed.  
So I think its plausible that RSA decided to stop the GAR on future contributions in 
1998/1999. And as I said above I think they were allowed to do this without Mr Cs 
agreement. Ive also seen a copy of the leaflet that was produced at the time which was 
addressed to all policy holders who had a GAR. On balance I think its more likely than not 
this information would have been sent to all policy holders and likely also to Mr C. As I said 
above, its possible Mr C didnt receive this leaflet, but on balance I think it was likely sent.
I appreciate the statements Mr C received prior to 2018 could have been clearer, but overall 
I dont think Mr C is entitled to an application of his GAR to his whole pension. And even if he 
didnt receive the information in 1998/1999, this fact wouldnt change.
 For these reasons I wont ask PL to honour the GAR on the full policy value.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 Nina Walter
Ombudsman