DRN-2732235
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited incorrectly 
recorded information about an incident he reported while he held a car insurance policy with 
it. 
What happened
In September 2019 Mr C reported to LV that hed ran over some debris on a road causing a 
tyre to burst and wheel damage. In September 2020 Mr C said he discovered that LV had 
recorded an incident on internal and external databases which was incorrect. Mr C said LV 
refused to remove the incident and this means he is paying hundreds of pounds more for 
insurance over the next five years. He later told us that he couldnt obtain quotes from other 
insurers as a result of how the incident had been recorded, so he was forced to remain 
insured with LV.
Mr C wants LV to remove the record and compensate him for at least £1,000.
In October 2020 LV replied to Mr Cs complaint. It apologised for the delay in updating an 
external database with the correct information and closing the record, but it said it was 
correct to record the incident. For the delay it paid Mr C £25 compensation. LV has recorded 
an incident for information purposes only. It said Mr Cs protected No Claims Discount was 
unaffected. 
Mr C remained unhappy and said LV should remove any record as there wasnt an incident 
 he got a puncture. 
Our investigator explained that LV had correctly recorded an incident as an incident had 
occurred, even though Mr C hadnt made a claim.
Mr C didnt agree. He provided screenshots from a comparison website to show that he 
would be charged a 10% increase in premiums as a result of the incident  compared with 
having no incident recorded. He said LVs internal portal has recorded multiple incidents for 
that date which is incorrect. He says he isnt able to access the external database LV has 
updated which is unfair. 
Mr C has provided an extract from his policy which says LV wont cover loss or damage to 
tyres caused by braking, punctures, cuts or bursts. He says as he had a burst tyre, LV 
wouldnt have covered his claim if hed made one anyway, so it shouldnt be recorded. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most insurers have an agreement to share information about any incidents, accidents or 
claims on an external database called the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE). Access to 
the CUE database is available through a number of different providers.
In Mr Cs case, LV had failed to close the record  even though in January 2020 it wrote to 
Mr C to say as he hadnt submitted a claim for repairs, it would close its file. So when Mr C 
raised a complaint, LV discovered the error and updated the record to show the incident as a 
notification only. 
For LVs poor service here, it paid Mr C £25 compensation. Ive considered what the impact 
was on Mr C as a result of LVs delay. As he reported an incident involving his car colliding 
with debris on the road, I think LV correctly recorded an incident. Incidents irrespective of 
whether a claim is made should be recorded  and LV therefore treated Mr C as it would any 
other customer in the same position. So I think the £25 LV paid Mr C was fair and 
reasonable. 
The extract Mr C has provided from LVs policy booklet says it wont provide cover for loss or 
damage for a tyre that is punctured or burst. There are many reasons for a tyre to burst or 
puncture: for example, wear and tear or loss of pressure. So it isnt unusual for LV as an 
insurer to have such an exclusion. However, the policy provides cover for loss or damage 
caused by impact related damage. As Mr Cs car impacted with debris on the road, the 
exclusion Mr C has highlighted wouldnt apply. When Mr C called LV, he reported that he 
had hit something in the road which had caused damage to a wheel and tyre. He was 
considering making a claim against the Highways Agency, provided a reference number for 
that claim and said he was considering using legal expenses cover to assist with that. Mr C 
explained that both the police and the Highways Agency had been contacted about the 
incident. Mr C was to obtain a quote for the repairs and contact LV if he wanted to proceed 
with a claim. So I dont think its fair to say that no incident occurred and it was merely a 
puncture. 
In any event, in Mr Cs case he chose not to make a claim. But as he reported the incident, I 
think LV acted correctly in recording it on an external database. LV has confirmed it has 
recorded the claim on its own record once.
Ive looked at the screenshots Mr C has provided which he says shows insurers would 
charge him around 10% more as a result of the incident. He feels this is unfair. 
As our investigator explained, insurers rate risk differently. Some insurers will apply a rating 
for a notification only incident, some wont. The screenshots show that not all insurers on 
this particular comparison website applied an increase in premium as a result of the 
notification. And the premium ranges between a price of £443 a year both including and 
excluding the notification - to £743 including the notification and £770 excluding it. I cant 
hold LV responsible for the premium other insurers choose to charge as this is a commercial 
decision they are entitled to make. 
Taking everything into account, I think LV has correctly recorded the incident. I think the 
compensation it paid for failing to close the record correctly is fair. I understand Mr C will be 
very disappointed, but this means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman