DRN-4119679
The complaint
Mr S complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) and its decision to 
decline his insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr S has home insurance with Accredited which began in July 2022 and runs until July 
2023.
In October 2022 Mr S found his roof was leaking following a prolonged period of heavy rain. 
And so he contacted a roofer to attend and inspect it. 
Mr S said the roofer told him he would need to replace the roof and do so urgently as there 
was more heavy rain expected during the weekend. So, Mr S arranged for the roof to be 
replaced the following day. 
Mr S was told there was a concrete block in the roof which was the likely cause of the leak. 
So Mr S made a claim on his insurance policy. 
Accredited declined the claim because there were no high winds present at the time of the 
damage. Mr S explained he wasnt claiming for winds but the torrential rain and falling 
objects, which he believed were covered under his policy. Mr S asked Accredited to pay a 
contribution to the settlement of the claim under the terms of the policy. But Accredited 
declined to do so since the costs were too high. 
Mr S says he has paid out £2500 to repair his roof when he has an insurance policy which 
should cover it. Mr S complained to Accredited. He wants it to pay the claim plus 
compensation. 
Accredited said Mr Ss claim was considered under the storm section of the policy. It said it 
checked the weather conditions in the area on the date of the incident and the wind speeds 
were 22mph and so dont meet the conditions under the policy. Accredited said it sent a 
surveyor to inspect the property but since the tiles had been replaced he was unable to 
validate the claim. 
Mr S didnt agree with Accrediteds approach and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she hadnt seen any evidence 
the leak was caused by an insured event and so Mr C hadnt proved the terms of the policy 
had been met. The investigator said Mr S said the damage was caused by a fallen block 
from his roof but that wasnt covered under the terms of the policy so it was fair for 
Accredited to decline the claim. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators outcome. He said he provided a report from a 
professional roofer giving a written account of the damage and how the leak happened. He 
said he wasnt able to wait for the insurer to come and inspect the damage because he 
needed to repair the leak. Mr S said he checked the Met Office records showing there was 
torrential rain above 30mm over the course of several hours around the time of the damage.  
So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have to consider whether Accredited have decided the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision in doing so. 
I am sorry that Mr S finds himself in this situation, with a bill for repairs to the roof; I 
understand that it must be very worrying for him.
However having considered the evidence carefully I havent upheld Mr Ss complaint, and Ill 
explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. In order for there to 
be a valid claim under a buildings insurance policy, the damage must have occurred as a 
result of an insured peril. These perils, or events, are specified in every policy and include 
reasons such as theft, fire, and storm damage. If the damage being claimed for cant be said 
to be as a result of one of these perils, then there can be no valid claim from the start. 
The policy documents form part of the insurance contract and sets out what is and isnt 
covered. So, my starting point is the policy which sets out a list of circumstances covered.  
The policy covers loss or damage to his property caused by fire, smoke, explosion, lightning, 
earthquake, food, storm, and escape of water, amongst other things. 
Storm
Accredited says the damage to Mr Ss roof isnt covered by his policy since there is no 
evidence the damage was caused by a storm. 
The policy covers loss or damage caused by a storm which is defined as follows; 
A period of violent weather defined as;
a. A gale of Force 10 or above reaching wind speeds of at least 55mph; or
b. Torrential rain that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; or 
c. Snow that falls to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours; or
d. Hail so severe that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
To consider a claim under the storm section of the policy I would expect to see heavy rain 
that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour. Having reviewed the information provided Im 
satisfied that there was heavy rain in the location of Mr Ss house in October. But to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint Id need to be persuaded that this rain was torrential for the purposes of 
the claim, and that it was the main cause of the damage to Mr Ss roof. And having reviewed 
everything carefully I dont think the conditions at the time meet the definition. 
Mr S has sent various links to online articles about the weather conditions at the time in 
October, but these arent specific to his postcode area and are not persuasive of a storm 
where his house is situated. But even if I accepted there were storm conditions, that alone is 
not enough to demonstrate the damage was caused by the storm to his roof. 
Validating the claim
In addition to there being storm conditions at the time of the damage Mr S would also need to show that the damage was caused by that storm. What is apparent in Mr Ss complaint is 
that there is little evidence of the damage to the roof. 
Mr S contacted a roofer to inspect the damage and agreed for the repairs to be carried out 
the following day. If, as Mr S says, water was leaking through the roof, I can understand why 
hed want to repair the damage quickly. That being said, Ive not seen any photos or 
contemporaneous report from the contractors who carried out the repair. 
The main evidence Mr S provides about the damage is from the roofing company who 
carried out the repairs to his roof. The contractor explained the likely cause of the damage 
was a falling block. He also said there was a water leak caused by storm.  However his 
opinion isnt based on any weather data detailing the rainfall or wind speeds at the time of 
the damage. I dont find the report persuasive about its reliability or accuracy on the issue of 
the extent of damage or the cause. And while it is possible the damage was due to the 
weather at the time, the policy says, Damage caused by normal weather conditions is not 
covered. 
Since Mr S undertook the repairs to his roof Accredited were unable to inspect the damage 
and validate the claim. I know Mr S has said he couldnt risk allowing the damage to get any 
worse by leaving the repair and I empathise with the position he was in. But insurers are 
entitled to investigate and validate any claim they receive and consider it against policy 
terms. And Accredited werent able to do this and so it made a decision based on the 
evidence it had at the time. 
Falling objects 
The policy says it will cover loss or damage caused by, falling telegraph poles, lamp posts, 
fixed aerials, satellite dishes, fixed solar panels and masts. 
Mr S says a falling block caused the damage. But since falling block isnt named in the terms 
and conditions it isnt covered by the policy. I know Mr S thinks this is unfair but an insurer is 
allowed to decide what risks they are prepared to cover. Buildings insurance policies dont 
cover every eventuality. So I cant say Accredited were wrong to decline the claim on that 
basis.
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr S who has had to pay a significant amount of 
money to repair his roof. But having considered everything I dont think Accredited has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Im satisfied Accredited assessed the claim fairly. It considered the 
points Mr S raised and the evidence provided against the policy terms to reach a decision 
about the claims validity. It follows that Im unable to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman