DRN-4459741
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with a 
claim he made on his motor insurance policy following an accident. He says his car was 
further damaged during the repair process and wants RSA to reimburse him for the cost of 
repairing the same. 
RSA is the underwriter of this policy, i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
this decision, and reference to RSA includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr M had comprehensive car insurance with RSA. 
In April 2022 Mr Ms wife was driving the car and hit a metal bollard at low speed which 
damaged the nearside front door and adjacent front wing. Mr M says there was no damage 
to any other property, or personal injury. 
Mr M reported the matter to the insurer. He was told the repairer would contact him within 24 
hours, and a replacement car would be supplied. 
Mr M car was collected in May 2022 and returned the following month. The repair appeared 
satisfactory. Mr M noted the whole nearside of the car had been repaired, including damage 
to the rear wing which wasnt subject to the claim. 
When Mr M went to move his car into the garage he saw the service warning lights were 
displayed for automatic braking system (ABS), automatic stability control, and regenerative 
braking system. He says the warning lights werent on when the car was collected by the 
repairer. 
Mr M contacted RSA immediately to let them know so the delivery driver returned and took 
the car back to the repairing garage. Mr M wasnt supplied with a replacement vehicle. Mr M 
says the car was returned on the same day and he was told the service warnings were due 
to wear and tear and therefore not the responsibility of RSA. 
Mr M serviced his car in the correct timescales for doing so, and therefore he didnt think the 
tests carried out by the garage were correct. He made numerous calls to RSA and was told 
to obtain his own diagnosis by an independent garage. So Mr M arranged this. The 
diagnostic test showed there was a lack of continuity from a sensor on the rear nearside 
wheel.  
Mr M says it was agreed the car could be repaired by his own garage, but then he was told 
the original repairer wanted to inspect the car. So he agreed for the car to go back to the 
original garage on the basis he would be present throughout the inspection. 
Mr M says he didnt hear anything from the garage so he made his own arrangements to get 
the car repaired on 12 July 2022. Mr Ms garage found some further damage; the interior 
trim from the rear nearside had been removed. He says a lead from the rear nearside wheel 
sensor was displaced and its protective grommet pulled out of a bulkhead, a drainpipe from 
the sunroof to an exit at the rear underside was left loose and unconnected, and insulation 
material had been removed from a side panel and left loose in the void. There appeared to 
be damage to the pipes caused by a lifting or jacking operation, but this damage wasnt 
present when the car had been serviced in February 2022.  Mr M reported the matter to RSA 
and advised he would wait until 25 July 2022 to carry out the repairs in order to give RSA an 
opportunity to inspect it. Mr M says he didnt hear from RSA so proceeded with the repairs.
Mr M says the car was drivable but without operating warning lights for 34 days. The car was 
unavailable when it was undergoing repair for 17 days. It took four journeys to the repairer, 
two requiring two cars; and this was a total of 90 miles. It cost Mr M £126 for the diagnostic, 
£1685 for the repair, and he made around 30 telephone calls and sent at least 23 emails 
trying to resolve the matter. 
Mr M wants RSA to refund him £1,841.71 and to compensate him for the journeys made, 
loss of amenity and for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. So he complained. 
RSA acknowledged its repairers communication had been poor on occasion and could 
have been more proactive. RSA referred the information and evidence regarding the 
damage to the heater pipes and ABS sensor to its engineer who said both areas of damage 
are unrelated to the original damage or the repairs carried out. RSA said it obtained an 
opinion from an independent engineer who said the damage to the heater pipes and ABS 
sensor were unrelated to the accident or the repairs. And so it wouldnt reimburse any of the 
costs for the repairs carried out. RSA awarded Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, together with £30.71 for the cleaning charge Mr M had to pay. Mr M didnt agree 
with RSAs response and so referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things for him. She said she didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show the damage to Mr Ms car was caused by the repairs. She agreed 
with the level of compensation offered and for Mr M being reimbursed the cleaning charge. 
Mr M didnt agree with the outcome. He said there was no warning light showing when the 
car was collected. He said the driver who came to collect his vehicle took a number of 
photographs of the car. He said he cannot say how the damage was caused the 
circumstances taken together indicate that some mishap occurred whilst the car was with the 
repairer. Our investigator looked at things again and upheld the complaint. She said RSA 
should reimburse Mr M for the repairs carried out, the cost of the diagnostic test, and pay 
him £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
RSA didnt agree. Our investigator looked into things again. She said the Audatex report 
showed one fault with the RLS light sensor in May 2022, and then a fault in relation to the 
ABS system on 1 June 2023. The car was then returned to Mr M. And so she said RSA 
should pay the invoice for repairs to the ABS sensor and heater pipes, £30.71 cleaning 
charge for hire car, £126 for diagnostic testing plus £300 for distress and inconvenience. 
RSA didnt provide any comments to the final view and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain 
why. Although Ive read and considered the evidence provided to me, Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
I can see this has been a stressful experience for Mr M and he feels very strongly that RSA 
has treated him unfairly. RSA have accepted there were issues with the service Mr M 
received and offered £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, our service cant 
determine how the damage occurred. Im not a mechanic or an engineer but I dont have to 
be to decide this case. Instead what we look at is the information the insurance company 
relied on to make its decision and whether it treated the customer fairly in doing so. 
Mr M is covered for accidental damage. The policy says if there is accidental damage it will 
repair the damage or pay the amount of loss or damage.  And that is exactly whats 
happened here. 
So, Ive considered what each party has provided. RSA has provided a report from an 
independent engineer dated 28 November 2022. The report was undertaken following an 
image inspection. It says, it would appear the vehicle has sustained moderate bodywork 
damage to the left side of the vehicle. Images provided after the repairs have been carried 
out clearly show two heater pipes damaged and pierced along with the retaining clip fully 
dislodged from its locating stud on the underside of the vehicle. I am of the opinion that the 
vehicle may have encountered some underside damage not related to the claim on notice. 
RSA said it provided the information and evidence regarding the heater pipes and the ABS 
sensor to its engineers. The engineer said both the areas of damage were unrelated to the 
original damage or the repairs the repairer carried out. 
And so, I can see why RSA relied on this evidence to conclude the issues with Mr Ms car 
werent related to the repairs that were carried out. But the report of 28 November 2022 is 
based on images and other evidence provided to the engineer. Similarly the testimony from 
RSAs engineer is based on information provided by RSA. 
Having reviewed the Audatex report it shows that when the car first went into the garage the 
diagnostic test showed there was no issue with the ABS. Following the repairs a further 
diagnostic test showed an issue with the ABS. The Audatex report is independent and 
contemporaneous. And I havent seen a reasonable or plausible explanation as to why this 
might be the case. 
There is testimony that the repairer saw the warning light showed but put it down to wear 
and tear but didnt investigate further. And I would have expected it to. Mr M reported the 
light as soon as the car had been delivered to him. So the repairer had an opportunity to 
investigate and repair the issue at that stage. But I cant see that it did this. 
RSA say they didnt carry out any repairs that would impact the ABS sensor or the heater 
pipes. But the evidence shows the damage was likely to have been caused while the vehicle 
was with the repairer. And I havent seen any evidence that disputes this. 
So, taking a pragmatic view of the complaint and based on the information thats been 
presented, there is evidence there was no warning light showing when the car was taken to 
the garage, and evidence the light was showing after the repair was completed. I think, on balance, its more likely than not that the issue with the warning lights occurred while the car 
was being repaired. 
So, for the reasons explained above Im upholding this complaint and have set out below 
what RSA need to do to put things right. 
Putting things right
Given the conclusions Ive reached, as set out above, I think RSA should;
Reimburse the invoice for repairs of £1,685 
Add 8% yearly simple interest from the date the invoice was paid to the date RSA 
settle this matter
Pay £30.71 cleaning charge if not already done so. If RSA hasnt paid it should add 
8% yearly simple interest from the date it was paid to the date RSA settle this matter. 
£126 for the diagnostic test 
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to resolve this matter by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman