DRN-3683573
The complaint
Mrs E complains about advice she received from Sesame Limited about a whole of life policy 
taken out in 2002.
Mrs E is being represented in her complaint by a family member. For ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mrs E. 
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs E spoke with Sesame and took out a whole of life policy. At that time the 
policy was held jointly with Mr E who has since sadly passed away. So the policy is now in 
the sole name of Mrs E.
In late 2020 Mrs E complained to Sesame after receiving a policy review letter from the 
product provider saying the premiums would be increasing and the sum assured would be 
reducing. 
Sesame looked into the sale of the policy and said that the recommendation was appropriate 
as it met the requirements of Mr and Mrs E at the time. They made reference to the policy 
Technical Guide and said that made clear there would be reviews to the policy and gave 
information about the possible consequences of those reviews. Sesame said they werent 
responsible for the product provider using their commercial discretion to raise the premiums. 
Remaining unhappy Mrs E brought her complain to our service. One of our Investigators 
looked at everything presented by both parties and thought the policy was suitable. They 
acknowledged concerns raised in 2004 but overall said that Sesame couldnt have predicted 
how the policy would perform. 
Mrs E presented further information which our Investigator considered but since an 
agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs E that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been presented even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised some 
aspects of the complaint which reflects the informal nature of our service. But Im happy I 
understand the crux of the complaint which is about Mrs E being told about the possibility of 
large premium increases, and also about a letter from Sesame in 2004.  
The policy was sold in 2002 so unsurprisingly there is hardly any documentation from the 
time of the sale. In situations like this I need to come to a decision based on the balance of 
probabilities about what I think is most likely to have happened. 
What I do have from the time is a letter sent to Mrs E from the product provider after the 
policy was set up, and a Technical Guide.  
The letter after the sale from the policy provider in October 2002 explains the details of the 
policy including things like sum assured and premiums. It also gives estimates for growth 
using figures of 4%, 6% and 8%. The letter says These figures are only examples and are 
not guaranteed  they are not minimum or maximum amounts. What you will get back 
depends on how your investments grow  You could get back more or less than this. The 
figures used to predict growth were industry standards at the time. 
The Technical Guide provides a lot of information about the policy and how it works. It 
explains in several different places how both the sum assured and policy premiums can 
change at regular policy reviews.
There is also a letter from November 2004 from the advisor to Mr E. This came about after a 
telephone call from Mr E where he was worried about the cover reducing in future years. The 
letter says the level of cover is guaranteed not to change for 10 years  which is what 
happened. 
It goes on to say that provided there was an average growth of 6% (which as I explained 
above was an industry standard expectation) it was projected that the premiums and cover 
would remain the same for up to 36 years. This didnt turn out to be the case. And this didnt 
happen as the performance of the investment didnt match the projections from the time. 
The letter goes on to say - and I know this is an important complaint point  that there 
wouldnt be any nasty shocks with the plan. Unfortunately the most recent review has indeed 
been a nasty shock for Mrs E. 
I think the most important thing to keep in mind here is that its the product provider who 
manages the investment and who decides on the changing levels of premiums and cover; 
and not Sesame. At the time the policy was sold Sesame relied on the information provided 
by Mr and Mrs E as well as the product information and industry standards. 
The problems with the most recent review have predominantly come about because the 
growth of the underlying investment hasnt matched the expectation from the time of the 
sale. And this is at a time of the policy when the cost of cover is also rising. But taking 
everything into account I dont think that means the policy was mis-sold, and nor that 
Sesame made any errors. I dont think that in 2002 or 2004 Sesame couldve predicted the 
market conditions for some 20 years in the future. 
At the time the policy was sold I understand that Mr and Mrs E were looking for a joint life 
assurance policy with a sum payable on the last death. Thats how this policy works so I 
think, based on the limited available information, that the sale was suitable.
Mrs E has said that it was up to Sesame to highlight that the policy wasnt bullet proof. And 
looking at whats happened I can see why she says this. I dont have any documentation 
from the time so I cant say what was discussed, but I think the Technical Guide shows that 
changes to the level of cover and premiums were always going to be possible.
After carefully considering all the information Im satisfied the sale of the policy was suitable.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman