DRN-4254524
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
declined their claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt the term Lloyds includes reference to its agents and 
representatives in this final decision.
What happened
At the end of January 2022, a section of render fell from an external wall at the back of Mr 
and Mrs Ss property during storm conditions. They telephoned Lloyds to report the damage 
and Lloyds instructed agents to visit the property to assess whether the damage was 
covered by the relevant home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs S were convinced that the storm conditions had caused the damage and that 
there had been no pre-existing issues with the render. Mr S said the damaged area was 
approximately 1 foot by 4 foot and facia boards had also been damaged. Lloyds agreed that 
there had been violent storm force gusts in the area at the end of January 2022. It said that if 
it was found that the damage was caused by wear and tear, then this wouldnt be covered by 
the policy. It concluded that the damage had indeed been caused by wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs S complained that Lloyds had declined to cover the damage under the relevant 
policy as it considered that the storm had highlighted pre-existing issues. Lloyds maintained 
its decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ss claim. However, it paid Mr and Mrs S the sum of £350 
in compensation as it agreed that it had been responsible for certain service failures during 
the handling of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy about the outcome of their complaint to Lloyds and referred 
their complaint to this service. However, the relevant investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs 
Ss complaint. He didnt think that Lloyds had acted in an unfair or unreasonable way in 
declining the claim, and in paying compensation for service failures. He noted Lloyds view 
that the storm wasnt the main cause of damage and was caused by underlying issues. He 
appreciated Mr and Mrs Ss thoughts, but said he hadnt seen anything persuasive, such as 
another professional opinion, to say that Lloyds conclusions had been wrong.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy with the outcome of their complaint. They wanted Lloyds to 
settle their claim and also to increase its compensation payment. In the circumstances, the 
case has been referred to me to make a final, independent decision in my role as 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue to be determined is whether Lloyds acted in a fair and reasonable manner in 
its application of the policy terms and conditions when it declined Mr and Mrs Ss claim for 
damage to their property. The second issue to be determined is whether Lloyds acted in a 
fair and reasonable manner as to the amount of compensation paid for its acknowledged 
service failures. Ive concluded that Lloyds didnt act in an unfair and unreasonable manner 
in relation to either issue, and Ill explain why. In reaching this final decision, Ive considered 
the parties submissions as summarised below. I turn firstly to Mr and Mrs Ss submissions. 
Mr and Mrs S felt very strongly that Lloyds were wrong to say that the damage to their 
property was due to underlying issues. Mr S said that hed spoken to his appointed 
contractor who advised that his letter confirming that the damage was due to storm damage, 
together with his estimate, was sufficient for any insurance provider. Mr S made it clear that 
Lloyds agent had himself said that there is no definitive proof for the cause of damage. He 
was delighted that Lloyds surveyor had found no problems with the render at ground level 
and was happy and reassured that he found nothing wrong. Mr S said that he also agreed 
with Lloyds surveyor that it was unlikely that the original roughcasting used polymer bonding 
as a technique 50 years ago. Whilst polymer bonding may be an improvement, this didnt 
mean that the render was faulty. He said that in his housing estate, there were massive 3 
storey gable ends with 50+ years' old roughcasting which show no signs of deterioration.
Mr S explained that; following the laying of bricks 50 or so years ago, a scratch coat of 
cement had been applied to the wall and then scored whilst still wet. To this was then 
applied the harling chips. He said that this was, and still is, with the addition of polymer, 
standard practice and that the surveyor may not have appreciated differences in building 
regulations in different areas. He said that a second surveyor from the relevant area had 
made no mention of a problem in this regard. Mr S made the point that there were no signs 
of streaks, runs or staining on the exposed brickwork which would be expected if water had 
been present. He felt that Lloyds surveyor had muddied the issue by the introduction of 
comments about mould and lichen. He thought the contention that the water had washed the 
brickwork, to be highly questionable. 
As to the material which fell during the relevant incident, Mr S said that hed produced 
evidence that it was a wind of freakish strength that led to the collapse of a considerable 
amount of masonry, which fell entirely on Mr and Mrs Ss side of a wall which was shared 
with a neighbour. He said: It would take an extreme storm to shift such weighty masonry 
even to achieve a 60/40 or 70/30 split. But to achieve a 100% fall on my side clearly 
indicates a ferocity that probably occurs only once in 50 -100 years. He said that there had 
been coping in place before it was blown out by the storm and, according to Lloyds 
surveyor, would have provided shelter to the area immediately under it. 
Mr S said that the top of the wall was of a plastic-type material and therefore waterproof. The 
other two roughcast sides were undamaged despite also being saturated by wind-driven 
rain. Mr S considered that if they were in the same saturated state as it was alleged the front 
face was in, then they would also have detached and fallen. He thought: it was the sheer 
force of the freak blast that hit the front face that was the sole reason for its collapse. Mr S 
accepted there had been a historic small repair but said there was no evidence that this was 
faulty, as it was a professional repair. He pointed out that Lloyds agent described it as being 
stronger than the original materials and didnt attribute the damage to this previous repair. 
As to the fascia board, although not part of the claim, Mr S said that it ran the whole width of 
the house and was totally unprotected from the elements. It would have been subjected to 
the same wind force that hit the much narrower wall. It had been cleaned by a firm prior to 
the January storm and was intact at the time, with no sign of any issues. He considered that 
it was entirely possible for the fascia board to have been partially detached in the storm. Mr 
S said hed kept newspaper photographs of storm damage in the UK at the time, showing 
enormous trees blown onto cars and whole roofs ripped off. He made the point that if a whole roof could be ripped off a building, then it was probable that less robust fixtures such 
as fascia boards could suffer storm damage.
Mr and Mrs S pointed out in the strongest terms that Lloyds agents had made a mistake in 
referencing a non-existent chimney stack and guttering, and he also referred to a mis-
judgment in Lloyds initial on-site survey where the agent had referred to a repair to a 
neighbours wall. Mr S said that hed had to correct the agent as this wasnt the case. He 
added that if such a serious misjudgement could be made on an unconnected and separate 
wall, then did it not call into question his judgement on the storm damage wall? Mr and Mrs 
S therefore questioned the quality and competence of the surveying in this case. 
Mr and Mrs S were also very unhappy about the way in which Lloyds had responded at 
various points during the claims journey, and the journey had proved to be an extremely 
difficult. They felt that Lloyds responses had been selective, contradictory, inaccurate and 
had omitted key issues. Mr and Mrs S felt that in dealing with Lloyds agents, their concerns 
fell between two stools. Agents had failed to send a comprehensive, detailed, point by point 
reply, as promised, and this promised response still hadnt been received. They thought that 
as Lloyds had issued four final response letters, this exemplified its poor administration.
Mr and Mrs S were also unhappy about the many months it took for Lloyds to respond to 
them without explanation or apology, and failure to provide an update on progress, 
particularly in view of their age and health issues. They felt Lloyds had broken promises, for 
instance to send correspondence by first class recorded delivery. They thought that Lloyds 
had deceived them, ignored correspondence and telephone calls, distorted the truth, and 
twisted their words. Mr S felt that there was a clear and deliberate ploy by Lloyds to make 
him look unreasonable, whereas he said; the truth is exactly the opposite. In summary, Mr 
and Mrs S felt that Lloyds had provided a service which was unfit for purpose. 
In conclusion, Mr and Mrs S said that stress caused, and the impact on their mental well-
being, had been immense, and they referenced Lloyds duty of care to its customers.
I now turn to Lloyds submissions regarding this case. Lloyds didnt dispute that there were 
storm conditions at the date of loss. However, it considered that the damage wasnt 
consistent with a one-off storm event and that the weather conditions had instead highlighted 
a pre-existing issue. It said that the damage was consistent with age-related wear and tear, 
or a gradually operating cause. It considered that the render had fallen as it had already de-
bonded and that the de-bonding was due to the render adhesion gradually breaking down 
by the accumulation of rain and frost in such an exposed position. This would have occurred 
over a prolonged period of time. It stated that the policy didnt provide cover in such cases. It 
then referred to relevant provisions of the policy booklet and the opinions of its specialists. 
Lloyds said that its structural expert had examined the exposed wall which showed that the 
brickwork hadnt been keyed to ensure effective adherence of the render to a vertical 
surface. It said that the render bond would break down over time, especially in an exposed 
position where the wall is regularly wet or where it is exposed to frost. Moisture will make 
render unsound. Wind will not. It said that the area of wall was open to rain on four sides 
and couldnt be more exposed. It added that rainfall would hit each face, hit the top of the 
wall, and would drain down behind the render surface. Whilst the condition of the render at 
the bottom of the wall may have been good, this couldnt be compared to the exposed top. 
Lloyds also referred to a previous repair and a difference in render which evidenced that 
other areas of render had previously failed. It said that the failing is either a total detachment 
of the render and the application of a new different (non- matching) render or it is the de-
bonding of the outer render revealing the darker base coat. It also considered that it might 
be a combination of two. It referred to a dark shadow line under the edge of the existing render which it said evidenced loose render directly above the exposed brick work. It said 
this meant that the render wasnt fully adhered to the wall, even where it remained in place. 
Lloyds expert remained of the view that the render wasnt keyed in effectively to the 
masonry and that, over time ,water running behind the render had gradually affected the 
bond to the extent where the render has become detached and other areas of render have 
become unsound. The structural expert originally thought there was no coping, but then 
advised that if coping was present, it wouldnt be effective in keeping the wall beneath it dry. 
Whilst the area immediately under the coping would be sheltered, he considered it would still 
be saturated by wind-driven rain and exposed to weathering, particularly where the render 
had become detached.
The structural expert also thought that the absence of mould or lichen didnt mean that the 
brickwork was dry or unaffected long term by water penetration. He thought that water 
percolating behind a surface was likely to give the masonry a clean appearance. In 
addition, Lloyds said that mould was usually encountered in internal spaces. As to the fascia 
board, it noted that the storm-force wind had either removed retaining screws or had caused 
the board to burst through the screw heads. From its review of the relevant photographs and 
the position of the fascia board set back from the wall, it considered that this wouldnt have 
happened, unless there was already an underlying issue. Lloyds concluded that it had 
assessed the claim numerous times but had reached the same outcome each time. 
As to the service issues raised by Mr and Mrs S, Lloyds agreed that it had been responsible 
for certain service failures. It agreed that there had been a lack of communication and lack of 
response on occasion, which had caused unnecessary stress for Mr and Mrs S. In particular, 
it accepted that its agents had failed on numerous occasions to answer Mr Ss questions. It 
apologised to Mr and Mrs S and paid £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience in 
this respect.
Lloyds also provided its case-notes regarding this matter. These recorded that Mr S had 
been intending to obtain a cause of damage report from his appointed contractor, which he 
would send to Lloyds agent in order that it could reconsider his claim. It appears that the 
contractor was unwilling to produce another document but was happy for Lloyds to contact 
him to discuss his findings. The notes also show that Mr S called Lloyds to request the 
original final response letter three times, and was also promised call backs and didnt receive 
them. Lloyds acknowledged that this caused Mr and Mrs S a great deal of stress.
Finally, Ive received two reports from Lloyds agents. The first is dated February 2022 and 
states: There is no one off storm damage to the render. The damage noted is consistent 
with age related wear and tear/gradually operating cause, highlighted by the recent weather 
conditions. There is no internal damage. The claim has been repudiated and the policyholder 
reluctantly accepted our findings. The second report identifies sections of render which 
have failed before. It noted that this was significant because it was only a short distance 
from the defect now revealed. 
Ive carefully considered all the above evidence and submissions. The starting point for 
determining cases of this nature is the wording of the policys terms and conditions, as the 
wording forms the basis of the contract between the customer and the insurer. In this case 
the policy does cover storm damage in principle. The policy also underlines what is not 
insured under the policy, and this is the crux of the matter in this case. A gradually operating 
cause is not insured, and this includes decay or decomposition. In addition, Wear and tear 
is not insured, and this is defined as damage that naturally and inevitably occurs as a result 
of normal wear or ageing. Examples of wear and tear are given and include weathering 
which may cause cracking, and damage due to exposure to the weather and elements.In considering storm damage, our service has a three-step approach. We firstly consider 
whether storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage was said to have 
happened. In this case, both parties accept that a storm occurred, and Lloyds established 
that violent wind gusts of 69 mph had been recorded for the relevant area at the end of 
January 2022. I therefore conclude that there were storm conditions at the relevant time. 
The second question for determination is whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. Clearly, storm damage can cause roof and structural 
damage to property. Whilst it would be unusual for secure render to be blown off in violent 
storms, I consider that a combination of factors could feasibly lead to such damage.
The third and key question for determination is whether in this case the storm conditions 
were the main, or predominant, cause of the damage to Mr and Mrs Ss property. In making 
this determination, the evidence of experts on behalf of each party is crucial. Unfortunately, 
Mr Ss surveyor or contractor didnt produce a cause of damage report as Lloyds had 
requested at the outset. He provided an estimate, and also, a letter to confirm that the 
damage had been caused by storm conditions. He considered that this would be sufficient 
for any insurer. However, this is not the case. Its expected that an assertion as to the cause 
of damage is backed up with analysis, explanation, and evidence by the relevant expert. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs S contractor didnt provide this and no further, or alternative 
expert report has been produced by Mr and Mrs S.
The reports produced by Lloyds agents did provide a detailed analysis. I agree with Mr S 
that the reports appear to be flawed in certain respects, and I accept his evidence in relation 
to the errors made. I have accordingly placed less wait upon the reports than would 
otherwise be the case. In the absence of contrary evidence, the reports are nevertheless 
persuasive in relation to the key issues, particularly when considered in conjunction with the 
available photographic evidence. They refer to an area of previously replaced render, close 
to the area of render which fell. This isnt disputed by Mr and Mrs S. Im persuaded that this 
indicates previous failure of render. Im therefore satisfied on the balance of probabilities, 
that there were signs of pre-existing deterioration to the render.
I acknowledge Mr Ss arguments about different methodologies for keying in and that the 
original method may well have been adequate at the time. Nevertheless, Mr S has also 
conceded that the render may well be over 50 years old. I consider that, on the balance of 
probabilities, this supports the view that the render was showing signs of wear and tear. I 
also note that the wall in question was in an exposed area and was likely to have been 
affected by weather over a period of many years. I find the relevant Lloyds report persuasive 
in its conclusion that the de-bonding happened because the render adhesion gradually 
broke down due to rain and frost in such an exposed position.  
In conclusion, I consider that the render was old and not in the best condition and was 
reaching the end of its life. As to the predominant reason for the damage, storm conditions 
undoubtedly played a part in the render collapsing from the wall. However, on the balance of 
probabilities, Im satisfied that the gradual de-bonding, deterioration and wear and tear of the 
render and adhesion to the wall was the main and dominant cause of the damage. I consider 
that the storm winds simply highlighted this pre-existing issue, and the render was blown off 
as it was no longer secure. As such, I cant say that Lloyds acted in an unfair or 
unreasonable manner in declining the claim.
As to the service failures experienced by Mr and Mrs S, I note that these took place following 
Lloyds initial decision to decline their claim, due to its conclusion that the predominant case 
of the damage was wear and tear. Whilst I recognise that Lloyds issued a number of final 
response letters, its conclusion on the substantive issue has been consistent throughout. I consider that this was a reasonable conclusion, and that Lloyds had made efforts to respond 
to Mr Ss continued correspondence and disagreement with the decision. Lloyds accepted 
that it hadnt responded as promised, and that there were delays in communication. In 
accordance with our published guidance, Im therefore satisfied that Lloyds offer of £350 
compensation in total was a fair offer for the type of administrative failures identified and for 
the period in question, bearing in mind that Ive determined that Lloyds hadnt acted in an 
unfair or unreasonable manner in relation to the substantive issue.
.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S will be extremely disappointed by this final decision, as they 
feel so strongly that Lloyds shouldnt have declined their claim. The communication failures 
following Lloyds decision will have exacerbated their disappointment. Mr S clearly expended 
a great deal of time and effort in communicating his detailed complaint to Lloyds and to this 
service. I also appreciate that Mr S is adamant that the predominant cause of the render 
collapse was due to storm conditions, and that any contrary view would be unfair and 
unreasonable. However, my final independent decision is based upon the evidence 
presented by the parties. I note that the parties were given the opportunity to present further 
evidence should they so wish following issue of the investigators view.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that in this case, the facts and evidence demonstrate on the 
balance of probabilities that the predominant cause of damage here was the underlying state 
and deterioration of the renders binding to the wall. In the circumstances, I cant say that 
Lloyds has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in declining Mr and Mrs Ss claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and I dont require 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do any more in response to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman