DRN-1395992
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a car acquired with finance from Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
(SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2018 Mrs C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with SMF.
Mrs C experienced some issues with the car and the supplying dealer carried out repairs in 
May 2018.IN August 2018, Mrs C experienced further issues with the car which she thought 
were related to the previous repairs. She reported the issues to SMF who asked Mrs C to 
provide further information. Mrs C provided a report from an engineer which said the head 
gasket had failed.
SMF arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The report concluded that there 
were faults but that the issues werent related to the previous repairs and wouldnt have 
been present at the point of supply.
Based on the independent report, SMF issued a final response and said it wasnt 
responsible for repairing the car.
Mrs C remained unhappy. She feels that the current issues relate to a failed repair. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the fault with the car related to a failed repair, or that there was a fault with the car at the 
point of supply.
Mrs C didnt agree. She didnt think the independent inspection had been carried out 
properly and said the car had broken down on several occasions since shed acquired it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because SMF supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied term that 
it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
including, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would 
expect a second hand car, such as that supplied to Mrs C, to have a degree of wear and tear 
and to require repair more often than a brand new car.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed that the fault was present at the point of supply. The business sis allowed one 
opportunity to fix the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car.
In this case, I can see that Mrs c experienced issues within the first 6 months and that 
repairs were carried out to the water pump, the thermostat housing and the cooling system.
Mrs C believes that these repairs  werent successful because she experienced further 
issues with the car in August 2018 which she was told related to the head gasket.
Ive looked at the independent inspection report dated September 2018 to decide whether 
theres a connection between the faults which occurred in August 2018 and the faults which 
were repaired in March 2018. The independent report was unable to confirm evidence of a 
failed head gasket. Fault codes were found which the engineer said had been triggered by 
an engine sensor. When these fault codes were cleared, the cars performance was found to 
return to normal. The engineer concluded that the issues identified during the inspection 
werent related to the previous repairs , and said the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
I appreciate that Mrs C feels strongly that the current issues with the car are related to the 
previous repairs. But the independent inspection doesnt support this. I can see that Mrs C 
ha covered around 14,500 miles since taking possession of the car. If there had been a fault 
with the car at the point of supply I dont think she would have been able to cover this 
amount of mileage over a period of around 8 months without the fault presenting itself 
sooner.
On balance, and taking the available evidence into account, Im unable to say that the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply or that the faults found in August 2018 
were related to unsuccessful repairs. I think its more likely that the current issues with the 
car are due to general wear and tear.
I appreciate that Mrs C has continued to experience issues with the car. Shes provided 
evidence of fault codes but theres no evidence that these issues were present or developing 
at the point of supply, or that they have arisen as a result of the previous repairs.
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman