DRN-4451991
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car he acquired which was financed by a hire purchase agreement 
with JBR Capital Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr J entered into a hire purchase agreement with JBR Capital Limited 
(JBR) for a car. The car was six years old when Mr J acquired it, had a cash price of 
£310,000 and had covered around 3,500 miles. Mr J says there were a number of faults 
identified with the car, but it was agreed the dealership would fix those before he took 
possession of it.
Mr J says he booked the car in for a full health and mileage check at a specialist garage on 
17 March 2022, but this was cancelled because the battery/command display wasnt turning 
on. Mr J says that once these faults were fixed, further faults were identified, and the 
dealership from where he acquired the car agreed to fix them.
The car was then inspected by a third-party garage on 4 May 2022 with the following issues 
identified:
Front shock absorbers were leaking and needed replacing
Air conditioning needed servicing
Owner manual wasnt found in the car and tool kit was missing
Intermittent faults logged for the exhaust temperature sensors, and replacement of all 
sensors advised 
New wipers were needed 
Top-up oil was missing, and fuel filler cap strap was broken 
Near side right wheel arch trim was damaged and needed replacing
All four tyres showed signs of aging and cracking and needed replacing
The third-party quoted just over £32,000 for all the above work to be carried out.
Mr J complained to JBR as he was unhappy with the quality of the car when he acquired it 
and that it still required repairs, which he asked JBR to arrange and pay for. Mr J also asked 
JBR to reimburse him with extra travel costs hed incurred when he hadnt been able to use 
the car. JBR agreed to refund the travel costs and to pay Mr J £150 for distress and 
inconvenience. However, they said they were unable to conclude their investigation because 
Mr J had authorised a third party to settle the hire purchase agreement, and the third party 
had taken on the responsibility for the faults and repairs as a result.
Mr J didnt agree and referred his complaint to us. Our investigator recommended that it be 
upheld. She said she was satisfied the car was faulty when supplied and there were faults 
that still needed to be repaired. She also said it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr J to 
experience these issues so soon after the supply of the car bearing in mind this was a luxury 
car that came with a high price.
Our investigator felt the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and recommended that JBR cover 
the repair costs identified by the third-party garage or instruct a specialist to complete the 
repairs. And she recommended that JBR pay Mr J £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Since then, Mr J has arranged to have the car repaired and has sold it. He has recently 
clarified that he would like the repairs costs refunded along with the extra travel costs that 
JBR agreed to refund. Mr J also asked for a refund of an inspection report carried out and for 
two monthly repayments made to JBR to be refunded for the time he wasnt able to use the 
car. He hasnt asked for any further costs to be refunded.
JBR doesnt agree they are liable for any costs other than the extra travel costs they 
originally agreed to refund. Theyve made several points to support their position, namely:
Mr J agreed to purchase an extended warranty which covered repairs to the shock 
absorbers, as part of the deal to acquire the car from the dealership.
Mr J arranged a sale and return agreement with a third-party after hed settled the 
finance agreement and set the price of the car for £70,000 above the cash price 
agreed when he originally acquired it. As such, they dont agree the car was faulty, or 
that Mr J made a loss as the third-party wouldnt have agreed to buy the car if it was 
in the condition as Mr J had described.
The car passed its MOT in July 2022 with no advisories listed for shock absorbers. 
The car wasnt supplied with an owners handbook, tool kit or top up oil because 
these werent items that were always available with second-hand cars. And Mr J 
didnt make anyone aware of the importance of these in deciding whether he wanted 
to go ahead with the deal.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 October 2023, in which I said the following and which 
forms part of my final decision:
Its clear the position on this complaint has changed since it was originally brought to us by 
Mr J. He has sold the car and so no longer requires it to be repaired.
I will though set out the key considerations involved as regards liability just so it is clear for 
all parties.
This complaint is about a regulated hire purchase agreement. We can consider complaints 
against the supplier  JBR - about the quality of goods under this type of arrangement.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says that when Mr J got 
the car, the supplier had a responsibility to make sure it was of satisfactory quality. 
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account things 
like the cars age, price, mileage, description and other relevant factors.
Its important to note in this case that the car Mr J acquired was from a premium brand and 
cost £310,000. Im satisfied this means a reasonable person would have very high 
expectations for the quality of the car. I think they would expect it to be in very good 
condition and be free from even minor defects.
JBR said the third-party who settled the hire purchase agreement on Mr Js behalf took on 
the liability for the quality of the car and any required repairs at that point. I dont though 
agree. As Ive set out above, the liability for the quality of the car rested with the supplier at the time Mr J acquired it, namely JBR. Ive not seen any evidence that the third-party agreed 
to settle the agreement on proviso that they took on that liability, nor have I seen that Mr J 
arranged the settlement on that basis.
So, my first consideration is whether or not the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. What then results from that will be determined by me on a fair and reasonable 
basis.
Having considered the above points around expectations of the car, I find the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Ive seen a copy of the report I referred to in the 
what happened section of this decision, and the faults that were identified. There were what 
I consider to be serious faults with the cars shock absorbers and the exhaust temperature 
sensors. I dont think a reasonable person would expect such serious faults to be present in 
a car of such prestige, that had covered relatively low mileage and that had such a high cash 
price attached. I also think it wouldnt be reasonable to expect the fuel strap to be broken, 
the wipers to need replacing and the arch trim to be damaged.
I understand the exhaust temperature sensors were fixed shortly after the report was 
commissioned. Mr J maintains though that the shock absorbers werent fixed until recently 
when he arranged to sell the car.
JBR feels the shock absorbers were either repaired at no cost to Mr J or that he hasnt 
shown hes suffered a loss because of this. And theyve said Mr J specifically bought an 
extended warranty which covered repairs to shock absorbers.
Mr J has maintained throughout this complaint that he didnt purchase a warranty that would 
cover repairs to the shock absorbers. Ive not seen anything persuasive to the contrary. In 
fact, Mr J has recently sent us a copy of an invoice for works carried out by a third-party 
garage to the car in May 2023 (which I can send to JBR if they wish to see it). This set out 
the work as follows:
Carry out replacement of both front shock absorbers due to them heavily leaking - 
£18,265.25 
Aircon gas removal and re-gassing - £120 
Replace fuel cap due to tie being broken - £245 
Replace front wipers - £55 
Replace broken arch liner on near side right - £422
Mr J has sent me evidence that he paid for this work to be completed. To my mind, it 
wouldnt have made much sense for Mr J to have purchased an extended warranty to cover 
repairs to the shock absorbers only to then pay out to have those repairs completed. Ive 
also seen that the work carried out recently was to the parts of the car that the report from 
May 2022 also identified as needing to be repaired. Although JBR has mentioned that Mr J 
advertised the car as being well above its purchase price at some point after he acquired it, 
that hasnt been borne out with compelling evidence and is based solely from what I can see 
on comments made by the dealership from where Mr J acquired the car. 
There is much more compelling evidence that faults identified very shortly after Mr J 
acquired the car were still there and needed repairing.
It seems to me that the faults that were identified shortly after Mr J acquired the car were still 
present in May 2023. Ive already set out above that it wouldnt be reasonable for someone 
to expect these faults to occur so soon after acquiring the car, and that, in my view, meant 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. I think therefore it would be fair and reasonable for JBR 
to reimburse Mr J with the cost of the repairs carried out in May 2023. That will include the cost to service the air-conditioning which I think arguably might have been something that  
Mr J could have been expected to pay bearing in mind thats a fairly standard issue expected 
with most cars. However, Mr J has said he doesnt want any storage costs or transportation 
costs in taking the car to be repaired refunded, in an attempt to resolve this dispute. I think 
an additional refund for the air-conditioning wouldnt be unreasonable in view of this.
I also think that JBR should pay Mr J for the taxi costs he incurred, which they already 
agreed to pay. And that they should refund Mr J the cost of the inspection report from March 
2022 that initially identified all of the issues with the car, and to pay interest on that amount. 
It wouldnt be fair for Mr J to pay for a report that showed faults that, in my view, werent his 
liability to repair.
I note Mr J would like two monthly payments refunded to him when he was unable to use the 
car. I cant though be sure that Mr J wasnt able to use the car during that period. I say this 
noting that Mr J mentioned to us in July 2022 that the cars mileage was just over 4,500 
compared to the mileage being around 3,500 when it was acquired a few months prior. So, 
at this point, I dont intend to ask JBR to refund this. I do though think this matter has caused 
Mr J distress and inconvenience. While JBR offered him £150 for this, this dispute has 
continued for some time after that offer which I think has caused Mr J further inconvenience. 
I think it fair that JBR pays a total of £300 for this.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. JBR Capital Limited should:  
Refund Mr J £22,928.70 for the cost of repairs to the car; 
Refund Mr J £799 for the inspection report carried out on 30 March 2022. Interest of 
8% simple per annum should be added from that date to the date of settlement;
Refund Mr J his taxi costs of £72.78, if they havent already done so; and 
Pay Mr J £300 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
Mr J replied saying he was happy with my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. 
JBR asked for a copy of the invoice from the third-party garage from May 2023 which we 
provided to them. They subsequently replied to say they didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. 
JBR said it was important to note that the car was used and had covered 3,594 miles at the 
time Mr J acquired it and so it wasnt reasonable for him to expect it be in impeccable 
condition. They also sent a copy of an e-mail from a third-party which said that shock 
absorbers were a covered item under the terms of the warranty on the vehicle at the time in 
question. 
JBR also said they were concerned about the plausibility of what Mr J has said to us about 
his complaint and mentioned there was no proof that work shown in the third-party invoice 
from May 2023 had been completed. They said there was a six-to-nine-month lead time for 
shock absorbers so were curious to know how Mr J and the garage had sourced these. And 
they didnt know why Mr J would authorise a non-franchised dealer to replace parts on the 
vehicle when he had been insistent that the manufacturer provide him with a warranty.  JBR also mentioned that Mr J decided to sell the vehicle while they were considering 
arranging an independent inspection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I take JBRs point about the vehicle being used. However, bearing in mind the price and the 
fact it was a luxury brand, I still think a reasonable person would have fairly high 
expectations for it. I certainly dont think it would be reasonable to expect faults with the 
shock absorbers and the exhaust temperature sensors to be apparent so soon after 
acquisition. 
It would make little sense for Mr J to have paid for the shock absorbers to be replaced if they 
didnt need replacing and Ive seen credible evidence that the faults were there in the form of 
the invoice from May 2023. I think it unlikely that further, unrelated faults with the shock 
absorbers would have appeared before the invoice was compiled. It seems more likely that 
the faults that were shown to be there in the reports from soon after Mr J acquired the car 
were still present. 
I realise JBR strongly feel that the shock absorbers were covered under warranty. Mr J has 
maintained throughout that no such cover existed. Essentially, I have both sides saying 
different things. Ive not seen sufficient compelling evidence that Mr Js position on this was 
wrong to make me think I should find differently on this though. I accept its possible that 
what JBR is saying is correct. However, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory, as it is here, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances. And that is what Ive done here. 
Ive seen evidence in the form of a HPI check that the current keeper of the vehicle changed 
at the start of June 2023. So, it seems to me that Mr J sold the vehicle after the May invoice 
and after he says the vehicle was repaired. I think it likely then that the work to the shock 
absorbers was carried out before then. Ive noted JBRs comments about lead times, but Ive 
not seen much in the way of evidence of this to the extent that it was unlikely the work was 
carried out.  And despite what JBR says about Mr Js testimony, Ive not seen any obvious 
weakness or contradiction in this. 
Overall, Ive not been persuaded that my provisional decision or intended direction to JBR 
should change. So, for the reasons given in this decision and in my provisional decision, I 
will be upholding this complaint. 
Putting things right
JBR Capital Limited should:  
Refund Mr J £22,928.70 for the cost of repairs to the car; 
Refund Mr J £799 for the inspection report carried out on 30 March 2022. Interest of 
8% simple per annum should be added from that date to the date of settlement;
Refund Mr J his taxi costs of £72.78, if they havent already done so; and 
Pay Mr J £300 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct JBR Capital Limited to take the action Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman