DRN-3133350
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently, Mrs and Mr L held with Barclays 
Bank UK Plc. They think Barclays mis-sold (and then mis-handled) the mortgage, and 
then turned them down for a further advance after having promised it would be granted. 
Mrs and Mr L ended up re-mortgaging to another lender to get the extra money they 
wanted, but this meant paying an early repayment charge (ERC) to Barclays. 
Mrs and Mr L think the ERC should be refunded.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont be 
repeating all the details here. Our decisions are published and its important that I dont 
include any information that might result in Mrs and Mr L being identified. Instead Ill give a 
brief summary in my own words (and rounding the figures) and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Mrs and Mr L already had a mortgage with Barclays, taken out in 2014, when they 
approached it in late 2018 about taking out a bigger mortgage to move house. The existing 
mortgage was for around £75,000, and was on a fixed rate due to end on 31 December 
2018; Mr and Mrs L wanted to borrow £150,000 for the house move, and at that stage 
anticipated the move happening before 31 December 2018. To avoid paying an ERC on 
repaying the existing mortgage during the fixed rate period, Barclays recommended 
Mrs and Mr L port the existing fixed rate product to the new mortgage, and then take a 
five-year fixed rate product on the extra borrowing.
Unfortunately, the move was delayed until early 2019 due to system problems at Barclays. In 
the meantime, the fixed rate on the existing mortgage had expired on 31 December 2018, so 
the new mortgage started with the new borrowing on the five-year fixed rate, and the 
borrowing carried over from the old mortgage on Barclays standard variable rate (SVR). 
Mrs and Mr L complained about this and the bank agreed to reimburse the extra interest 
theyd paid in the interim (a little under £470) and pay £200 compensation. Barclays also 
arranged a new fixed rate for the balance ported from the old mortgage. 
In January 2020, Mrs and Mr L approached their local branch about borrowing some more 
money to build an extension. They were turned down, and they believe the reason for this 
was the way the mortgage had been set up, with two separate accounts (one of which was 
apparently labelled as a home improvement loan in Barclays systems) with two different 
product end dates. 
Frustrated by the decision not to lend them more money, and a sense of a general lack of 
support, Mrs and Mr L moved their mortgage to another lender, raising an extra £30,000 in 
the process to fund the extension. The Barclays mortgage was repaid in full in June 2020, 
and Mrs and Mr L incurred an ERC of almost £4,400. They think that should be refunded.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs and Mr L have asked for it 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, theres nothing untoward in a mortgage comprising more than one segment; its 
quite normal in cases where one part of the mortgage is on one deal and another part is on a 
different deal. That was necessary here because Mrs and Mr L were already partway 
through a fixed rate deal on their existing mortgage when they applied for the new one. 
Porting the existing deal to the mortgage was intended to remove the risk of paying an ERC 
if the move went through before 31 December 2018, whilst the new borrowing was taken on 
a different rate. 
Of course, the move went through after 31 December 2018, by which time the ported 
borrowing had reverted to SVR and would be on that until the replacement deal was put 
through in April 2019. But either way, the extra borrowing was always going to be on a 
different interest rate from the ported borrowing, hence it was necessary to create the 
mortgage in two segments, or sub-accounts. Im satisfied the point-of-sale mortgage 
documentation set out the two segments and therefore the separation should not have come 
as a shock or a surprise to Mrs and Mr L after the fact.
The labelling of one of those sub-accounts as a home improvement loan (or HIL for short) is 
merely an internal quirk of Barclays system; its a legacy term from Barclays acquisition of 
the former Woolwich Building Societys mortgage operations. It has no material effect on 
how the mortgage is viewed; its entirely procedural.
Mrs and Mr L have questioned the suitability of the recommendation of a five-year fixed rate 
for the additional borrowing rather than a two-year deal. I think that this, in part at least, 
arises from how Mrs and Mr L feel in the wake of events subsequent to the advice being 
given in late 2018. I have to disregard that and view the advice in terms of what they told the 
adviser about their circumstances and objectives at the time. When I do that, I find no reason 
to think recommending a five-year deal was unsuitable.
Barclays reimbursed Mrs and Mr L the extra interest they were paying in early 2019, and 
paid them £200 compensation. That was a fair response; it didnt need to do any more.
I now turn to the request for further borrowing which, when turned down, prompted 
Mrs and Mr L to repay the mortgage and incur the ERC. Lending decisions are matters of 
lenders commercial judgement; generally speaking we wont interfere with how they 
exercise that judgement, and I dont intend to do that here. Rather, Ill focus on 
Mrs and Mr Ls assertion that the advisor told them during the original application in late 
2018 that borrowing more money was more or less a formality.If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed, as here) we 
reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and deciding how much weight should be 
attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in isolation. We 
consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture. Thats what Ive 
done here.
I cant know for sure what was said about the prospect of future borrowing, nor the context in 
which anything might have been said. But I have to say Id be very surprised if a mortgage 
advisor gave any kind of guarantee (or even the impression of such) about future additional 
borrowing. Thats because, very simply, no one has the right borrow money, and even for 
existing borrowers, any future application for further borrowing will always be subject to 
assessment at the time the application is made. 
Thats not to say I in any way mistrust Mrs and Mr Ls testimony on this point; Ive no doubt 
its been made in good faith and reflect what they honestly recall. But I have  to decide  what  
is more  likely,  on balance.  When considering any complaint like this, as Mrs and Mr L are 
the ones bringing the complaint against Barclays, for me to uphold the complaint means 
Mrs and Mr Ls version of events needs to be more likely than Barclays version; not just as 
likely. Having considered everything thats been said and provided, Im not satisfied that test 
has been met.
That leaves the question of the ERC Mrs and Mr L paid when they moved their mortgage 
away from Barclays. I understand Mrs and Mr Ls strength of feeling about this, but theres 
no fair basis for me to say they should be allowed to repay the mortgage without incurring an 
ERC. The ERC is a part of the contract they entered into with Barclays, and its not rendered 
null or void because of maladministration on Barclays part. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr L wanted to move to a different lender due to a loss of faith in 
Barclays, and thats understandable. But I also think the greater driver of their decision was 
their desire for extra borrowing. It was ultimately Mrs and Mr Ls choice to move lender, and 
they exercised it knowing that paying an ERC was a consequence of doing so. 
Ill make one final observation; the two-year fixed rate Mrs and Mr L on with the new lender 
is much lower than the rates they were paying to Barclays. So presently, Mrs and Mr L are 
offsetting the ERC through the lower rate theyre paying their new lander, and may well 
continue to do if the next rate they take with the new lender is lower than the rates they 
would have been paying Barclays until 2024.
Mrs and Mr L dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mrs and Mr Ls right to take legal action against Barclays over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman