DRN-1649512
 
The complaint
Mrs D says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2001. The policy was taken out at 
the same time as Mrs D applied for an Egg credit card. It gave her accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs D says she didnt agree to take out PPI, it was automatically added without her 
permission. But the records from Canada Square Operations show when Mrs D applied for 
the Egg credit card online she ticked a box on the screen indicating she wanted to take out 
PPI, agreeing with the statement that by ticking the box she was confirming shed read and 
agreed to the terms and conditions of the PPI. The options to select or decline PPI were set 
out with equal prominence on the screen. So, I think Canada Square Operations made it 
clear to Mrs D the PPI was optional, and she agreed to take it out. I can understand she 
might not remember this given how long ago the sale was.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D, so it didnt have to check if 
it was suitable for her. It was up to Mrs D to decide whether the policy was right for her, 
bearing in mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Canada Square Operations didnt give Mrs D all the information about the PPI 
that she needed before she made her decision. But Mrs D chose to take out the policy and 
so appears to have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations. The policy was fairly priced in the market and offered a competitive benefit 
level. If Mrs D was sick the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and shes told us she 
wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employer. Overall, I think it unlikely Mrs D wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided.
It follows I dont think Mrs D has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman