DRN-1661273
The complaint
Miss L complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Miss L took out in May 
2003. It was sold in store. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss L disagreed 
saying, in summary, that she was told she had to have the PPI to get the store card so she 
wasn't given a choice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Miss L aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. Miss L originally told us she couldn't remember much about the sale, other than that 
she thinks she filled in the application in a store. In response to our adjudicator she now 
recalls she was told she had to have the PPI. I think it's unlikely that Miss L remembers what 
happened - based on her earlier testimony and the time that's gone by since she took out 
the card. And I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I've relied more on the paperwork 
that was completed at the time.
I've seen a copy of the store card application form which Miss L signed. It included a 
separate section headed "Protecting your account" and Miss L signed, separately from the 
main application, to confirm that she wanted it. I think the paperwork made it clear that PPI 
was optional and I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Miss L to check what she was 
signing for. So, overall, I think AXA made Miss L aware that the PPI was optional and she 
chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Miss L got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Based on what Ive seen of Miss Ls circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she could 
have benefitted from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things would have affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time. 
Overall, I dont think Miss L has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done 
wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman