DRN-4433983
The complaint
Limited company S complains that HSBC wont reimburse it for payments made by its 
director to an investment scheme that has since been revealed to have been fraudulent in 
nature.
While S is represented by a Claims Management Company in bringing this complaint, for 
clarity, as far as possible I will only refer to S and its director Mr N in what follows.
What happened
Mr N is a director of limited company S. He says a friend told him about an investment 
opportunity in late 2019 (Ill refer to this scheme as M). 
M apparently offered exceptionally high returns, in excess of 10% per month. It did so 
supposedly through importing and reselling mobile phones.
However, it has since come to light that M was operating fraudulently. It appears M was 
essentially a so-called Ponzi scheme, paying out returns from later investors money rather 
than from profits.
S held a business banking account with HSBC. Between 7 February 2020 and 8 May 2020, 
a total of £12,000 was sent directly to M from Ss business account.
While initially all seemed well, and a credit of £8,560 was received from M on 1 May 2020, it 
appears later returns failed to arrive and it has not been possible to recover the capital. 
Ultimately, Mr N lost £3,440 to M, net of the returns received in May 2020.
S reported this as an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam) to HSBC. S also reported 
it to the bank that received the payments, the complaint about which has also been referred 
to this service but does not form part of this decision.
HSBC declined to refund the payments  it didnt consider it was liable to do so.
Our Investigator looked into Ss complaint about HSBC. She didnt think HSBC was required 
to refund the payments. She said that the evidence led her to believe the funds sent from Ss 
account had been invested for the personal benefit of Mr N, not for business purposes 
connected to S. She didnt think it would be fair to ask HSBC to reimburse S in these 
circumstances.
S didnt agree. It provided further information and, in summary argued:
It accepted that the investment with M had been held in Mr Ns name, but this didnt 
mean the investment belonged to him. 
Chat messages between Mr N and his fellow director showed them discussing M. 
The fellow director noted he had personally invested £40,000 from his savings. 
Mr N had told our Investigator he couldnt have invested personally at that point due 
to his personal circumstances. He said the money had been sent from Ss account, 
but his fellow director had given their consent to the investment being held in Mr Ns 
sole name. This consent had been evidenced by the use of the word we (and 
similar) in the chat messages in relation to the investment.
While the Investigator had noted that the credit received from M appeared to have 
been sent onwards from S to another individual using a payment reference related 
to M, S said this had simply been an administrative error by its accountant. That 
payment out didnt in reality have any connection to the returns received from M and 
didnt reflect the true nature of the payment. 
Other evidence from its accounting software showed the payments to M were sent 
from Ss business bank account  which it said showed this had been a business 
investment.
S evidenced the purchase of a van in 2023, and said it would have bought this 
sooner, but for the scam. Chat messages showed the directors discussing the merits 
of a van advertised for sale in 2020.
Mr N held a bank card in his name which allowed him to make payments from the 
business bank account. This proved he and the business were interchangeable in 
this context.
The Investigator considered these arguments and the evidence. But she remained 
persuaded on a balance of probabilities that this investment had been held in Mr Ns 
individual capacity and not that of S. S had not suffered the financial loss.
In light of the disagreement, I have been asked to reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A key question for me to determine here is whether these payments were for an investment 
belonging to S, or alternatively went to an investment belonging to Mr N. I will predominantly 
focus in what follows on what I consider to be the essential elements pertinent to a fair 
determination in all the circumstances. However, in reaching my findings, I would reiterate 
that I have taken into account all of the evidence and arguments that have been put forward. 
Mr N brings this complaint, but does so as the director of S, not in a personal capacity. He 
recalls that he was initially made aware of M by a friend. He says that friend had themselves 
invested personally in M and it appeared theyd received returns on their investment. 
Some of the evidence Mr N provided to our investigator in support of his complaint about 
HSBC relates to other investors in M, including that friend. Mr N says this illustrates what he 
received himself, although he says he no longer has access to much of the correspondence 
he received. That which Mr N has been able to provide, and which relates to the disputed 
payments from Ss account, refers solely to Mr N. There is no mention of S in those emails 
or documents.
Mr N has however been able to provide a copy of the initial investment contract. This is a 
very brief document setting out the basis of the investment. The first party to the contract is 
Ms director. Adjacent to that directors name, the contract indicates their status as the owner of limited company M. Therefore, I read this as indicating that this person was entering into 
the contract on behalf of the limited company M, in the capacity of its director.
The second party is named as Mr N. Against Mr Ns name is simply shown the word 
Investor. There is no mention of this investment being made on or on behalf of S. There is 
no reference to S anywhere in the document. Nor is there any indication that the investment 
being made by a limited company or that Mr N was acting in the capacity of a director. 
Rather, it is consistent with this being an investment in Mr Ns personal name.
Mr N has told our Investigator that hed have preferred the contract and investment to have 
been in the name of S. He says he was told by M it could only accept investments in an 
individuals name, although says he has no record of that communication besides his 
recollections. But he says he intended this to be Ss investment, not his.
Where there is contradictory evidence, as I find there is here, I am required to reach my 
findings on the balance of probabilities  in other words on what I consider to be most likely 
given the information available to me.
I accept that the fact that while Ss Companies House records show S to be a heating and 
air-conditioning company, not one involved in investment activities, or in an industry sector 
connected to Ms business, this does not necessarily mean S could not have entered into an 
investment of this type in its own right. But equally, there was no barrier to Mr N having done 
so in his own right.
I find it significant though that there is a lack of any reference to the investment being made 
by S on either the contract papers or any associated email correspondence. This seems 
inconsistent with this having been an investment entered into by Mr N on behalf of S. 
I am not persuaded the chat messages between Mr N and his fellow director somehow alter 
this situation. None of the messages Ive seen show any explicit discussion about the true 
ownership of the investment being different to how it would nominally appear. Rather these 
suggest that both were investing, that the other director had separately invested from his 
own savings, and that money could be taken from Ss account for the next investment round 
offered by M. On the face of it, this simply doesnt seem inconsistent with that latter 
investment being Mr Ns.
Overall, taking all the evidence into consideration, on a balance of probabilities I find it most 
likely this investment was one owned by Mr N. I accept that I cannot know for certain 
whether that was what S or Mr N actually intended, but that is what the contemporaneous 
records appear to me to show was the case, intended or not.
Of course, Mr N and S are separate legal persons - they are not one and the same even if 
Mr N believes they are. Mr Ns argument that he holds a bank card for the business account 
with his name on the front does not demonstrate he and S are the same entity. Rather, this 
shows he is an authorised signatory on behalf of S. S, as a limited company, retains a 
separate legal identity from Mr N.
This distinction is not an arbitrary one. That separation has the consequence that an 
investment owned by Mr N is not the same as one owned by the limited company S.
As such these payments had the effect of Mr N withdrawing an asset from S for his own use 
and Mr N making an investment in his own name with that asset. I think it most likely that the 
associated payments would constitute a loan from S to its director Mr N (in the absence of 
any evidence to the contrary  although the following logic holds for similar reasons were 
this alternately established to have been a return of capital or some other debt or dividend owed by S to Mr N). 
Mr N then lost those funds he invested, through the scam perpetrated by M. But S has not 
suffered a loss  Mr N has, which is not the same thing, as explained above. The money is 
therefore owed by M to Mr N. But (if treated as a directors loan) the debt resulting from the 
payments made from Ss account is owed by Mr N to S. 
It follows that any reimbursement now sought by S in respect of those payments should be 
addressed in the first instance to Mr N. It is not properly directed to HSBC, there is no loss 
on Ss part for which I can fairly hold the bank responsible. And similarly, I cannot fairly 
require HSBC to consider the payments under the terms of the CRM Code  S has not 
suffered a loss and so the payments do not fall within the scope of what the code is intended 
to cover. Neither do I consider it fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for these payments 
for any other reason.
All considered and given what I have set out above, I do not find it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this specific complaint for me to require HSBC to 
refund S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman