DRN-1705452
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint is about Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited charging for 
additional insurance policies when she acquired a used car through a finance agreement. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W acquired a car through a finance agreement. While I understand the dealer has since 
closed, I find that enough evidence has been provided for me to make a decision on this 
complaint. Having considered the evidence, I agree with the conclusions reached by our 
investigator for these reasons: 
Mrs W acquired a car in October 2015. She said that she thinks she agreed to one 
insurance product, but further products were added to her invoice without her 
knowledge. I have looked at the documents from the time and can see that a 
demands and needs assessment was completed. This shows evidence of discussion 
with Mrs W about the options available and the subsequent recommendations of 
asset protection insurance, minor damage repair and tyre and alloy wheel damage 
cover. Based on the information provided, I find that the options available were 
discussed with Mrs W at the time and Mrs W was given the information she needed 
to make an informed decision about the cover she wanted. 
A copy of a supplementary vehicle invoice has been provided dated 15 October 
2015. I note the comments from Mrs Ws representative about this invoice, however I 
have nothing to suggest this invoice isnt authentic and I find it more likely than not it 
was provided at the point of acquisition of the car. The invoice lists the products and 
the costs and while the copy I have seen isnt signed I find on balance, it is more 
likely than not that these options were presented to Mrs W and she agreed to the 
policies. 
Mrs W says that she wasnt provided with the documents. Pendragon says these 
would have been provided when she collected the car. On balance, I find it 
reasonable to expect the documents to have been provided when the car was 
collected and had this not happened, I would have expected Mrs W to have 
requested these at the time. She has said she remembers agreeing to an insurance 
product so I find it reasonable she would have at least requested this document. 
Copies of the policies have been provided showing that the cover was set up for 
Mrs W at the time of acquisition and so she would have had the benefit of these. 
Mrs W says that she thought she had paid a deposit of £5,500 towards the car but 
that only £3,654 was used for this with the rest paying for the insurance products. I 
have looked through the HPA and the deposit amount is clearly set out. Mrs W has 
signed this document and had she thought this amount should have been higher, I 
think it reasonable that she would have raised this at the time. 
Overall I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that Mrs W was mis-sold the policies 
she was charged for and so I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Pendragon Finance and 
Insurance Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman