DRN-3078139
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T were contacted by a company Ill refer to as P that supplied and installed 
solar panel systems. Following a meeting, Mr and Mrs T agreed to enter into a contract with 
P for it to supply and install a solar panel system at their home. To fund this Mr and Mrs T 
also agreed to enter into a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs T made a claim under section 75 of the CCA through their representative. The 
representative said that P had told Mr and Mrs T that the solar panels would be self-funded 
and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) 
income. But that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much 
higher than the income.
In its final response letter, Shawbrook said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs T. Unhappy with this response, they referred the 
complaint to our service.
During the course of our investigation Shawbrook made an offer to resolve the complaint. 
Shawbrook offered to calculate the potential savings and income to Mr and Mrs T over the 
term of the loan. It then said it would restructure the loan so that they didnt pay any more 
than this over the 15 year term of the loan. It also offered to pay Mr and Mrs T £200 to 
recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Shawbrook gave Mr and Mrs T four options as to how theyd like their loan restructured:
(a) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early;
(b) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they pay 
a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term;
(c) The overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs T, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate 
amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, 
with the remainder being paid direct to Mr and Mrs T, and they continue to make the 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or
(d) The overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs T, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate 
amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, 
with the remainder being paid direct to Mr and Mrs T, and they pay a new, lower 
monthly payment until the end of the loan term.
Shawbrook explained that, because of the way the loan was structured, if all the 
overpayments were returned (options (c) and (d) above), the overall loan balance would 
increase. Therefore, it proposed that an amount of the overpayment would be used to 
ensure the outstanding balance, and therefore the amount that Mr and Mrs T owed, wouldnt 
increase.
Our investigator felt that the offer was fair. Mr and Mrs T didnt. In summary their 
representative said that they should have the option of receiving all their overpayments back, 
even if this meant that the loan balance to would increase. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Shawbrook nor Mr and Mrs T dispute that the benefits of the solar panel system 
were misrepresented. And Ive also noted that neither party disagrees with the proposed 
principle of redress to put things right. Therefore, Ive only considered whether Mr and Mrs T 
should have the option of receiving the full refund of their overpayments and for their loan 
balance to increase. 
Shawbrook has explained that, when it has restructured the loan to ensure that the total 
amount payable over the term matches the expected benefits, if it were to refund all 
overpayments made, this would cause the outstanding loan balance to be higher than it 
currently is.
My understanding is that this is because, under the original loan terms, the monthly 
payments Mr and Mrs T made were predominantly paying off the interest that was being 
accrued as opposed to reducing the outstanding capital for the earlier period of the loan. 
This means when Shawbrook has restructured the loan, if it were to return all the 
overpayments made, the outstanding loan balance would increase.
Shawbrook has said it doesnt think it is appropriate to do this as it would, in effect, increase 
the debt that Mr and Mrs T are in. Their representative has said that the decision on whether 
the debt should increase or not should be down to their choice as opposed to what 
Shawbrook has said.
Ive carefully considered the views put forward by all parties. Having done so, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs Ts outstanding loan balance to be increased 
beyond what it currently is.
I say this for broadly the reasons that have already been given by Shawbrook. If all the 
overpayments were returned, this would increase the overall amount owed and therefore 
increase the level of debt that Mr and Mrs T are in. And I dont think consider that to be fair 
and reasonable.
So, whilst Im satisfied that the four options discussed above are fair, Shawbrook should 
ensure that, if Mr and Mrs T choose option (c) or (d), the appropriate portion of the 
overpayments is used to ensure the loan balance does not increase beyond what it currently 
is.
In summary the four options are:
(a) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr and 
Mrs T continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing 
early;
(b) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr and 
Mrs T pay a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term;(c) The overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs T, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate 
amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, 
with the remainder being paid direct to Mr and Mrs T, who continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or
(d) The overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs T, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate 
amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, 
with the remainder being paid direct to Mr and Mrs T, who pay a new, lower monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
I am satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs T 
first contacted Shawbrook that that their claim should have been upheld. The fact that this 
did not happen undoubtedly caused them trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an 
award of £200 to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. In full and final 
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
(a) allow Mr and Mrs T to keep the solar panels;
(b) estimate the potential savings and incomes to Mr and Mrs T from the panels over the 15 
year term of the loan and rework it so they pay no more than this, where possible using 
Mr and Mrs Ts electricity bills and FIT statements to do this;
(c) add 8% simple interest to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment was 
made to date of settlement;
(d) allow Mr and Mrs T to choose how theyd like their overpayments to be used, using the 
four options described above; and
(e) pay Mr and Mrs T £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman