DRN-3294521
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Godiva Mortgages Limited didnt reduce the interest rate on 
their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of 
England base rate (base rate). They feel this is profiteering, and they are being used to 
prop up other parts of the business.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S applied for the three BTL mortgages through a third-party mortgage broker in 
August and September 2016. Mortgage offers were issued in September and November 
2016 which set out the terms of the mortgage contracts. 
The product was the same for each mortgage; it was called Flexx for Term and that was 
described in the offers as A variable rate, currently 2.39%, which is managed by Godiva 
Mortgages Limited and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of 
England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term.
In November 2017 Godiva wrote to Mr and Mrs S to tell them the interest rate, and therefore 
the monthly payments, on their mortgages were going up. The letters said In line with the 
terms and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our variable 
mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base Rate and 
the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your mortgage 
is increasing to 2.64%.
Further rate increase letters were sent in August 2018 with broadly the same wording as the 
November 2017 letter, this time the interest rates were increasing to 2.89%.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Godiva, and it didnt uphold the complaint. It said in its final 
response letter of 16 October 2020 that it had to make some difficult decisions with all its 
customers in mind. It reminded Mr and Mrs S that there was no early repayment charge 
(ERC) so they could move to a different product  or lender  if they wanted to. 
Correspondence passed between the parties, until Godiva said an impasse had been 
reached and recommended that Mr and Mrs S refer their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. She 
said, in summary:
Godiva had made Mr and Mrs S aware of the type of interest rate they were taking 
out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
she thought Godiva had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no obvious barriers to Mr and Mrs S either taking a new product with 
Godiva or moving their mortgages to a new lender if they felt the interest rates were 
no longer competitive.
The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant Godiva needed to offer 
support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. She felt the substantial challenge provided by the pandemic led 
to changes in the way any lender would need to run its business.
The current interest rate of 2.89% was a competitive rate across the wider mortgage 
market, particularly for BTL products offering such flexibility.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators assessment. They said, in summary:
There is clear wording in the offer letter (section five) which says the payments will 
vary with interest rate changes.
March 2020 was a long time ago, and still no adjustments have been made. They 
want to know when the interest rate will fall.
The margins are now materially higher than when Godiva issued the product, and its 
results are very positive so it isnt a Covid distress situation.
Godiva is acting outside the terms of the offer letter, and theyre not being treated 
fairly compared with other customers.
There has been no attempt to amend or improve the contradictory wording.
Historically the product had followed base rate, and theyve been prejudiced as there 
were other good products available at the time which they can no longer get.
Godiva is just doing what it wants and hasnt offered any similar competitive 
products.
Our investigator had brought in additional evidence as Godiva had failed to provide 
any underlying financial evidence.
Our investigator shouldnt have made claims about the BTL market and typical rates 
as that isnt relevant to the dispute, and they question what investment qualifications 
she has.
The 2017 and 2018 rate change letters clearly say it is due to changes in the base 
rate, they want to know why things changed or if the letters are a lie.The complaint was then looked at by a second investigator who said:
Section five of the mortgage offer doesnt say the product will follow base rate, it just 
says it is a variable rate so the payment will change if the interest rate changes.
Section four and the special conditions of the mortgage offer state the interest rate is 
set independently of base rate.
Theres nothing in the terms and conditions which says it must follow base rate, 
irrespective of what Godiva may previously have done.
The advice was given by a mortgage broker, so it was their responsibility to explain 
the product.
We cant comment on any potential future changes to the interest rate.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs S are concerned that information has been deleted, either 
accidentally or on purpose. As our investigator explained, we cant see what is visible to 
Mr and Mrs S in the portal or how that is formatted. However, our internal case file system is 
separate to that and once we receive information onto our internal case file it cant be 
deleted or amended, so even if the information is no longer visible to Mr and Mrs S it will still 
be on our internal system so I can view everything thats been provided on this case.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked or 
answered, either by us or by Godiva.
Its the nature of what we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the 
other. Our findings are based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made 
by both parties. We look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, 
regulations, good industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, 
the lender acted fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs A entered into, and whether 
the nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry in the paperwork at the time. 
I cant consider the advice that was given, as the mortgage broker was a third party acting 
on behalf of Mr and Mrs S. For that reason, I cant comment on what the mortgage broker 
may have told Mr and Mrs S, nor how they may have represented the product to them. That 
would be a matter for Mr and Mrs S to take up directly with their mortgage broker if they so 
wish.What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offers provide the following descriptions of the product:
GFC23  BTL Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 2.39%, which is managed by 
Godiva Mortgages Limited and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the 
Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Company at 
a rate, currently 2.39%, which will be set independently of The Companys Standard 
Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see the Flexx product is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either 
the standard variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage 
product.
At the time Mr and Mrs S took out the mortgages, whilst Godiva had changed the Flexx 
products rate by the same differential the three previous times the base rate had changed, 
the three base rate changes before that hadnt been reflected with a matching differential 
change across the board.
I understand Mr and Mrs S believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the 
base rate is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate 
products. But Ive not seen any evidence that Godiva told Mr and Mrs S that their interest 
rate would always change in line with the base rate, and their mortgage offers clearly explain 
the interest rate is set independently of the base rate.
Mr and Mrs S have said that the mortgage offer is contradictory because section five states 
The figures In this section will vary following Interest rate changes which they feel refers to 
the base rate. Mr and Mrs S said:
 the expression used is will and not might but you have done nothing as interest 
rates have fallen which is a direct breach of your offer letter. You clearly do not say the 
say interest rates relating to this product or loan which is the terminology used 
elsewhere.
They also say that section seven states The monthly payments shown in this illustration 
could be considerably different if interest rates change. Which they also feel makes it clear 
there is intended to be a correlation as it says interest rates, and not interest rates relating to 
the loan.
Ive considered these points very carefully but Im not persuaded by them. Interest rate in 
the context of a mortgage offer means the interest rate of that mortgage, unless it specifies 
otherwise, like it does in section four and the product special conditions where it refers to the 
Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate. If sections five and seven 
meant the monthly payments would change when base rate changes then they would have 
said Bank of England Base Rate not interest rate.
In any event, the wording in both those sections was provided by the regulator and was 
required content; the wording in section five had to be included for all mortgages that had a 
variable rate, and the wording in section seven was the same for all mortgages, even those 
with fixed interest rates (unless the interest rate was fixed for the entire mortgage term).The regulators rules at the time stated:
At the end of Section 5 of the illustration the following text must be included:
(1) unless the interest rate is fixed throughout the term of the regulated mortgage 
contract: 'The figures in this section will vary following interest rate changes...'
And;
Under the section heading 'Are you comfortable with the risks?':
(1)  under the sub-heading 'What if interest rates go up?' the illustration must include 
the following:
(g) the following text: 'The [monthly] payments shown in this illustration could be 
considerably different if interest rates change.
The covering letter for the mortgage offers stated:
The Product Special Conditions contain provisions regarding the rate of interest 
payable on your mortgage, including changes in the rate where applicable. Subject to 
this, our Mortgage Conditions provide that we are able to change the rate and set out 
when and how we may do so. Where there is a change in the rate, amended monthly 
payments will be required. We will write to tell you about any changes in the rate or 
the monthly payments.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Godiva set out the details of the interest rates of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. Although 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S werent misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the product, I 
still need to decide if Godiva acted fairly.
Was it fair for Godiva to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The mortgage conditions issue 2 booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
4.5 Unless the Offer says otherwise, we can change the applicable Interest Rate for any of 
the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing at the time or those 
which are expected to apply in the near future):
4.5.1 (i) to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally;
(ii) to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
(iii) to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
(iv) to respond to new (or changes to any) statements or codes of practice 
designed to enhance consumer protection;
(v) to respond to changes in the costs or risks incurred by us in providing the 
mortgage;(vi) to respond to increased cost or risk incurred as a result of any change of use 
of the Property (for example, if you let the Property, with or without our 
permission); or
(vii) for any other reason set out specifically in the Offer.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clause 4.5.1(i) and 4.5.1(v); that is, an increase 
in the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Godiva in respect of mortgage 
lending. But although the condition says the interest rate may change when base rate 
changes, it doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Godivas costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus Godiva 
also increased the interest rate on its Flexx products by the same amount of percentage 
points. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that Godivas costs decreased in March 2020 as the costs 
dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr and Mrs S mortgages in 
isolation. The base rate decreased, but Godiva incurred additional costs across its mortgage 
function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning mortgage 
payments werent being made when expected, and needing to move to a remote way of 
working, for example. 
Godiva has sent us evidence in confidence which shows why the Flexx interest rates werent 
reduced in 2020. Were unable to disclose that information to Mr and Mrs S as it is 
commercially sensitive, but Ive considered the information very carefully and Im satisfied 
that Godivas decision wasnt unfair. Im satisfied Godiva has shown that the events of 2020 
were different to those of 2017 and 2018, and Im satisfied that Godiva has shown that its 
costs increased in 2020 even though base rate fell. 
Godiva needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Godiva made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr and Mrs S (customers were paying 4.99% on the standard 
variable rate, compared to the 2.89% Mr and Mrs S were paying). That seems a fair decision 
for Godiva to have made. 
It is unfortunate here that the base rate reduction came at a time Godiva suffered from 
increased costs so it wasnt able to reduce the products interest rate at that time. But the 
last three times the base rate had been reduced (going back to February 2009), Godiva had 
reduced the interest rate for the Flexx product by the same amount of percentage points 
(that, however, did not give Godiva a contractual obligation to always do so).
Mr and Mrs S said the fact their interest rate rise letters clearly say this is due to changes in 
bank of england base rate is being ignored. If this is the reason then the reason has 
changed? or is what they said in letters a lie. But the letters dont say it is due to changes in 
the base rate in isolation, they say theyve taken into account recent changes to the base 
rate and  the costs involved in providing your mortgage. So nothing changed, and 
nothing was incorrect. It is just unfortunate that in 2020 whilst the base rate had reduced, Godiva had increased (rather than decreased) costs and so the interest rate couldnt be 
changed at that time.
Mr and Mrs S have the flexibility to switch to another interest rate product with Godiva at any 
time if they no longer felt the Flexx product offered value for money. Im satisfied that other 
interest rate products were available to Mr and Mrs S mortgages if they had wanted to 
switch to them and that there would have been no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) to pay or 
other contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
They could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if they felt the 
interest rate products offered by Godiva werent competitive in the market. Mr and Mrs S 
dont have to apply for another product with Godiva or another lender if they dont want to. 
But if they dont apply for another product then Mr and Mrs S will remain on the Flexx 
interest rate  which Godiva may or may not vary, in line with the terms and conditions, in 
the future. 
If Mr and Mrs S arent happy with that then they have the option to remortgage to another 
lender and the only cost currently of ending these Godiva mortgages is a £125 mortgage exit 
fee (as set out in their mortgage offers). Alternatively those fees wouldnt be charged if they 
choose to simply change to a new product with Godiva instead. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied there were no practical or contractual barriers 
preventing Mr and Mrs S from coming out of these mortgage products if they wanted to look 
for another interest rate either with Godiva or elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs S have said that by taking the Flexx product with Godiva they missed out on 
other good rates that were available with other lenders at the time. As Godiva didnt give 
them advice about the mortgage, and Ive found Godiva didnt mislead Mr and Mrs S into 
thinking this was a base rate tracker mortgage, then thats not something I can consider as 
part of this complaint. If Mr and Mrs S feel their broker didnt explain the true nature of the 
product to them, such that they would have taken out a different product entirely if theyd 
understood it, then thats something they can raise with their mortgage broker directly if they 
wish to do so.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs S frustration that their interest rate wasnt reduced Im 
satisfied Godiva didnt act unfairly when it increased the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, but 
then didnt reduce the interest rate in line with the base rate reductions in 2020.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr and Mrs S may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman