DRN-3356062
The complaint
Mr S says PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card account PayPal provided. The PayPal Credit account 
was opened initially in May 2017 with a credit limit of £250. The following credit limit 
increases took place on the account:
March 2018 - £250 increase = £500 total limit
October 2018 - £500 increase - £1,000 total limit
May 2019 - £1,000 increase = £2,000 total limit
November 2019 - £1,000 increase = £3,000 total limit
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought that PayPal ought to have 
undertaken proportionate checks in November 2019 before making the lending decision to 
increase Mr Ss borrowing to £3,000 on his account. Our investigator thought that lending 
decision was not responsible. PayPal disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
PayPal needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that PayPal should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our investigator thought that the early increases to the credit limit on the account were not 
examples of irresponsible lending. But he thought the last credit increase was an example of 
irresponsible lending. I have fully reviewed all the submissions made in this case. Having 
done so, I agree with our investigators findings and for the same reasons. 
Our investigator has issued two assessments in support of these findings. And in delivering 
them our investigator has addressed the merits of the complaint and the objections of both 
Mr S and PayPal. And as these matters have been addressed in such detail already, I am 
emboldened to make this decision shorter than I might otherwise have done.
I havent seen anything to make me think PayPal should have been concerned about Mr Ss 
ability to afford the limits given before the increase in November 2019. In saying that I have 
had regard for the initial information supplied by Mr S on his application in May 2017. Paypal 
was entitled to rely on Mr Ss information supplied in respect of his credit request to an 
extent. And as the initial credit amount was so modest, no further checks would have been 
necessary in order for them to be proportionate. Mr S declared an income that was not 
modest in nature. And he declared an expenditure that was not incredible. And the early 
lending decisions were for amounts that were modest, and the repayments on those 
amounts would have been modest also, such that I wouldnt have expected PayPal to verify 
the information Mr S gave them. 
Mr Ss other commitments didnt seem to be burdensome in relation to his income. And Mr 
Ss credit record showed no defaults or CCJs and was largely clean. And Mr Ss 
management of his PayPal account was good, including large payments and the clearance 
of the balance, and this was something PayPal could take into account when considering the 
credit limit increases. So, there was no reason for Paypal to make more searching enquiries 
into Mr Ss finances at the time of the credit limit increases (except November 2019), either 
his income or his expenditure. And had Paypal made more searching enquiries, for the same 
reasons given above, I do not think they would have seen anything to put them off providing 
the credit they did. But I think differently about the credit increase provided in November 
2019. 
Our investigator set out in some detail why he thought PayPal shouldnt have provided Mr S 
with the credit limit increase in November 2019. The total other borrowings were a little over 
£18,000. Our investigator noted that the credit check PayPal completed showed Mr Ss 
credit commitments had a significant increase at that time compared to only six months 
earlier. Mr S owed around £5,000 more in November 2019 and the majority of that was in 
increased credit card debt. Mr Ss debt to income ratio had likewise increased a significant 
amount in such a short time rising from 43% to 61% in the same six month period. And Mr S 
was managing his balance close to the credit limit. And Mr S seemed to have made little or 
no headway in reducing his balance in that six month period. I think that all of the above 
should have suggested that things may have changed for Mr S in the two and a half years 
since he took out the credit with a most modest opening credit limit such that a closer look of 
his finances might be proportionate. 
I also think a proportionate check would have had a closer look at what was going on with Mr 
Ss finances considering it had been two and a half years since PayPal had obtained any 
information regarding Mr Ss income and expenditure. And that information had been used to provide a credit limit of £250 which is far away from the £3,000 that was being offered in 
November 2019. Instead, Paypal stuck with its process and gave Mr S an increased credit 
limit. But, in doing so, it ran the risk that things could have changed for Mr S and that PayPal 
were adding to his indebtedness in a way that was not responsible. 
And that is what seems to have happened from Mr Ss bank statements and his testimony. 
Whilst Mr Ss credit file had not been compromised by his handling of his other borrowings, 
Mr Ss bank statements show that he was working hard to avoid that happening. And that his 
income was no longer steady. And Mr S seemed to have made little or no headway in 
reducing his balance in that six month period.
PayPal has sought to rely on its calculation that the credit increase lead to Mr Ss monthly 
obligation having reduced. But that is to focus on one small aspect at the expense of the 
wider picture in this case, which I have provided above. 
So, having considered all the submission made in this complaint, and for the reasons given 
above, I think that in November 2019 PayPal ought to have had cause for concern that Mr S 
could not afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. And I think PayPal 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful 
such that they shouldnt have increased Mr Ss credit limit. I also think there was a significant 
risk that further increases to his credit limits could have led to his indebtedness increasing 
unsustainably, such that he had no funds available to meet his regular outgoings. 
It follows that I think that Mr S lost out because PayPal provided him with further credit from 
November 2019 onwards. In my view, PayPals actions unfairly prolonged Mr Ss 
indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting him into further debt. 
It follows that PayPal should put things right.
Putting things right
PayPal should:
Rework Mr Ss account to ensure that from November 2019 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £2,000, (being the credit 
limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made PayPal should contact Mr S to arrange an affordable repayment 
plan for this account. Once Mr S has repaid the outstanding balance, it should 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file from November 
2019 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. PayPal 
should also remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file from 
November 2019 onwards.HM Revenue & Customs requires PayPal to take off tax from this interest. PayPal 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie 
SCA should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman