DRN-4284621
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint relates to a shortfall debt resulting from the sale of a property on which 
she held a mortgage and linked unsecured loan with NRAM Limited. She is unhappy about 
NRAMs handling of events relating to an offer she made in 2021 to settle the debt for less 
than the outstanding balance. This includes NRAMs assessment of her income and 
expenditure, and its conclusion she had disposable income available to make monthly 
payments toward the debt.
Miss M is represented in her complaint, but for ease, I will refer to all actions and comments 
as hers.
What happened
Miss M took out a joint mortgage and unsecured loan with a lender that NRAM is now 
responsible for. The property was sold at a shortfall in 2011 with a resulting debt of over 
£38,000 being left outstanding. Following remediation and payments from Miss M, this 
amount reduced to just over £33,000 by the summer of 2012.
NRAMs pursuit of Miss M for repayment of the debt has been the subject of ongoing 
correspondence for some time. Most recently Miss Ms concerns have related to offers she 
has made to settle the debt and NRAMs responses, or lack thereof, to those offers.
In December 2020 Miss M contacted NRAM with an offer of £3,500 to settle the debt in full. 
NRAM asked for more information about Miss Ms circumstances, including her income and 
expenditure (I&E). This information was provided in February 2021 and NRAM turned down 
the offer in its letter of 21 April 2021, but said it was happy to agree an affordable repayment 
plan. At that time the debt was still just over £33,000.
In May 2021 Miss M complained that NRAM had contacted her directly, rather than going 
through her representatives. She also expressed disappointment in the amount of time it 
took for NRAM to respond to the offer. Miss M also increased her offer to £7,000. The 
complaint was responded to in NRAMs final response letter of 5 July 2021. NRAM upheld 
the complaint regarding the direct communications and the time taken to respond to the 
offer.
NRAM declined the revised offer as it considered the amount was too low, given the 
outstanding balance and the disposable income Miss M had at the time. Miss M disputed 
that she had a disposable income that could be used to pay down the debt and, in 
August 2021 she asked NRAM to reconsider the offer. NRAM did not do so at that time, 
however, in October 2021 it confirmed that the offer would be referred to its Senior 
Management Team (SMT) for consideration. 
Miss M chased the review of the offer several times over the following months. Eventually, 
on 1 April 2022, NRAM asked Miss M for an up to date I&E form so that the offer could be 
reviewed. Miss M didnt provide the requested information.
At the end of May 2022 Miss M complained that NRAM hadnt responded to her request for 
the revised offer to be reconsidered. NRAM issued a final response letter on 19 July 2022. It 
set out what had happened and when, and confirmed that it was waiting for a revised I&E to 
reconsider the offer. 
Miss M wasnt satisfied with NRAMs response and referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He concluded that we could not consider 
any complaint issues covered by NRAMs final response letters of 14 January 2021 and 
5 July 2021, as Miss M didnt contact this service about her complaint until September 2022; 
outside the six-month referral periods. As NRAM hadnt consented to us considering those 
complaints and there were not exceptional circumstances that prevented a referral, the 
complaints fell outside our jurisdiction.
In relation to the crux of the complaint that fell within our jurisdiction  that NRAM had not 
treated Miss M fairly in relation to the £7,000 settlement offer  the Investigator didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. He was satisfied that the information NRAM had at the time it 
declined the offer indicated Miss M had disposable income and so NRAMs decision was not 
unreasonable. As for NRAM providing an explanation for why it considered the offer was too 
low, the Investigator explained that he wouldnt have expected it to.  
In addition, the Investigator explained that the Regulator required NRAM to consider 
expressions of dissatisfaction from Miss M as complaints. He also set out that he considered 
many of the issues Miss M had complained about related to how her complaints had been 
handled. As complaint handling itself was not an activity that fell within our jurisdiction, and 
we were not upholding any elements of the underlying complaint that it was directly linked to, 
we could not comment on the issues further.  Overall, the Investigator concluded that the 
complaint should not be upheld, although he acknowledged NRAM could have been clearer 
about who within its organisation was doing what.
Miss M didnt accept the Investigators conclusions about either our jurisdiction or the merits 
of the complaint. However, she confirmed that the complaint only related to matters that 
occurred following the final response letter of July 2021, which meant she was not objecting 
to the Investigators conclusions regarding not being able to consider the complaint issues 
covered in that or the earlier final response letter. In relation to the matter of the merits of the 
complaint, Miss M disagreed with the calculation relating to disposable income and so 
considered the Investigator was wrong to find that the rejection of the settlement offer was 
reasonable. She said this was especially so when there was a joint borrower that could be 
pursued for the remainder of the debt. Miss M also provided her own calculation of her I&E 
from February 2021, which she considered showed she didnt have a disposable income.
Our investigator set out how the assessment of disposable income was done and confirmed 
the figures it produced. He highlighted that the assessment had been done based on the 
information Miss M had given NRAM and if she had other outgoings she didnt tell it about, 
as was now being suggested, it could not have known. He also said that even if Miss M 
didnt have a disposable income at that time, he couldnt reasonably say that NRAM was 
wrong not to accept Miss Ms offer. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 July 2023 setting out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
At each stage of our process we look at our jurisdiction to consider a complaint. In general, 
for a complaint to be considered by this service, it first needs to be raised with the financial 
business that is responsible for the acts or omissions complained about. When a complaint 
is responded to, whether to a consumers satisfaction or not, the consumer will have the right to refer their complaint to this service, but in most cases that referral will need to be made 
within six months of the final response letter.
In this case, as our Investigator explained, there have been several final response letters. 
The only one issued within six months of Miss M contacting this service was that of 19 July 
2022. Miss M has confirmed that all of the events she wants considered happened after the 
July 2021 final response letter (which is the second to last one issued by NRAM). That said, 
I would clarify to Miss M that if she wants any of her earlier complaint points pursued for the 
later period, for example if she received further direct contact from NRAM, it would need to 
be raised separately again. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss Ms strength of feeling regarding this complaint. I would like to assure her 
that I have looked at everything shes told and given us. I trust she wont take it as a 
discourtesy that I have condensed this complaint in the way that I have. Although I have 
read and considered the whole file I will keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because I havent considered it, but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I have noted Miss Ms representatives comments about what it expects my decision to do. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party and we look at things independently 
without taking sides. So without intending any discourtesy to Miss M, its up to me to decide 
what is relevant and to focus my decision appropriately. 
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing to Miss M. Its the nature of what 
we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are 
based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We 
look at what happened and decide whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, 
and good industry practice, the lender acted fairly and reasonably.
The complaint raised by Miss M related to the rejection of her revised offer of £7,000 and the 
behaviour (or lack thereof) of NRAM when she asked it to review its decision.  
In relation to NRAMs rejection of the offer Miss M made, this is a commercial decision on its 
part and in general we dont interfere with such decisions. It would only be if the decision 
was clearly unfair in the circumstances, that we would do so. I would also state at this point 
that in general, there is nothing inherently wrong with a lender pursuing a consumer for 
money owed. In addition, the mortgage and loan contracts would have made Miss M and her 
former partner each responsible for the entire amount borrowed, so whether or not NRAM is 
pursuing the other party for the debt, there is nothing wrong in it pursuing Miss M too.
In this case Miss M offered NRAM £7,000 to settle a debt of over £30,000; a relatively low 
percentage of the amount owed. In addition, the information Miss M gave to NRAM indicated 
to it that she was in a position to make monthly payments toward the debt. In the 
circumstances where a lender judges that a consumer may be able to pay their debt, or a 
significant amount of it, from their income over time, it would not be unreasonable for it to 
ask the consumer to do so. In the circumstances as NRAM knew them, I am not persuaded 
that the decision it made was unfair. Obviously it would have been a disappointment to 
Miss M, but that is different to NRAM acting unfairly.
Miss M has said that she disagrees with the calculation NRAM completed to assess if she 
had a disposable income that could be paid toward the shortfall debt. She has also said she hasnt received an explanation as to how this calculation was done. Our investigator 
explained how it was done; it is a very simple calculation: 
All of Miss Ms outgoings are added up, including the full amount of rent and other joint 
monthly costs.
Miss Ms income and the money contributed by her partner toward the joint costs are 
added up.
The first number is subtracted from the latter, i.e. expenditure is subtracted from income.  
Having reviewed the figures Miss M gave NRAM in February 2021 I cant find that it was 
wrong to conclude the information showed she had a disposable income of over £200 each 
month. 
I note that Miss M has provided some new expenditure information in her most recent letter 
to this service. However, I cant consider that information in relation to this complaint as it 
was not available to NRAM when it declined Miss Ms settlement offer. I would also suggest 
that if Miss M has completed a new income and expenditure form, she or her representative 
should send it to NRAM, as it requested in April 2022. This will enable it to reconsider the 
offer she made, if she still wants that done.
Miss M asked NRAM to review its decision in the summer of 2021. It didnt do so and didnt 
respond to the request for two months. This was clearly a shortfall in service on NRAMs 
part, especially given the delays it had acknowledged about its consideration of the previous 
offer. At this point NRAM said its SMT would review the offer, but it doesnt appear that 
happened, or if it did, further information was asked for to enable a decision to be made. The 
request for more information doesnt seem to have been communicated to Miss M for around 
a further five months. Again, I can only consider this to be further delay on NRAMs part. 
However, the fact that the offer has not yet been reconsidered is not entirely NRAMs fault. 
Given Miss M was disputing the assessment of the I&E, and it had been some time since 
shed provided information, it wasnt unreasonable for NRAM to ask for updated information. 
This was not provided and so NRAM couldnt complete the review Miss M has complained 
didnt happen. As I have said above, Miss M may want to provide NRAM with information 
about her I&E, with supporting evidence if required.
NRAM acknowledged having delayed responding to Miss Ms initial offer. It then 
compounded that mistake by not responding to the revised offer she made. There were then 
further delays and poor communication in dealing with Miss Ms request. The service NRAM 
provided Miss M with clearly fell short of what it should have been, which compounded 
similar earlier poor service. Given this, I consider NRAM should pay Miss M £200 for the 
inconvenience and upset this will have caused.
NRAM accepted my provisional decision.
Miss M didnt agree with my provisional decision. She commented on the correspondence 
that had been exchanged and highlighted the same points that had previously been made, 
including that her representative had not received some of the correspondence it was sent. 
In addition, Miss M again commented on the I&E calculation and set out how she considered 
the calculation should have been done and what should have been concluded about her 
finances. This was again based on different information from that provided to NRAM. She 
went on to say the FCA required lenders to engage constructively with a borrower, and 
highlighted that:
A firm cannot pressure a customer to:pay a debt in one single or very few repayments or in unreasonably large amounts when 
to do so would have an adverse impact on the customers financial circumstances;
to pay a debt within an unreasonably short period of time or to raise funds to repay the 
debt by selling their property, borrowing money or increasing existing borrowing;
Furthermore, Miss M considered the £200 compensation I had awarded fell short of the 
amount she would have expected, especially given the legal costs she has incurred. She 
asked that I reconsider the amount of compensation. Miss M also said that I should be 
making a recommendation regarding her settlement proposal and as to how the situation 
with the outstanding debt should be resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the file again in its entirety and I have revisited my provisional decision in 
light of Miss Ms further comments. Having done so, I havent changed my conclusions about 
the outcome of the complaint.
I note that Miss M has asked that I make a recommendation about the settlement offer she 
made and set out how her situation should be resolved. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, it is not for this service to interfere with a lenders commercial judgement as long as 
it has been applied fairly. It is also not for us to make decisions on a business behalf and 
that would especially be the case where it is awaiting information to allow it to review its 
decision. I confirmed in my provisional decision that I was satisfied that NRAMs decision not 
to accept the offer was not unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances, and as such there is 
nothing more that I can reasonably say in relation to the settlement offer made by Miss M. 
As for the way forward, I confirmed in my provisional decision that the next step should be 
for Miss M to provide new evidence of her I&E, with supporting documentation if requested, 
so that discussions about a way forward can continue. 
As for the requirements by the FCA Miss M set out in her response to my provisional 
decision, I dont consider that they are directly relevant to the specifics of her complaint. 
NRAM said that based on the information she had provided it with, it thought she could make 
monthly payments toward the debt. That wasnt in breach of either of the quoted 
requirements. The next stage of that process would have been the discussion about what 
Miss M should pay, at which time the quoted requirements would have been relevant, but 
that part of the process has not happened yet. 
Miss M has again detailed how she believes the I&E should have been assessed, and again 
completed that assessment based on different information from that provided to NRAM. As I 
said in my provisional decision, we have to assess the matter based on the information 
NRAM had at the time it completed its assessment. In addition, having reviewed the relevant 
information, I cant find that NRAM reached an incorrect conclusion about Miss Ms finances 
at that time. Again, I would repeat that Miss M should provide up to date I&E information 
and, if required, supporting evidence, to NRAM for it to be able to complete a new 
assessment of her finances/circumstances to be able to move the matter forward.
Miss M has said the compensation payment I put forward in my provisional decision was 
inadequate, especially in light of the legal costs she has incurred. She didnt say what she 
considered to be a more suitable sum. I would firstly comment that while Miss M chose to 
have solicitors to assist her, we would not usually take the costs of such assistance into 
consideration when making awards. This is because there would have been alternative 
sources of assistance available that would not have involved those costs. No new evidence has been provided about the inconvenience or upset Miss M suffered and, having reviewed 
the matter again, I remain satisfied that £200 is an appropriate amount in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of the complaint, 
I require NRAM Limited to pay Miss M £200 compensation for its poor communication and 
the delays it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman