DRN-4213871
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide him with the information it should 
have when he took out a loan, paid the loan funds to an account it shouldnt have and didnt 
inform him about what was happening with the loan.
What happened
Your text here In 2003 Mr H took out a loan facility of £216,057 with Barclays to fund his 
subscription to a film partnership  Micro Fusion 2003-2 LLP (the partnership). He 
complained to Barclays about various matters relating to the loan through 2020. Barclays 
didnt uphold any of the complaints he made and he referred his complaint to our service. 
The investigator who looked into the complaint identified the following six issues Mr H had 
raised with Barclays.
1. He wasnt made aware that the loan was subject to a fixed rate and he wouldnt have 
agreed such a punitive fixed rate if he had been made aware of it. Barclays made no 
attempt to ensure the loan was affordable or offer alternatives.
2. The Loan Agreement failed to quantify the fixed rate.
3. Barclays havent provided any statements for the loan and havent recorded it on his 
credit file.
4. The purpose of the loan was to fund the film partnership but the loan monies werent 
paid into the partnership bank account but amalgamated with others and paid to a 
third-party bank (ABN Amro) and he should have at least been told of the divergence 
from what was originally agreed.
5. In 2010 Barclays replaced ABN Amro as the provider of the second-string security 
and he should have been notified of this and his approval sought.
6. Since replacing ABN Amro, Barclays has informed others that it has received no 
lease or other payments from the distributor, thereby putting the loan into default and 
causing his security to be called upon.
The investigator decided that the first three complaint issues had been referred to our 
service too late and as Mr H didnt agree the matter was referred to me to decide if we had 
jurisdiction to consider all of the issues raised by Mr H. 
I issued a decision on our jurisdiction in which I agreed with the investigator that the first 
three issues had been referred to us too late - save I thought we could consider the 
complaint that the loan had not been notified to credit reference agencies. I also thought we 
could consider the remaining three issues.
The investigator thereafter issued his opinion on the merits of the issues that were within our 
jurisdiction but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator so the matter was referred to me for a decision. I 
issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
and I set out my findings below with one amendment in the fifth paragraph which I have 
underlined to correct an obvious typographical error.
I think it is important to make clear that my role is to make a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the information provided by the parties taking into account relevant; law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; good industry 
practice where appropriate. My findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what is 
more likely, than not  and it is for me to decide how much weight to give any piece of 
evidence.
Mr H has raised several issues regarding the loan but has not provided any supporting 
evidence beyond his own statements. I note that he has suggested to the investigator that it 
would help if he was able to explain the position in person to him and/or me. I cant see that 
this is necessary or appropriate. His explanation as to what he thinks Barclays did wrong is 
clear enough, it just isnt persuasive.
I can hold a hearing if I am of the view that a complaint cannot fairly be determined without 
one, but I dont think I need a hearing in this case to fairly determine the complaint. Both 
parties have had the opportunity of providing written representations and documentation in 
support of what they have said and I am satisfied I can fairly determine this complaint on the 
information already provided. 
I note that Mr H has referred to not receiving account statements in support of what he has 
said in response to the investigators opinion. In the circumstances I want to make clear I am 
only considering those issues that I decided we had jurisdiction to consider and considered 
by the investigator. I have already found that the complaint about the statements not being 
provided has been made too late, so will not make any findings in relation to that in this 
decision.
Turning to those issues that I can consider, the first of these is that Barclays didnt record the 
loan on his credit file. However, I am not satisfied that Barclays had a duty to Mr H to notify 
credit reference agencies of the loan. In the absence of any explanation from Mr H as to how 
such a duty arose I am not satisfied it did anything wrong in not providing such notification.
In any event, there is no way of knowing what the consequences would have been if such 
notification had been given. I note Mr H has suggested he would have been able to monitor 
the ongoing repayment of the loan. However, this wouldnt have told him anything he didnt 
already think was the case - namely that interest payments were being made and he wasnt 
in default. 
His credit score may well have been positively impacted if the loan had been recorded, as he 
has suggested would have been the case. But what this might have resulted in, insofar as 
other borrowings and more advantageous credit terms are concerned, is completely 
speculative in my view.  
Furthermore, Mr Hs arguments suggests he would have checked his credit file regularly to 
see what was happening with the loan, in which case my finding in my jurisdiction decision 
that this complaint has been made in time  which was based on him having no reason to 
check his credit file more than three years before he complained  was wrong and this 
complaint has been made too late in any event. 
The second complaint issue is Mr Hs assertion that Barclays didnt utilise the loan monies 
as intended. I am mindful that he signed a Power of Attorney dated 12 August 2003 
appointing Future Films (Partnership Services) Limited as his attorney and giving it authority to do all acts and things and complete all documents in connection with his entering into the 
facility letter in respect of the loan facility. So, his direct involvement and knowledge of what 
happened in relation to the loan is likely to be limited.
Mr B has referred to the loan appearing not to have been used for the purpose specified in 
the facilities letter and to understanding the loan monies were paid direct to ABN Amro and 
sat on deposit. However, he hasnt provided any evidence to support what he has said and 
his statements of themselves arent persuasive. 
The facilities letter includes the following:
The borrower wishes to utilise the Facility to fund in whole or part the Borrowers initial 
capital contribution to the partnership and to fund interest payable on the first two years of 
the Loan. The Partnership will utilise such capital contributions in order to fund the 
production of the Film and to pay certain other costs of administration of the Partnership.
And:
The Loan is to be utilised by the Borrower to fund, in whole or in part, a partnership capital 
subscription to the Partnership (the Investment) in return for which the Borrower will 
acquire an interest in the Partnership.
Wherever Barclays made payment of the monies due under the facilities letter to, I have 
been provided with no persuasive evidence that such payment wasnt made in accordance 
with the purpose set out in facilities letter  namely to fund his capital subscription to the 
partnership.
I cant see how Barclays would be responsible if the partnership didnt then use the loan 
monies as intended. In other words, Barclays obligation was to make the loan monies 
available to Mr H, as part of his capital contribution to the partnership. What the partnership 
then did with the money was a matter for the partnership, not Barclays.
In any event, from the limited information I have seen, the monies appear to have been used 
as intended. The guarantee agreement between ABN Amro and the partnership refers to a 
distribution agreement dated 30 September 2003 with Daughter Productions LLC. through 
which that company was appointed to distribute the master print of a film entitled the 
Untitled Mandy Moore Project. 
The accounts for the partnership refer to its principal activity being acquiring and exploiting 
films and the accounts to 5 April 2005 show that it owned the rights to the film Chasing 
Liberty  a 2004 film starring Mandy Moore. So, it appears the partnership capital was used 
in the production of a film, as intended. 
Mr H has also complained he wasnt informed when ABN Amro stopped being the guarantor 
of the loan payments and that Barclays replaced ABN Amro without justification. The 
guarantee agreement dated 30 September 2003 was between ABN Amro as guarantor and 
the Beneficiary - which was the partnership along with any permitted assignee. Barclays 
was the assignee of the guarantee and therefore was  entitled to exercise the rights under 
the guarantee as Beneficiary. 
Those rights included the right to request, on the fifth anniversary of the guarantee - or at 
other times if certain conditions were met - that ABN Amro pay to an account at Barclays in 
the name of the distributor, an amount equal to the net amounts payable by the distributor. 
Barclays exercised its right under the relevant clause of the guarantee agreement and 
payment was made by ABN Amro and the guarantee was then terminated as a result. I note that Mr H has said that Barclays replaced ABN Amro as the second string security 
and did so without justification. Firstly, Barclays didnt replace ABN Amro as guarantor  the 
guarantee ended on payment of the net amount payable by the distributor into an account at 
Barclays. Secondly, Barclays doesnt need to justify what it did, given it was exercising its 
rights under the guarantee.
Mr H has said that the receipt by Barclays of the monies from ABN Amro calls into question 
the interest payable on the loan and therefore the tax relief he has been claiming. I have 
seen nothing that suggests Barclays exercising its rights under the guarantee to ask for 
payment of the amount remaining due from the distributor brought the loan agreement to an 
end or affected Mr Hs obligations under it. 
Barclays has explained, and I accept, that the payment of the net amount remaining due was 
to meet the distributors payment obligations as and when these arose. I am therefore not 
satisfied payment of the interest set out in the facilities letter is called into question or that 
the payment means the loan was repaid in full as Mr H has said he has been told is the 
case.
Given the payments currently being made to meet the interest payments are from the 
monies held by Barclays for that purpose I dont accept that Mr H is more exposed under the 
loan agreement as a result, such that Barclays needed to inform him that ABN Amro werent 
providing a guarantee any more. In other words, I am not satisfied that Barclays were 
required to notify Mr H of what it was doing, as it didnt affect his obligations under the loan 
in my view. 
For the reasons I have explained above, I am not satisfied that Barclays did anything wrong 
insofar as the complaint issues the subject of this decision are concerned.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional decision and providing 
any further information or evidence they wanted me to consider before making my final 
decision. Barclays didnt respond but Mr H disagreed with my findings. In short he made the 
following key points:
He reluctantly accepts but doesnt agree with my comments as to the out of time 
complaint issues but those issues and the ones I have addressed are damning proof 
that Barclays has failed in its duty of care him as a retail customer, which he doesnt 
believe I have addressed.
If the loan had been accurately recorded on his credit file he would have been able to 
ascertain the punitive interest rate which he maintains he wasnt aware of. Surely that 
is the purpose of banks recording loans on credit files.
As the partnerships bankers Barclays would have been fully aware that the loan 
monies were not paid, in whole or in part, to the studio/distributor. As no lease 
payments were ever paid under the lease agreement then clearly the loan monies 
werent sent to the studio/distributor.
He should have been told that Barclays called back the deposit from ABN Amro as 
this would have alerted him to the fact that the deposit was the loan monies which 
had clearly not been paid to the studio/distributor and he would have been able to 
ask Barclays to justify how they presented a better credit risk that ABN Amro.
He has been told that from a legal perspective when Barclays called back the 
guarantee it meant matched funds lent and deposited which he has been told means 
the loan has been repaid. If the loan has been repaid there is no justification for the deduction of qualifying loan interest (QLI) against any deemed or actual film 
partnership income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I made clear in my provisional decision, my findings are made on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely, than not  and it is for me to decide how much weight to 
give any piece of evidence. I have taken account of everything that Mr H has said in 
response to my provisional decision but he has not provided any new information or 
evidence that would lead me to change the findings set out in my provisional decision, which 
form part of this final decision. 
Mr H has said that the issues he has raised - including the ones I am unable to consider 
because I have found they were raised too late and so are outside our jurisdiction - are 
damning evidence that Barclays failed in its duty of care to him as a retail client and that I 
havent addressed this. I dont accept his argument. I have addressed whether Barclays did 
anything wrong in respect of those issues raised by Mr H which I am able to consider and 
have concluded it didnt  in other words I have found it didnt fail in its responsibilities to him 
as a retail client in respect of those issues.
I will briefly comment on the points he has made, although these largely repeat arguments 
previously made by him which I have already considered when making my provisional 
decision.
Mr H has provided no evidence that would support a finding that Barclays had a duty to him 
to provide information to credit reference agencies and I am not satisfied any such duty 
existed, as I have previously said.
There is no persuasive evidence that the loan monies werent used as intended as set out in 
the facilities letter - namely to fund Mr Hs capital contribution to the partnership which then 
acquired film rights licensed to the distributor named in the guarantee. The fact that ABN 
Amro made payments due from the distributor to the partnership doesnt in my view provide 
evidence that the loan monies werent used as intended, contrary to what Mr H has said. 
Mr H has also said that he should have been informed that Barclays had called back the 
deposit from ABN Amro as this would have alerted him to the fact that the deposit was the 
loan monies and that these hadnt been paid to the studio/distributor. I have already found 
that there is no persuasive evidence that the loan monies werent used as intended. In any 
event, even if this information would have led Mr H to conclude differently, I am not 
persuaded that Barclays had any obligation to inform him that it had exercised its rights 
under the guarantee through which ABN Amro was required to pay to it the maximum 
amount payable under the guarantee at that time. 
The effect of this was that the monies payable by the distributor to the partnership and used 
to make the loan payments have been made from the Barclays account in the name of the 
distributor instead of by ABN Amro. Mr Hs position so far as his loan is concerned didnt 
change as a result of this. I note he has once again referred to being able to ask Barclays to 
justify why it was a better credit risk than ABN Amro but it didnt have to justify to him the 
exercise of its rights under the guarantee.
Mr H has said he has been told that the payment by ABN Amro to Barclays means that the 
loan has been repaid. He hasnt provided any further information or evidence to support this. It is Barclays case that the loan hasnt been repaid and the money paid by ABN Amro is 
held in an account in the name of the distributor with payments being made as and when 
these are due, as I have already referred to. The payment by ABN Amro to Barclays brought 
the guarantee to an end but this doesnt mean the loan was also brought to an end and in 
the absence of any persuasive evidence this was the case I am not satisfied that it did.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman