DRN-4294495
The complaint
Mr W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) cancelled his telematics 
motor insurance policy. Mr W is represented in this matter by Mrs W, a named driver on his 
policy. 
What happened
RSA cancelled Mr Ws policy because it said he had one bad speeding event and the 
policys terms and conditions entitled it to then cancel the policy. Mrs W was unhappy that 
RSA had breached Mr Ws privacy by discussing the event with her. And she wanted to see 
the evidence of the speeding event. RSA provided details of the event. But it said it shouldnt 
have discussed this with Mrs W without Mr Ws consent. It paid Mr W £100 and Mrs W £50 
compensation for this and reported the breach to its data team. But Mrs W remained 
unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He saw evidence 
that Mr W had significantly exceeded the speed limit on one occasion. He thought the 
policys terms and conditions allowed RSA to then cancel the policy. He thought RSA had 
acknowledged that it shouldnt have discussed the event with Mrs W without Mr Ws 
permission. But he thought its compensation for this was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs W replied that RSAs refund of premium was insufficient for the time on cover. Mrs W 
asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W felt frustrated that his policy was cancelled after only a few 
weeks, and he lost most of his £700 deposit. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
RSA relied on the terms and conditions under Unacceptable Driving Behaviour to cancel 
Mr Ws policy. I can see that the policys introduction, which was sent to Mr W when he took 
out the policy, states:
What happens if I speed?
If we see dangerous levels of speeding we'll send you an email to encourage you to take 
control. Repeated speeding can result in cancellation and one really bad speeding event can 
result in cancellation without any warning.
So I think RSA made Mr W sufficiently aware of the policys terms and conditions regarding 
bad speeding events. And Ive seen the data that RSA relied upon, and I can see that RSAs 
data team validated this and checked the raw data for accuracy. This shows that Mr W 
significantly exceeded the 30 mph speed limit on one occasion. And so I think it was fair and 
reasonable for RSA to then invoke the policy condition and cancel the policy with seven 
days notice. 
Mrs W was unhappy with the return of premium Mr W received following the cancellation. I 
can see that the cancellation terms are clearly set out on page 13 in the policys document 
pack. The £150 telematics fee and £30 arrangement fee are non-refundable. And, in the 
case of cancellation after 14 days, the premium will be refunded on a pro-rata basis with a 
sliding scale. This takes into account the higher risk at the start of the policy when the driver 
is less experienced. This is clearly set out in a table. 
So I think these terms were sufficiently brought to Mr Ws attention when he took out his 
policy. And I think its fair and reasonable for RSA to apply them. Ive checked the refund he 
was given, and I think this was accurately calculated. 
Mrs W was concerned about RSAs response to its breach of Mr Ws personal data when it 
discussed the speeding event with her. As our Investigator explained, the Information 
Commissioners Office decides on matters of data protection. But I can see that RSA 
acknowledged the error and has informed its data protection team in keeping with its 
procedures. Im satisfied that its payments of compensation are fair and reasonable for any 
impact the error had. I dont require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman