DRN-3610782
The complaint
Mr D, trading as L, complains about the decision of The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited in relation to his claim for business interruption losses resulting 
from the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended only as a summary of the key events. Additionally, whilst other 
parties have been involved in the correspondence around this claim and complaint, I have 
just referred to Mr D and NFUM for the sake of simplicity.
Mr D operates a self-catering holiday home business, consisting of two properties, and held 
a commercial insurance policy underwritten by NFUM. In March 2020, as a result of the 
government-imposed restrictions introduced in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr D had 
to close his business. He claimed under the business interruption section of his policy.
Ultimately, NFUM accepted that cover was provided for the claim. The cover was limited to 
£10,000 per event, per property. NFUM said there were two claimable events, starting in 
March 2020 (lockdown one) and then in September 2020 (rule of six), and paid Mr D a total 
of £40,000  two properties and two events.
Mr D was not satisfied with this, and considered there to have been a third event  starting 
on 4 July 2020  that impacted one of his properties. Mr D explained that this property is 
larger than his other one, and income from this larger property was limited due to restrictions 
that were introduced in July 2020 on more than two households staying together overnight. 
This restriction led to cancellations, and losses which were only partly recovered by booking 
some smaller numbers of guests.
NFUM did not consider that any further settlement was due under the policy though. Its 
position is that the restrictions that ran from 4 July were not a separate event to lockdown 
one. It has said that whilst Mr D was able to reopen his properties, this was on a restricted 
basis, so this first event continued beyond the end of the actual lockdown.
Mr D brought his complaint to the Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator noted that the 
policy did not define what any one event should mean, but felt that a fair and reasonable 
outcome was not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. She felt that there needed to have been a 
restriction imposed on Mr Ds business. But that the restrictions introduced in July 2020 
were placed on the general public rather than Mr Ds business. 
Mr D remained unsatisfied and so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
Having considered the circumstances, including the policy, I did not entirely agree with our 
Investigators conclusions or reasoning. I agreed with our Investigator that there needed to 
have been some sort of quantifiable impact on the relevant business, but was not persuaded 
that there needed to have been a restriction imposed on the business itself. 
So, I contacted NFUM and set out my provisional reasoning on the complaint. I said that 
lockdown one had come to an end at the start of July, when the regulations that had 
imposed the lockdown measures were revoked. However, as a result of cases of COVID-19 
- presumably during June 2020 - the Government introduced new guidance. This included a 
recommended limitation on the numbers and makeup of those who could stay together 
overnight at holiday accommodation. I said that, if this new guidance caused a loss of profit, 
then this would seem to be a new event for the purposes of the policy. And that I thought 
NFUM should reassess Mr Ds claim on this basis.
I also pointed NFUM towards a number of court cases and the judgments from these that 
had been handed down after the Investigators opinion. These included Stonegate Pub 
Company Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) 
(Stonegate), and Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) 
(Greggs). These judgments had made some findings on whether policyholders could bring 
more than one claim in relation to business interruption caused by the pandemic.
NFUM responded, disagreeing with my provisional reasoning. It said that the judgments in 
Stonegate and Greggs, along with that in Corbin & King v Axa [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) 
(Corbin & King) actually supported its position. And that it remained satisfied that it had 
limited the settlement of Mr Ds claims fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as I have outlined above. 
Mr Ds policy wording provides cover for loss of profit caused by an interruption to Mr Ds 
holiday accommodation business as a result of, in part:
food or drink poisoning, or any HUMAN DISEASE if it must be reported to the local 
authority. The illness or disease may be:
- at YOUR HOLIDAY HOME;
- within 25 miles of YOUR HOLIDAY HOME;
- traced back to food or drink supplied from YOUR HOLIDAY HOME
The policy contains a definition of HUMAN DISEASE that is limited to certain, specified 
diseases. However, NFUM has taken the proactive stance that, due to wording contained in 
other policy documents, this definition should be read broadly and should include COVID-19. 
So, effectively, if COVID-19 has occurred at Mr Ds holiday accommodation or within 25 
miles of it, and this has caused an interruption to his business, cover is provided. 
NFUM should be commended for its decision here. But this does not mean that its decision 
with regard to the issue at hand is correct.
The policy provides cover under this section for up to 12 months loss of profit, but the cover 
is capped at £10,000 per claim and £50,000 for the whole year. NFUM has already accepted 
that Mr D has valid claims under the policy, and has paid out £40,000 relating to four 
separate claims, as set out above. So, all that remains in dispute is whether or not a 
separate claim should apply to the period from 4 July 2020, or whether losses in this period 
were a continuation of the claim starting in March 2020  and so already subject to the 
£10,000 cap. It has not been disputed that there were likely further occurrences of COVID-19 within the 
radius of Mr Ds accommodation after March 2020. I make no finding on this point, as it is 
not one that has been argued and potentially it remains for Mr D to evidence this to NFUM. 
But, given the size of the geographical area and the location of the premises in question, I 
believe it is reasonable for the moment to proceed on the basis that it is quite likely that there 
were occurrences of COVID-19 within the 25-mile radius of the accommodation throughout 
most of the rest of 2020. This allows me to consider whether, assuming there was such an 
occurrence, NFUM came to a fair and reasonable outcome on Mr Ds claim.
Our Investigator has said that there would only be a valid claim where there was a restriction 
imposed on an insured business following a relevant occurrence of COVID-19. I do not 
entirely agree with this, as I have set out above. However, I do think there needs to have 
been some quantifiable impact from the relevant occurrence. I consider this is most easily 
identified where there has been the introduction of new rules or guidance that has 
detrimentally impacted the relevant business  either because the measures were imposed 
on that business or because they materially interfered with the ability of the business to 
operate as it normally would. As far as this relates to this particular case, I consider this 
would be an event that had caused an interruption to a relevant business.
Given the findings of the Supreme Court in the FCA test case1, each individual occurrence of 
COVID-19 was capable of being a proximate cause of government-imposed restrictions. 
However, I consider it is only restrictions that were introduced soon after the relevant 
occurrence that would have been caused, in part, by that occurrence. For example, the 
occurrences in March 2020 were not the proximate cause of the restrictions introduced in 
September 2020. This again is not in dispute, as is demonstrated by NFUMs agreement to 
settle the claims for the period starting in September 2020. 
Also, as set out in the judgments of certain court cases I will refer to in more depth below, 
merely renewing or slightly amended existing guidance would not be considered an event 
that had caused an interruption. 
It is evident that, by July 2020, the number of new COVID-19 occurrences was lower than it 
was in March 2020. This meant the Government felt able to remove the majority of 
restrictions. However, the number of COVID-19 cases occurring around this time also meant 
that the Government introduced other restrictions. 
Up until 4 July 2020, holiday accommodation businesses had been forced to cease 
operations during the emergency period. At the date in question, this was a result of 
regulation 5 of the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020. 
This regulation had been renewed and slightly amended over the preceding months, for 
example to allow accommodation to be offered to certain limited groups; elite athletes, etc. 
Breaching these regulations was against the law. I consider these amendments to the 
regulations would be considered as trivial changes or those that reduced the impact of the 
existing restrictions. 
On 4 July, these restrictions were completely removed as far as they related to holiday 
accommodation businesses. The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (No. 2) 
(England) Regulations 2020 fully removed these restrictions and revoked the previous 
regulations. Similar restrictions were introduced/continued in relation to other types of 
business, such as indoor gyms, nightclubs, and beauty salons. But, by law, the only 
restriction impacting holiday accommodation was that groups of more than 30 people could 
not gather. 
1 The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1However, the Government did provide advice for accommodation providers2. This said that 
people should not stay overnight with members of more than one household; effectively 
limiting the numbers of households staying in holiday accommodation to two households at a 
time. As Mr D has said, this advice then had an impact on his ability to rent out his larger 
premises at a full price. It should be noted that the measures outlined in the guidance were 
announced in mid-June3, but only became applicable on 4 July 2020. I have referred to this 
later date as being when the guidance was introduced, as this describes the date the 
guidance came into force. 
The question is, was the introduction of this new guidance a new insured event. 
At this point it is necessary to consider the relevant case law, including Stonegate, Greggs, 
and Corbin & King referred to above. 
NFUM has referred to the judgments in Corbin & King and the judgments in Stonegate and 
Greggs, two cases heard alongside each other. Also heard alongside this was Various 
Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE). These 
cases considered a number of matters, but they included comments around whether it was 
possible for the policyholders involved to make multiple claims on their policies for the 
various, different restrictions. As such, they are of relevance to Mr Ds complaint. Ill refer to 
these collectively as the multiple-claim cases and judgments. 
However, before referring to the comments made in these multiple-claim judgments that 
were particularly relevant, I consider it is important to point out some of the features relevant 
to these cases and the differences with Mr Ds complaint. 
The judge in the three cases heard alongside each other specifically said that, whilst the 
policyholders had referred to a large number of changes to the restrictions impacting their 
businesses, he was not going through each of these to say whether each was a relevant 
event. So, whilst he did make comments about some of the occasions when the restrictions 
changed, the fact that he did not say whether the introduction of the guidance referred to 
above on 4 July 2020 would or would not have constituted a relevant event, is not in itself 
conclusive.
And, as NFUM has itself said, the claimant in Corbin & King did not bring a claim in relation 
to the period from 4 July 2020, so whether it would potentially have been possible to claim 
for this period was not something the judge in this case was required to consider. That 
Corbin & King had not brought this claim, does not automatically mean that another claimant 
 with a different policy and different circumstances  would not be successful with their 
claim.
Additionally, the multiple-claim cases related to policyholders who were restaurants/food 
providers and pubs. Mr D is a provider of self-catered holiday accommodation. As such, at 
certain times, different restrictions would have applied to Mr D as to the parties in the 
multiple-claim cases. This is particularly relevant, as the guidance brought in on 4 July 2020 
applied to persons staying overnight. So, it would not have impacted a restaurant, etc. but 
would have impacted an accommodation provider (depending on their circumstances). As 
such, I would not have expected the judges in the multiple-claims cases to have referred to 
these restrictions. 
2 
https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/ukgwa/20200901154230/https://www.gov.uk/guidance/covi
d-19-advice-for-accommodation-providers 
3 
https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/ukgwa/20200701162606/https://www.gov.uk/government/p
ublications/staying-alert-and-safe-social-distancing/staying-alert-and-safe-social-distancing-after-4-july However, the judge in the three cases heard together in particular, did make some 
comments that are useful when considering whether a policyholder can make more than one 
claim under a policy and what circumstances may allow, and prevent, this. 
NFUM has referred to paragraph 192 of the Stonegate judgment, which said:
I would not regard the review and renewal of the 26 March Regulations in England, 
Wales and Scotland which occurred in April, May and June 2020 as having been 
separate occurrences, for the reasons given in paragraph [86] of my Judgment in the 
Greggs Action.
And paragraph 86 of the Greggs judgment:
I do not consider that an informed observer would have regarded announcements 
or measures which simply continued existing restrictions or made trivial changes as 
being separate single occurrences for the purposes of the SBIL definition. I do not 
believe that it conforms to the parties intentions to have aggregation by reference to 
such matters, which effectively continued a status quo rather than marking any 
significant change to it. Nor would I consider that an informed observer would have 
regarded changes which simply reduced restrictions as being separate single 
occurrences for the purposes of the definition. They were such as would of their 
nature be expected to reduce losses not to lead to them and thus would not 
constitute the type of matter which would sensibly be regarded as a factor unifying 
different losses.
NFUM has relied on this to argue that the changes on 4 July 2020 acted to reduce the 
restrictions that applied, and so should not be considered to be an event leading to a 
separate claim. 
NFUM say the 4 July 2020 regulations were expected to reduce losses not to lead to them. I 
do not dispute that this is the case in relation to the Health Protection (Coronavirus, 
Restrictions) (No. 2) (England) Regulations 2020 specifically. I agree that these regulations 
removed the majority of relevant restrictions. However, Mr D is not claiming because of the 
impact these regulations had on his business. Mr Ds business was impacted by the 
guidance that was introduced separately from these regulations. 
I note that there is a somewhat persuasive argument that the changes brought in on 4 July, 
both the regulations and other guidance, were a collective bundle of measures which were 
introduced in response to the same occurrences of COVID-19. The regulations were brought 
in because the rate of infection, and hence the number of occurrences, had decreased. But 
some occurrences were still taking place which meant that the Government felt the guidance 
was necessary. 
However, I consider this is somewhat nuanced. Thinking about the reasoning in the FCA test 
case, whilst it can clearly be seen that a particular occurrence of COVID-19 was a proximate 
cause of the guidance, as well as certain aspects of the new regulations  for example the 
restriction on nightclubs  the revocation of the existing regulations was due to an absence 
of (as many) occurrences. 
Additionally, whilst not overly persuasive to my mind, it is arguable that there was a break 
between the lockdown period and the application of the guidance to people staying at Mr Ds 
accommodation. The restriction on Mr D opening his premises ended at 00.01 am on 4 July 
2020, when regulation 5 was revoked. It isnt entirely clear when the advice for more than 
two households not to stay overnight became applicable. But certainly this would not apply 
to Mr Ds until after he had opened his premises and presumably not until the night of that 
day, which would at the earliest have been some time later that day. As I say, I dont find this overly persuasive from a holistic point of view, but it is supportive of there being a difference 
between the lockdown restrictions and the household-limit.
However, I do think further comments of the judge in Greggs are significant. He said, at 
paragraph 88:
in cases where restrictions were imposed on limited areas of the country, I would 
regard these as being separate occurrences. Thus I consider that an informed 
observer would regard the restrictions applied to some parts of Leicester on 4 July 
2020 as being a single occurrence.
The judge in Greggs considered that the introduction of restrictions in Leicester would 
constitute a new event, even though these were essentially a continuation of the restrictions 
imposed on Leicester, as well as the wider nation, that formed the lockdown one restrictions. 
It is hard to see that these were, on the face of it, anything other than continuing or making 
trivial changes to existing restrictions as they applied to Leicester, or part of a reduction of 
the restrictions as they applied to the whole country. But, whilst I cannot be sure of the 
judges reasoning here, he presumably considered this could constitute a new event 
because this change was significant in the overall context of the restrictions applied to the 
country.
The guidance introduced on 4 July 2020 which impacted Mr Ds business was not limited to 
a particular area of the country. But it was limited to impacting a particular type of business. 
The impact, from a commercial perspective, of the overnight stay measures in the guidance 
was specific to accommodation providers. This was a significant departure from restrictions 
requiring businesses across various industries, across the entire country to remain closed.
Whilst this change may have meant the overall impact on Mr Ds business decreased, I dont 
consider that this is scenario the judge in Greggs, at paragraph 86 above, was likely 
envisaging. The type of restriction that applied to Mr Ds business was significantly different 
as a result of the change.
It is possible that I am wrong in my assessment of the legal position here. However, as well 
as taking into account the law, I am required to consider all of the circumstances of a 
complaint in order to determine what I consider to be fair and reasonable. In this regard, I am 
not necessarily bound by the law. So, even if I am incorrect and a court would not conclude 
that the introduction of the relevant guidance to be a new event capable of leading to a 
claim, I consider that it is fair and reasonable, in the circumstances of this complaint, that this 
should be considered such an event in Mr Ds claim. 
I consider that these restrictions were significantly different to the restrictions that existed up 
to that point, to constitute this being a new event that was capable of leading to a claim. 
Previously, Mr D was unable to operate his business at all. Following the change, he was 
fully able to open his business, but was impacted by the guidance directed at guests that 
had not previously existed. 
It follows that I consider Mr Ds claim was unfairly and unreasonably limited, and that NFUM 
should reassess it on the basis that the introduction of the guidance on 4 July 2020 
constituted a new event.
Putting things right
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited should reassess Mr Ds 
claim on the basis that there was a separate claim period commencing on 4 July 2020.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman