DRN-4115286
The complaint
Miss H complains Metro Bank PLC (trading as RateSetter) recorded incorrect adverse
information on her credit file.
What happened
In October 2022 Miss H contacted Metro to explain she would be unable to make her
payment in November as she was changing jobs and therefore the date she received her
salary would be changing. Metro explained they could put a short term hold in place which
meant she didnt need to make her payment in November, and she could make up her
arrears later on.
Miss H says she was told the short-term hold wouldnt impact her credit file so she agreed to
it. However, Metro recorded an arrangement on her credit file, which she says has impacted
her financially. Metro say they made it clear to Miss H the short-term hold would be recorded
as an arrangement on her credit file.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Metro told Miss H that the short-term hold
would be recorded as an arrangement on her credit file but that Metro failed to explain that
she should seek advice if she was concerned about the impact on her credit file, so he
awarded £300.
Metro disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued a provisional 
decision, an extract of which is included below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Short-term hold
The key piece of evidence here is the phone call recording between Miss H and 
Metro where the short-term hold was discussed. Ive listened to this call.
It was clear that Miss Hs credit file was important to her because she asked 
questions about the impact the short-term hold would have on her credit file on a 
number of occasions during the phone call.
Metro explained Miss Hs credit file will show that she is in an arrangement with them 
which will show as an I. And that whilst the loan isnt paid, itll be in arrears but 
because a short term hold has been agreed itll show as an arrangement. So I think 
Metro did communicate to Miss H what would be showing on her credit file. But I 
dont think Miss H realised this would have a detrimental impact as this wasnt 
explicitly communicated to her by Metro. And its evident Miss H didnt really 
understand because she asked about her credit file again in the call.
Later on in the call Miss H says so even though itll be arrears on my account it wont
actually affect my credit file. Metro reply to say no, itll just show like I say, in an
arrangement. I think this particular part of the call was inaccurate because Metro 
answered no to Miss Hs question. And I think this gave the impression Miss Hs 
credit file wouldnt be impacted. Metro also added itll just show like I say, in an 
arrangement, which had been discussed with Miss H earlier on in the call. Although 
Metro had communicated to her thats what would show on her credit file, Metro 
didnt follow this up to clarify her credit file would be adversely impacted before the 
call ended.
So taking everything into account, I think Metro had the opportunity to explain an
arrangement would have an adverse impact on her credit file when she asked, but it 
failed to do so.
Miss H went ahead with the short-term hold but she says had she known her credit 
file would be impacted she would have asked friends and family for money to cover 
the payment that was due. I think this is likely because Miss Hs credit file was 
important to her, and as I understand it, Miss H borrowed money from family and 
friends in order to make one of her payments after the short-term hold had been in 
place. So I think had Metro been clearer, Miss H wouldnt have accepted the short 
term hold and her credit file therefore wouldnt have been impacted.
Redress- credit file
I think Miss H wouldve avoided adverse information being recorded on her credit file 
had Metro been clearer with her about the impact of the short-term hold. Its my 
understanding that Miss H bought her account up to date in January 2023 so Metro 
has recorded adverse information up until that date. It follows that I think Metro 
should remove any adverse information it reported from October 2022 until January 
2023 as this will put Miss H in the position she wouldve been in had she not gone 
ahead with the short term hold.
Redress- financial loss
Miss H has said the impact of the adverse information has caused her to incur a 
financial loss. She says she holds a credit card account elsewhere and that her limit 
reduced significantly as a result of the adverse information Metro recorded. Shes 
said she was intending on using this credit card account for a balance transfer but is 
now unable to do so because the limit has been reduced. As a result, she is now 
paying higher interest, and will be for some time.
Ive not seen any evidence to show Miss Hs credit card limit was reduced purely 
because of the adverse information recorded by Metro, or that she is worse off 
financially because shes been unable to carry out the balance transfer. And there is 
no guarantee her credit limit would have remained indefinitely. So as it stands, I dont 
intend to award Miss H any financial loss regarding her credit card interest.
Redress- compensation
I have however considered the distress and inconvenience this has caused to Miss H 
and I think the impact of the adverse information had a greater impact than it may 
have ordinarily caused to someone else in this situation.
I say this because it was clear during the phone call that Miss Hs credit file was 
important to her. She asked questions about the impact of the short-term hold on a number of occasions. Towards the end of the call Miss H asks a further question 
about whether her credit file would be impacted, and Metro answered no, so I can 
understand why Miss H had the impression her credit file wouldnt be adversely 
impacted.
In Miss Hs mind, shed done what she could to ensure her credit file wouldnt be 
adversely impacted by the short-term hold. So I realise this was very upsetting and 
disappointing for her when it transpired this wasnt the case. And I can understand 
why Miss H was taken by surprise when she discovered the information recorded by 
Metro had impacted her adversely.
I am also aware that Miss H faced further frustrations, for example when Metro 
incorrectly advised her they were reporting incorrect information on her credit file and 
that they were reflecting the payment as late, which was incorrect. I can understand 
why Miss H would have been concerned about this, and that it also added confusion 
at the time. I can see that there were a number of phone calls about this in December 
where Miss H had to repeat herself and she wasnt given an accurate answer by 
Metro. Metro offered Miss H £25 to put this right but Miss H remained unhappy. Its 
my understanding that this hasnt been paid to date.
Taking everything into account, I think Metro should pay Miss H £300 (including the 
£25 already offered) for the distress and inconvenience it caused to her overall.
Metro and Miss H replied to say they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC (trading as RateSetter) 
should pay Miss H £300 in total and remove the adverse information it has recorded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman