DRN-3686769
The complaint
Company E (E) complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) restricted, and then 
immediately closed its account. 
What happened
In January 2022, Santander placed Es account under review and restricted activity on it - E 
was unable to access its funds. E said Santanders actions impacted its ability to carry out 
important business transactions, causing it financial loss.  
Unhappy with Santanders actions, E complained. Santander did not uphold Es complaint. 
In short, in its response of February 2022, Santander said: 
- It has important legal and regulatory obligations which may require it to withhold 
transactions or services, or block accounts 
- It is not always possible to provide customers with an explanation 
Around the same time, Santander wrote to the director of E, and said it had decided to close 
the account. Santander said it had done so under the terms of the account and does not 
have to give E a reason. It enclosed a cheque for the closing balance. 
Es director said he couldnt bank the cheque as Santanders business account was the only 
one it had. So the director asked Santander to issue a new cheque made out to them. E 
referred its complaint to this service.  
Santander re-issued and sent a cheque made out to Es director personally. One of our 
Investigators then looked into Es complaint. In summary, they found: 
- To meet its legal and regulatory obligations, Santander may carry out reviews of its 
customers accounts  and it may block an account whilst it does this 
- Santander hasnt caused E any avoidable delays during this process
- Santander didnt act incorrectly when closing Es account in the way it did  and did 
so in line with the terms of the account. And it doesnt need to give E an explanation 
as to why
E did not agree with what our Investigator said. Its director questioned the accuracy of some 
of the dates our Investigator had written in their outcome  which included when a second 
cheque was sent to it. In the main, he said Santander had blocked his account for about two 
and a half months, and the funds in them were held for that long. Es director has also said 
this matter has personally caused him significant trouble and upset.
As E remained unhappy, its complaint has now been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Santander, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order 
to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Santander has explained, and given me information, which Im satisfied shows it had reason 
enough to have placed Es account under review  and, importantly, that it was acting in line 
with the legal and regulatory obligations placed on it. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Santander and E had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving E at least two months notice. And in certain circumstances 
it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Santander closed the account with immediate effect in early February 2022. So I need to 
consider if it acted fairly by doing this and did so in line with its terms of account. Ive thought 
very carefully about this  given closing an account in this way is a more elevated action for 
a bank to take. 
Based on the information Ive seen, and Santanders explanation, Im persuaded, on 
balance, that it acted fairly, and in line with the terms of the account when doing so. I know E 
would like an explanation  but neither Santander nor I, are under obligation, that Im aware 
of, to do so. 
I note E doesnt agree the account was closed in early February 2022, and that it was 
blocked for some two and a half months from January 2022. 
But I have seen a copy of the letter Santander say it sent to E explaining it was closing the 
account immediately - this is dated 3 February 2022. I have also seen a screenshot from 
Santanders internal systems. And, Im satisfied this shows the account was closed in early 
February 2022. 
Ive also seen a copy of the cheque Santander sent to Es director to replace the one 
addressed to E. This is dated 17 February 2022. So I think the dates our Investigator relied 
on were accurate. But I can understand why Es director feels this matter went on for much 
longer  and I can understand that from receiving the cheque and then banking it, there 
would have been further wait for it to realise the funds. 
Having carefully considered all the sequence of events, Im satisfied Santander did not 
cause any avoidable delay. So it does not need to pay E any compensation for this. 
For the sake of completeness, I note Es director wants Santander to pay him compensation 
for the distress this caused him and his family. I havent found that Santander did anything 
wrong, so I wouldnt award any redress for this. But this point is moot here  thats because Es director is a separate legal entity to E. So I 
couldnt award compensation to him personally for any distress caused under the rules I 
must work under. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman