DRN-3983011
The complaint
Mr D complains that Wise Payments Ltd has declined to refund payments that he says he 
made as part of an investment scam.
What happened
Mr D says that in June 2022 he fell victim to a sophisticated investment scam. Between 
19 July and 18 August 2022 Mr D made eight card payments to a cryptocurrency platform, 
totalling over £11,000. From there he made payments to a third-party company that he now 
believes to be fraudulent. Mr D also made a further payment on 20 September 2022 that he 
has not specifically disputed but may have been part of the same scam.
When Mr D reported the scam to Wise, it declined to refund the payments. It said Mr D had 
authorised the payments and so he wasnt entitled to a refund. Wise added that it had tried 
to recall the payments, but the merchant didnt respond, and that it didnt think a chargeback 
would be successful in the circumstances.
Mr D complained and said that Wise had a duty of care towards him and that it should have 
done more to identify the transactions as suspicious and to protect him from financial harm.
Wise didnt agree, it said it wasnt foreseeable that the transactions were fraudulent. The 
payments were verified and that it wasnt its role to undertake due diligence on third parties 
who werent its customers.
When Mr D referred the matter to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary they said that Mr D had authorised the payments and that they didnt think Wise 
had failed in its obligations to identify and prevent potentially fraudulent payments because 
the disputed payments wouldnt have appeared suspicious at the time.
Mr D didnt agree, he said he had never bought cryptocurrency before and that the total 
amount he sent in a short amount of time did represent an increase in spending from his 
normal activity. Mr D also highlighted an FCA (the Financial Conduct Authority) warning 
about the cryptocurrency platform.
The investigator and a colleague responded that Wise is an electronic money institution 
(EMI) and that its common for the type of account Mr D holds to be used to transfer large 
amounts and for payments to cryptocurrency platforms. They also explained that the warning 
Mr D referenced was for a company in the same group as the cryptocurrency platform paid 
here and that the warning set out that purchasing cryptocurrency isnt a regulated activity  it 
didnt say that the company was not a legitimate company.
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for fundamentally the same reasons as the 
investigators gave previously. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr D as he has lost a 
significant amount of money, and Ill explain why I dont think it would be fair to hold Wise 
responsible for this.
It isnt in dispute that Mr D made the disputed payments and so they were authorised. This 
means the starting point under the relevant regulations is that Wise was expected to execute 
those payments without undue delay. 
Mr D is correct that Wise also has certain duties to protect its customers, including against 
the risk of financial loss due to fraud. And that it should have systems in place to identify 
unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its customers are at risk of fraud.
Here, Wise didnt identify the activity as potentially fraudulent, so Ive considered whether the 
disputed payments here were so unusual or suspicious that they ought to have given Wise 
sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud. Having done so, I dont think they were for the 
following reasons:
The amount of each disputed payment ranges from £1,180 to £1,990. As Mr D had 
previously made payments for similar amounts, for example £1,500 and £1,600 in 
March 2022 from his Wise account, I dont think the payment amounts would have 
appeared unusual.
The payment amounts are also not particularly large in themselves, to be considered 
high risk or suspicious.
Mr D has said he paid out around £7,500 in the first 17 days of August which he 
thinks represents an increase on his previous spend. Whilst in hindsight we can 
identify a series of payments which grouped together total a larger amount, I need to 
consider whether each payment would have appeared suspicious at the time it was 
made. For me to conclude that Wise ought to have intervened, there would need to 
be a specific payment that would have appeared suspicious or uncharacteristic at the 
time.
The disputed payments are spread out over the course of over a month. The 
amounts dont significantly increase and in terms of frequency mostly there is only 
one per day, with occasionally two being made. There are also gaps, for example no 
payments are made between 3rd and 15th August 2022. This pattern of spending is 
not particularly suspicious. 
I would not expect the warning Mr D has highlighted to have a been cause for 
concern to Wise, as while it related to a business in the same group as the payee, it 
would be well known to Wise that purchasing cryptocurrency isnt a regulated activity. 
I appreciate Mr D says hed never sent money to a cryptocurrency platform before. 
But given Wise is an EMI, it would also not have been unusual for it to be instructed 
to make payments to a cryptocurrency platform. So, I dont think this is enough on its 
own to have made the payments appear suspicious.
For the reasons explained, I dont think Barclays has failed in its obligations by not 
identifying the payments as potentially fraudulent.
In terms of the steps Wise took once Mr D had reported the scam, I can see it attempted to 
recall Mr Ds funds and that this was unsuccessful. For completeness I agree that it would be 
unlikely that a chargeback would have been successful as Mr D did receive the service from the cryptocurrency platform. It was a separate third-party company that operated the scam. 
Mr D has mentioned the contingent reimbursement model (CRM), please note this isnt 
relevant to card payments which is how the disputed payments were made. So, I dont think 
theres anything further Wise ought to have done in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman