DRN-3090891
The complaint
 Mr M complains about a fixed term loan provided to him by Logbook Money Limited 
Logbook Money, which he says was unaffordable.
 
What happened
 Mr M was given a single loan by Logbook Money. He borrowed £1900 in April 2019 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 48 monthly instalments. The loan was secured against Mr Ms 
vehicle. Mr M made the first few repayments but then found it difficult to make any more and 
he fell into arrears. 
Logbook Money took possession of Mr Ms vehicle on which the loan was secured. The 
vehicle was sold at auction. The proceeds of the auction were used to repay Mr Ms loan.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think Logbook 
loans made a fair lending decision based on what it had in front of it. So, he didnt think 
Logbook Money should have lent to Mr M and set out some steps that the lender needed to 
follow to put things right.
Our investigator said that Logbook Money should find the market value of the vehicle as 
suggested by industry guides. Then use this amount, subtract the capital amount lent to Mr 
M and then with the difference add 8% interest. 
Logbook Money agreed with our investigators findings and made an offer to Mr M, but this 
was not in line with our investigators view. It used the amount of money it sold the vehicle 
for at auction rather than use a valuation given in a guide. Its initial offer, it says was 
incorrect and it increased it as it checked again how much the vehicle sold for. 
Logbook Money also said that its records from the time showed that Mr Ms car was in a 
poor state when it was repossessed. It pointed to this as a reason why the vehicle didnt 
realise as much as an independent guide would say it was worth. 
Mr M didnt accept Logbook Moneys offer and says the vehicle is worth a lot more than the 
amount it realised at auction.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Logbook Money has accepted our adjudicators conclusion that is shouldnt have offered this 
loan to Mr M. So, I dont intend to examine that aspect of the complaint in any great detail. 
But, for completeness I will record that I agree with what our investigator said. I agree that 
logbook loans didnt make a fair lending decision based on what it had in front of it. I think wit 
the information it gathered, Logbook Loans ought to have seen that Mr M would have 
struggled to make the repayments in a sustainable way. So I uphold Mr Ms complaint also. 
So, what is now left is for me to decide what is fair and reasonable for Logbook Money to do 
in order to put things right. That matter is complicated given that Logbook Money 
repossessed and sold Mr Ms car on which the loan was secured. I dont, in this decision, 
make any criticism of that repossession. 
I havent seen anything to make me think Logbook Money acted unreasonably in 
repossessing the car when Mr M failed to make the payments he had agreed. But since I 
have now concluded that the loan shouldnt have been agreed, it follows that I dont think it 
was fair for Mr M to be deprived of his vehicle. So, Logbook Money needs to ensure that Mr 
M is provided with a fair and reasonable valuation of it. Not what Logbook Money realised at 
an auction. 
Logbook Money has provided us with evidence of the selling price of Mr Ms vehicle at 
auction, and the proceeds it ultimately received from the sale, this being £3355.20. And it 
has also, most recently and after our investigators view, provided us with a copy of an 
independent third-party report on Mr Ms vehicle. This report gives a valuation of £3750. The 
report states that the vehicle had no keys, extensive MOT advisories and was sold as a non-
runner.  
Our investigator suggested that Logbook Money should have used some industry standard 
data to determine what value might reasonably be placed on Mr Ms vehicle, given its age 
and mileage, at that time. But at this point, he hadnt seen the independent report provided. I 
think a third-party independent report produced gives a more accurate valuation in relation to 
the vehicle in question. 
The valuation provided in the independent report is more than the auction proceeds that 
Logbook Money realised. I think that the higher value is what Logbook Money should use 
when assessing the fair compensation that is due to Mr M. I say this because of the findings 
that I have already made. 
In conclusion, I currently uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Mr M responded and said he is happy to accept the decision 
made. Logbook Money did not respond.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr M has not made any further points and Logbook Money has not responded. So, as 
neither party has anything further to add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Logbook Money now needs to put things right as I described within my provisional 
decision, which is repeated below. 
 
Putting things right
 Mr M has had use of the capital so he should repay this back. But for the reasons I have 
given Logbook Money should remove all interest and charges. It should also use a valuation 
figure for the vehicle as given in an independent report. Logbook Money should: 
Use the valuation of the vehicle provided in the independent report provided (£3750);Add this value and all the payments Mr M made together, and then deduct the
total sum from the amount he received from Logbook Money when the loan was 
approved;
If the above results in an overpayment, 8% simple interest should be added from the
date the overpayment was made; 
   
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Logbook Money Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman