DRN-1422925
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS).  
What happened
Mr and Mrs D jointly took out a mortgage with BOS in 1995. At the same time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy in Mr Ds sole name. The policy wouldve covered repayments 
on their mortgage if Mr D couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if the lost his job for up 
to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork BOS used at the time that they had a choice in taking the policy 
and thought it wouldve provided a suitable benefit.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
BOS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs D that they had a choice in taking out the policy. Mr 
and Mrs D say this wasnt done but havent provided much detail about what was said to 
make them think this. Given the length of time since the sale I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs D 
to have a detailed recollection of what was discussed. So Ive relied more on what the 
documents from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Separate application forms were completed for Mr and Mrs Ds MPPI and mortgage and 
BOS have given us a copy of both. 
I can see on the mortgage application form that under the section that deals with MPPI that 
BOS recommends that you consider our Mortgage Payments Insurance Scheme. And 
then gives the option to join or decline the scheme by placing a Y or N in a box with a 
note advising that an application for MPPI will need to be completed if joining the scheme. I 
think from the way MPPI was presented here it makes it clear it was optional.  If they didnt 
want MPPI they couldve left this section blank. 
Following the completion of the mortgage application form Mr D then went on to complete an 
entirely separate application form for MPPI. I accept there is a lot of information on the 
application form but all the information contained in it related solely to MPPI. So I think its 
likely they wouldve understood this wasnt part of or a condition of their mortgage  especially because only Mr D signed it. I wouldve expected to see Mrs Ds signature on the 
application form if it was part of their joint mortgage. 
So I think BOS did make it clear that Mr and Mrs D had a choice in taking out the policy 
because they were given a choice on the mortgage application form and I think Mr D signed 
the completed MPPI application form because they wanted the cover for his income. 
This was an advised sale. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs D could make an 
informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend 
MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for them for the following reasons:
Mr D was eligible for cover and it doesnt look like he would have been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs D say Mr D was entitled to some sick pay but they 
had no other means of making their repayments if Mr D couldnt work. A successful 
claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and for potentially longer 
covering Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage payments for up to 12 months if Mr D was unable 
to work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs D in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments, I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them at the time. 
And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs D information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if BOS gave all the information as it shouldve but for the same reasons that the 
policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs D have told us about their circumstances 
at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if theyd been given all the 
proper information at the time of sale.
Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs D.
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman