DRN-2275984
The complaint
Mr K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) incorrectly charged him for work 
completed, followed by payment demands.
What happened
Mr K had HomeCare Two home emergency cover with BG, including boiler and central 
heating cover. BG replaced Mr Ks boiler and carried out a power flush. He says he didnt 
ask for the power flush, but the engineer said it was part of the boiler replacement process.
BG sent an invoice to Mr K for the policy excess for the power flush. He didnt pay because 
he hadnt been told about the charge and he wouldnt have had the power flush if hed 
known. BG twice chased payment, each request being two weeks apart. The second 
payment demand indicated that the next step would be debt collection. 
Mr K complained to BG but, while waiting for its response, he received a further payment 
demand from a solicitor, which he paid. 
After investigating his complaint, BG refunded the money to Mr K and paid him £50 by way 
of apology. It had incorrectly charged him the £60 excess on his policy. Mr K didnt think the 
payment was enough.
Then, I issued a provisional decision in October 2020 explaining that I was intending to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute about the work carried out and, now, theres no dispute that BG 
incorrectly charged the £60 excess fee. BG refunded the excess and sent Mr K £50 by way 
of apology. What remains for me to decide is whether the compensation of £50 is enough in 
the circumstances. I dont think it is.
Mr K wasnt expecting to receive the invoice for £60, so I think that mustve been a shock in 
the first place. Two weeks later he received a payment demand, and two weeks after that he 
received a red, second payment demand. It was at this point he contacted BG.
BG says that if he had contacted it when he received the first payment request it couldve 
resolved the matter then, meaning he wouldnt have received further demands. I agree to 
some extent, but it doesnt change the fact that BG made the mistake in billing him. So I 
think BGs initial mistake would, inevitably, have caused Mr K some inconvenience because 
he wouldve had to contact BG to tell it about the mistake.
I understand why BG thinks the matter couldve been resolved much sooner if Mr K had 
contacted it after he received the invoice. Ordinarily, I mightve considered that a reasonable 
assumption. But the evidence doesnt support BGs position. While it wasnt as soon as he 
couldve done, Mr K did contact BG when he received the second payment demand, which 
was just four weeks after the original invoice. Despite bringing the matter to BGs attention, 
he still received another payment demand, this time from a solicitor acting on BGs behalf. 
Mr K received the letter more than six weeks after he told BG about its mistake.
Mr K says he felt the letters were threatening. Given that he didnt think he owed anything, I 
can see why he would think that. Ive looked at the payment demands, and I dont think they 
look out of the ordinary. But I appreciate hed asked BG to look into it so I can understand 
why receiving a further demand from a solicitor wouldve been quite upsetting, especially as 
the letter states, There is no reasonable reason for your failure to pay the sum owed. And I 
think the fact that Mr K paid the bill at this point, even knowing the money wasnt owed, is 
evidence that he was unsettled by this matter.
Overall, I think this was a simple mistake which couldve been resolved much sooner. I 
agree Mr K couldve contacted BG when he first received the invoice, but the sequence and 
timing of events suggests that the payment demands wouldve been sent anyway. As it was, 
BG didnt look into the matter until five weeks after Mr K received the solicitors letter and 
after he had already paid the bill.
BG refunded Mr K his excess fee and paid him £50 by way of apology. But I think a total of 
£100 is a fairer amount in recognition of the upset and prolonged inconvenience this simple 
matter caused. As BG has already paid £50, I think it should make a further payment of the 
same amount.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and I am minded to require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr K a further £50 by way of apology for the unwarranted payment demands and 
in recognition of the upset caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr K responded to say he reluctantly accepted the decision. 
BG disagreed with the additional £50 suggested because Mr K didnt take any action when 
he received the payment request letters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Mr K didnt act on the first two letters and Ive discussed that in my provisional 
decision. But it doesnt change the fact that once he did complain to BG, it still progressed 
debt collection to the solicitor stage. It wasnt a valid debt, yet Mr K paid it when he received 
the solicitors letter. Im satisfied that his actions indicate the degree of trouble and upset this 
matter caused him. For that reason, and those discussed in my provisional decision, I think a 
further £50 compensation by way of apology is warranted.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ks 
complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr K a further £50 by way of apology for the 
unwarranted payment demands and in recognition of the upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman