DRN-3212709
The complaint
Mr B complains about what happened when he asked Lloyds Bank PLC to cash a cheque 
for him, which was in euros. He said Lloyds caused considerable delay in cashing his 
cheque, and this cost him money when a predictable exchange rate change happened.
What happened
Mr B complained that Lloyds caused considerable avoidable delays in processing for him a 
very large cheque, written in euros. Mr B said that he paid this cheque in on 19 December 
2020, and he didnt get the money paid to him until 29 January 2021. Mr B said he had 
anticipated that exchange rates would worsen in the new year, and they indeed did, so this 
delay cost him lots of money. He also wanted to complain about all the stress this had 
caused, and about having to go to a branch during lockdown.
Lloyds said that it thought that it should have explained all the timescales involved in clearing
a foreign cheque clearly to Mr B, and it paid him £100 to say sorry. But Mr B didnt think this
came close to what hed lost.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had got some things wrong, but he thought it had done
enough to make up for that. He didnt think that Lloyds had to pay Mr B the difference
between the two exchange rates that hed mentioned. He set out a short timeline of what
had happened
- Saturday, 19 December 2020, Mr B first paid in the cheque
- Thursday 31 December, Mr B followed up with Lloyds to see what had happened,
and was told he would need to attend a branch.
- Monday 4 January 2021, Mr B went into branch and supplied further information
about himself and the source of the funds.
- Wednesday 13 January 2021, Mr B received the cheque back with a request to
complete a form, agreeing to have the cheque processed by collection instead of
negotiation. Mr B returned this promptly.
- Friday, 29 January 2021, the money was paid into Mr Bs account.
Our investigator explained the different ways an overseas cheque is cleared, negotiation and
collection. I wont repeat this for Mr B here, as hes told us hes familiar with this.
Our investigator said that Mr B had accepted Lloyds had told him the process of clearing the
cheque could take up to six weeks. So our investigator didnt think Lloyds had promised to
act faster than this. And Mr Bs cheque was cleared within six weeks.
Our investigator said Lloyds had accepted that it provided some poor service. Our
investigator thought Lloyds had asked Mr B later in the process, for the same information
hed provided when he deposited the cheque. And he thought the branch couldve explained
the process better. But he didnt think that Mr Bs cheque shouldve been cleared in 16 days.
So he thought Lloydss offer of £100 was fair.
Mr B said the essence of his complaint was about the delay Lloyds caused before sending
the cheque overseas. Mr B said Lloyds told him the process only takes so long because of
delays with the foreign banks, but the delays here werent caused by the overseas bank.
Once the cheque was actually sent overseas, Mr B had the money only sixteen days later.
So Mr B said that the rest of the time taken to get the money to him was made up of delays
by Lloyds. Mr B didnt think £100 made up for his exchange rate loss over that time.
Mr B also said that we needed to consider the stress of having to attend the branch two
extra times during the pandemic.
Our investigator reconsidered, and asked Lloyds for some extra information. He offered a
further timeline, of what happened in Lloyds central processing team. And he said Mr B had
signed a form which said that if the cheque could not be negotiated, then it should be
returned to him. So our investigator didnt think the time spent in doing that was a delay
caused by Lloyds. He said that overall, he didnt think Lloyds had caused delays. He said
that especially as the cheque was being actioned over Christmas, and during a pandemic
when lots of businesses were experiencing disruptions in their operations.
Our investigator said that Mr B had also complained about having to go into a branch, but he
had chosen to do so in mid-December to deposit the cheque, and then again at the end of
December to check on progress. So it didnt look like he had told Lloyds that he couldnt
travel to the branch. He didnt think Lloyds was made aware that Mr B wasnt comfortable
travelling to the branch.
Our investigator didnt change his mind.
Mr B still didnt agree. He said wed missed the point. Lloyds always knew he wanted this
cheque cleared quickly, and it had been hopeful of achieving this. So Mr B didnt expect it
would take from 19 December to 14 January just to send off the cheque.
Mr B asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, and he then sent me a
helpful prcis of his complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr B has told us he had other options for clearing this cheque, but he chose to take it 
to Lloyds, partly because that was a more convenient way to share out the money 
between the people it needed to go to, but also partly because he knew that an 
overseas bank would charge considerable fees for clearing it. Mr B accepts that 
Lloyds did say the process of clearing the cheque could take up to six weeks, but he 
said Lloyds was hopeful that it could be done faster than this, and had indicated it 
was usually faster.
I think that a key issue here is whether Lloyds did what it promised. Mr B says that he 
impressed on Lloyds at the outset that this cheque needed to clear quickly, and he 
said that Lloyds had said it would try this, but it also looks as if Lloyds was clear that 
this could take some time. So it doesnt look as if Lloyds ever promised Mr B that 
hed get his money in less than six weeks.
The core of Mr Bs complaint is that, at a number of points, Lloyds could have acted 
more expeditiously. I have to balance out here that Lloyds has never promised this 
would be a quick service for Mr B. It always said this could take several weeks. But Ill still look to see if there have been unexplained or unreasonable delays in what 
Lloyds has done.
When a cheque like this is being cleared, the actual piece of paper needs to be sent 
on at every stage. Mr B said that the time taken for this was unreasonable.
Mr B deposited this cheque in a branch on 19 December. That was a Saturday. As 
Mr B himself noted on the phone, it seems unlikely that his cheque was forwarded to 
the central team that day. It was probably sent on the next working day, Monday 21 
December.
The cheque arrived with the central team on 29 December. I know that sounds like a 
long time after Mr B paid the cheque in, but both Friday 25 December and Monday 
28 December were bank holidays. So, once we allow for weekends and the bank 
holidays over Christmas, its only four working days after the cheque was sent.
I can see the next time Mr B paid in this cheque, it also arrived with the central team 
four working days later. I dont think I can say its unreasonable for Lloyds transfer 
arrangements to take this long to get a cheque to the central processing team, 
especially during a newly imposed central London lockdown, and over the Christmas 
and new year period.
When the cheque got to the central team, it does seem to have been processed quite 
quickly. It was 30 December when that team asked for some more information from 
Mr B. Our investigator thought this was just information that Mr B had given before, 
but from what Mr B said on calls to Lloyds at the time, I dont think it was only 
information Lloyds already had.
I know that some of what Lloyds wanted was information Mr B had already given  
the source of the funds  but it also seems as if Lloyds asked further questions, 
around his occupation and any future large payments he might receive. I note that Mr 
B has said he didnt use his Lloyds account much at all, and thats consistent with the 
statements I can see. So Lloyds didnt know much about him and his finances. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to ask further questions, and I would usually 
expect that to be done by the branch, who might well want to see documentary 
evidence of what Mr B was saying.
We know, of course, that this transaction was entirely above board, and Mr B was 
easily able to satisfy Lloyds of that. But I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to ask.
Mr B responded promptly, and his cheque was sent again to the central team, 
arriving there after four working days, on 8 January. On the next working day, the 
team decided it would need to be collected, and unfortunately Mr B had signed a 
form saying that if the cheque couldnt be negotiated, he wanted it sent back to him.
I know Mr B says he didnt fill in this part of the form, but hes told us hes familiar 
with the different ways of clearing overseas cheques, and he did sign the form. So I 
think Lloyds did have to send the cheque back.
Mr B got the cheque back on 13 January. He then agreed to have it paid by 
collection. Mr B says again this is something that should have been done over the 
phone. But paying a cheque by collection carries different risks to paying by 
negotiation, and Lloyds has explained it would always want an actual signature to 
record that a customer had agreed to that. This was an extremely large cheque, I 
think this is a reasonable approach for Lloyds to have taken.Lloyds then requested the payment from overseas, and that overseas bank actually 
transferred the funds on 20 January 2021. So its the exchange rate from this date 
thats likely to have decided the amount that Mr B received.
Unfortunately, when that overseas bank sent payment, it didnt also send a 
confirmation note, to say the payment had been made. Lloyds needs this, so it can 
be sure that any money transferred to it is for Mr Bs cheque. It chased the overseas 
bank for this on 21 January and then again 28 January. Once Lloyds received this 
confirmation (so, in essence, it knew that this overseas bank wouldnt ask for the 
money back) it paid the funds to Mr B on 29 January.
I know that some parts of this process have seemed slow and cumbersome to Mr B. 
And I understand his concerns about the time it was taking, when he was quite 
reasonably expecting unfavourable changes to the exchange rate. But I dont think 
that Lloyds has been unfair or unreasonable here.
Mr B has also complained that each time Lloyds asked for more information, he had 
to go into a branch. He thought that was an unnecessary risk, and both times this 
could have been done over the phone. Our investigator said he didnt think Lloyds 
was aware of Mr Bs concerns about going into a branch. I think it was, Mr B 
expressed concerns about this on the phone calls Ive listened to. But I do think its 
reasonable for Lloyds to want to see documentation to evidence what Mr B said 
when he answered its money laundering questions, and for it to want an actual 
signature from him to say that he would accept the risk of a cheque going for 
collection. So I dont think these branch visits could have been replaced by phone 
calls.
Lloyds has paid Mr B £100 for this complaint. I know that Mr B will be disappointed, 
but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think that Lloyds has to do more than 
this. And that means I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides have replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds wrote to say that it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr B thanked me for my very detailed response. But he said that two issues still remained.
The first was why, when Lloyds said that it had everything it needed on 19 December, did 
the branch not ask the money laundering questions, which as a financial institution it must 
have known were needed. And why did the branch not ask about whether the cheque was to 
be paid by collection or negotiation, because then the box could have been ticked right 
away. 
Mr B said he wasnt familiar with the ways of clearing overseas cheques, this is the first he 
had ever had.Mr B also said the second issue was why, on 4 January, Mr B was again told that Lloyds had 
everything it needed, he said again why was he not asked about how he wanted the cheque 
paid, so that the box could have been ticked.
Mr B felt that these were blatant errors, which cost him a great deal of money.
Id like to start by apologising if Ive misunderstood what Mr B said to us about understanding 
the clearance process for foreign cheques. Our investigator did set this out in detail in his 
view, so Ill only refer to this briefly here. 
Essentially, the options are either negotiation or collection. A cheque which is negotiated 
means Lloyds would exchange and potentially advance money before it gets any payment 
from the foreign bank. But if a cheque is collected, then it is sent to the paying bank first, 
asking for payment. That takes longer. 
Mr B thought he should have been asked to just tick the box to agree to having his cheque 
collected, when he first took the cheque in. But when Mr B signed the form to ask Lloyds to 
process his cheque, he didnt miss out the bit on the form about collection. It had been 
completed. The form includes a customer checklist which ends with the following question 
 In some cases we are unable to process cheques via the negotiation facility, in this case, 
how do you wish us to continue? The options were Collect the cheque instead (see page 4 
negotiation and collection) or Return the cheque to me. 
Ive seen the form Mr B signed, and its marked next to Return the cheque to me. So I dont 
think that the branch staff had failed to ask Mr B to check a box. I think the problem was that 
the form he signed, asked for the cheque to be returned to him if it couldnt be negotiated.
Mr B also thought the branch ought to have been aware that further questions needed to be 
asked, in order to satisfy money laundering rules. But Mr B had provided some information 
about the cheque when he first deposited it. And banks dont always need to ask additional 
questions. They have to assess the risks themselves, for each case, and decide what they 
need. 
Unfortunately, Mr Bs cheque wasnt processed in the branch. Foreign cheques dont go 
through the ordinary UK clearing system. And Lloyds, like most high street banks, has 
centralised expertise on foreign cheques. So those decisions about extra questions werent 
taken in the branch. They were taken when Mr Bs paper cheque reached that central team. 
I do appreciate that this added extra time to the processing of Mr Bs cheque. But this 
centralising of expertise is a common approach. Although Lloyds may not have explained 
this to Mr B, it is one of the many reasons that clearing foreign cheques through a UK bank 
generally takes a lot longer. I think this is why Lloyds said that it thought it should have 
explained the timescales more clearly to Mr B, and it paid compensation for that. 
I do think that Lloyds could have done a better job of managing Mr Bs expectations in this 
case, and explaining that delays in cashing a foreign cheque are also to do with how that 
cheque is processed, not just to do with sending the cheque overseas. But Lloyds has paid 
£100 for that. I think that does make up for this point. And, although I know Mr B wont agree 
with me, I still dont think I can say that the overall delays experienced in this case were 
unfair or unreasonable, or that Lloyds should pay Mr B more money to cover changes in the 
exchange rate during this time. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed, but I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman