DRN-1387966
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt give him the correct information 
about his compulsory excess and hire car provision under his motor insurance policy. He 
wants a refund of the £350 voluntary excess he paid after a claim. 
What happened
Mr H has had a policy with UKI for three years. He made a claim and paid his £850 policy 
excess but he later found that this included a £350 voluntary excess. He said hed not been 
told this before. Mr H was provided with a small hire car whilst his was being repaired. This 
was unsuitable for him and he said hed not been told about the option for cover that 
included a larger hire car. UKI said it hadnt done anything wrong, but it added the upgraded 
hire car provision to Mr Hs renewed policy as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. UKI said it had 
explained the hire car options to Mr H at point of sale and hed opted for the standard free 
provision. Mr H had been given like for like cars for two previous claims. But the investigator 
explained that these were for non-fault claims and this was UKIs standard practice. He 
thought Mr H could have changed this level of cover if hed so wished. He thought Mr H 
hadnt suffered any loss due to not being aware of the £350 voluntary excess. This was 
because hed had lower premiums for three years as a result and this outweighed the £350 
voluntary excess Mr H had paid for his claim.
Mr H replied that hed been lied to by UKI. He wanted a refund of his £350 voluntary excess. 
He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint hinges on what UKI told him about his hire car provision and voluntary 
excess when he first took out his policy. Unfortunately, its UKIs policy to delete call 
recordings after three years. I cant say that this is unreasonable as this is its commercial 
decision. So copies of the recording of the sales call arent available for us to listen to. 
UKI said it had listened to the calls before they were deleted. But its account of them is 
different to Mr Hs recollections. So Ive also looked at Mr Hs policy documents to see if he 
was given sufficient information about his policy provision. 
I think its clear from Mr Hs policy documents that hed opted for guaranteed hire car 
provision, but not the upgraded version. These documents were provided to Mr H after he 
took out his policy and for each renewal. And I think he could have used the 14-day cooling 
off period to review and change his cover if it didnt suit his needs. 
So I dont think UKI was obliged by the policy to provide Mr H with a like for like hire car after 
he made his claim. I can see that UKI did do this on two other occasions. But, as the 
investigator has already explained, these were for non-fault claims. And this is UKIs 
practice. So I cant say UKIs done anything wrong on this point.
Like the investigator, Ive looked at Mr Hs policy documents to see where the breakdown of 
his policy excess into voluntary and compulsory components is explained. But, unlike other 
policy documents Ive seen, this isnt set out. UKI said it had deleted the initial call where it 
said Mr H had opted for the £350 voluntary excess. It said the policy excess wasnt 
discussed in the renewal calls. So Ive no evidence to say that Mr H was made reasonably 
aware that he had chosen to have a £350 voluntary excess on top of his £500 compulsory 
excess. 
But I cant see that this has caused Mr H any financial loss. UKI calculated the additional 
premium that Mr H would have had to pay if hed had no voluntary excess for three years. 
This totalled more than £350, the amount of voluntary excess Mr H had to pay after his 
recent claim. 
So if UKI has made an error, I cant say that this caused Mr H any loss. And so I dont 
require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman