DRN-2818182
The complaint
Mr A complains he was charged high fees by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) for overseas 
payments.
 
What happened
Mr A made three online payments, each of £5,000 to an overseas account - two on 12 
December 2019, one on 2 January 2020. He paid HSBC UK a fee of £4 each time. He was 
then debited with three further fees of £16.20.
Mr A complained that the fees were too high. HSBC didnt tell him about the fees, and he 
wasnt aware they would be applied.
HSBC said the fees were made by the intermediary bank and were outside the control of 
HSBC. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Mr A agreed to pay all the fees - 
including intermediary bank fees - in connection with the payments in the drop-down screen 
when he set up the payments. And, intermediary bank fees were contained in HSBCs terms 
and conditions. So  HSBC had acted fairly.
Mr A asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr A is coming from  he thought the fees amounted to £4 per payment and 
was surprised when he was later debited with another £16.20 for each one. 
When international payments are made, all banks need to use an intermediary bank in the 
destination country to process them. And so, those fees also need to be paid. We asked 
HSBC more questions about the payments. They confirmed that in fact, the intermediary 
bank here was HSBC India  and so Mr A was even more interested as to why intermediary 
bank fees were applied by the same bank - HSBC. We also asked HSBC the same question. 
And  HSBC told us that the fees still must be paid, and cant be predicted, even though 
HSBC India is part of HSBC. 
This service cant interfere with the actual level of the prices and fees in question  these are 
commercial decisions made by HSBC, but we looked at how clearly they were advised to Mr 
A.
HSBCs terms and conditions do state that fees will be applied by an intermediary bank  
and this could be another bank in HSBC group. I think most customers might find it strange 
that banks within HSBC group would make charges to their customers in this way  but they 
do, and their terms and conditions say they can. They say If we send money outside the 
EEA, we may use an intermediary bank. The intermediary and the bank receiving the money 
may apply their own charges. This could include payments sent through, or to another HSBC 
bank. Youll only have to pay these charges if you tell us you want to pay all the charges 
when you ask us to make the payment. 
We looked at what Mr A was presented with and agreed to when making the online 
payments.  He agreed to pay all the fees connected with the payments (including 
intermediary bank fees). He was shown three options on a drop-down screen  and chose 
option 1:
1. I want to pay all the fees
2. I want the payee to pay all the fees
3. I want HSBC to pay the HSBC UK fees.
So  while I can appreciate this was frustrating for Mr A, I cant say that HSBC have done 
anything wrong, and have acted in line with their terms and conditions and Mr As 
instructions. And so, while I can see this will be disappointing for Mr A, I wont be asking 
HSBC to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman