DRN-2748417
The complaint
Mr K complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat) was 
irresponsible to lend him money he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr K took out a loan with MoneyBoat - heres a table showing details: 
Loan Date 
takenLoan 
AmountNumber of 
monthly 
instalmentsApproximate 
instalment 
amountDate 
repaid
1 07/09/20 £500 6 £148 Not paid
Mr K said that he applied for this loan so that he could clear other loans and this got him into 
more debt  which he said MoneyBoat wouldve known if it had done proper checks.
Our adjudicator felt that MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided the loan to Mr K given that its 
checks showed that Mr K had at least 2 other outstanding short-term loans plus other 
instalment loans and a hire purchase agreement. Our adjudicator said this didnt match the 
information Mr K had provided and given the amount he had to pay towards outstanding 
credit there was a risk that he would need to borrow again to meet his existing commitments. 
So our adjudicator said MoneyBoat ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr K would be able 
to sustainably repay this loan.
Our adjudicator set out the steps she said MoneyBoat should take to put things right for 
Mr K. Mr K appears happy with the outcome suggested by our adjudicator and he is anxious 
for an early resolution to his complaint.
MoneyBoat mainly said it did proportionate checks and that whilst we might say it should've 
looked at all the information it had, it was impractical for it to review every line of a credit file. 
MoneyBoat told us that the early stages of lending were automated.
MoneyBoat has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
MoneyBoat asked Mr K to provide details of his income and to tell MoneyBoat what he 
normally spent each month. It carried out credit checks and boosted his expenses figure to 
allow an extra safety margin when assessing what Mr K could afford to repay. After doing 
this, looking at what MoneyBoat knew about Mr Ks income and expenditure, Mr K appeared 
to still have around £1300 disposable income  after allowing for him spending around £400 
on other credit. 
But I think MoneyBoat could see that information looked to be at odds with the information 
shown on its credit checks that MoneyBoat sent to us. 
MoneyBoat could see that Mr K had been relying significantly on credit for some time. And, 
like our adjudicator, I think MoneyBoat could see from its credit checks that Mr K had 
multiple other short-term high cost and unsecured loans outstanding when he asked to 
borrow this loan from MoneyBoat. In addition, Mr K was already paying £320 each month on 
a hire purchase agreement for his car and it looked like hed be paying this for some years. He also had a number of credit cards, some close to their limit, towards which it looked like 
he was just making minimum repayments. 
Overall, it was evident from MoneyBoats credit checks that Mr Ks monthly spending on 
credit was significantly more than MoneyBoat had allowed for when assessing affordability  
and in reality, he was already spending a very significant amount of his take home pay on 
credit and this accounted for the bulk (if not all) of his disposable income. I think there were 
clear warning signs that this loan would likely be used to pay other existing credit 
commitments  which is what Mr K told us he intended the loan for. 
The type of loan MoneyBoat provided to Mr K is intended for short term financial help in the 
event of temporary money problems. So I think the information MoneyBoat had gathered 
about Mr Ks credit history shouldve made MoneyBoat realise that it looked like Mr K was 
having problems managing his money. 
Ive carefully considered what MoneyBoat has said about this. But I think that the information 
it had gathered showing the extent of Mr Ks credit history and the extent of his existing debt 
should reasonably have led MoneyBoat to the conclusion that what Mr K said about his 
financial situation was highly inaccurate and that it was likely that Mr K was facing serious 
problems managing his money.
I dont think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to conclude that it was likely that Mr K would 
be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way. So, for the reasons I've explained, I dont 
think MoneyBoat shouldve provided this loan to Mr K.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest (and possibly 
charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr K, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr K in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following: 
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan and treat any 
repayments made by Mr K as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B. If this results in Mr K having made overpayments then these should be refunded with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. If there is still an outstanding balance owed in respect of the loan then the amounts 
calculated in "A" should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Mr K. 
And if there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr K - bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions if he still needs further time to 
pay. 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ks credit file for this loan once it is repaid - and 
ask the debt purchaser to do the same if MoneyBoat sold this loan. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
MoneyBoat) to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman