DRN-3870517
The complaint
Miss K complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) have 
handled a claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 and set out the background to the complaint 
as:
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Miss K made a claim to repair damage to her property following a gas explosion in 
May 2021 which destroyed a nearby property.
Miss K is unhappy that Lloyds wont repair some of the damage to her property that 
she tells us was caused by the explosion.
She is also unhappy with time taken and poor service.
Lloyds accept there were some delays and has made awards of £150 on two 
occasions, so a total of £300, and offered a further £300 which Miss K hasnt yet 
accepted.
Lloyds say it has carried out, or agreed to carry out, repairs to the property but in its 
final response dated 13 May 2022 it reiterates its view some of the damage wasnt 
caused by the explosion and wont carry out repairs to these areas.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Lloyds should deal with the damage 
to the main roof, the extension roof, kitchen units and re-render the property. And 
increase its offer of compensation to £750.
Lloyds disagreed and asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
And I set out my reasoning as:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator and Ill explain 
why.
There is no dispute an explosion caused damage to the property. Lloyds have accepted and 
progressed the claim, carrying out repairs and reimbursing Miss K for emergency repairs she 
had arranged to mitigate the loss and prevent further damage. What is in dispute is the 
extent of the damage caused by the explosion and some aspects of the schedule of works to 
repair the damage. 
Ive carefully considered the testimony and expert reports provided by both parties and will 
summarise my findings on the areas of disagreement. If I dont refer to a particular piece of 
evidence or testimony it isnt because I havent seen it or considered it, its just that I dont 
feel it necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope neither party takes this as a 
discourtesy, its simply a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Main roof
The main roof to the house, which was retiled approximately 7 years ago, shows signs of 
sagging. 
Miss K has engaged a firm of building surveyors to conduct a Specific Defect Report in 
March 2022. And in their opinion the explosion caused movement to the roof structure which 
has caused the roof structure to be affected by the increased load. The surveyors comment 
that the original tiles were of a much lighter inferior specification to those now in use. The 
surveyors suggest the report is sufficient to have the property assessed by a suitably 
qualified structural engineer. Miss K has also provided commentary on her claims 
submission from a colleague who is a building surveyor with many years experience in the 
construction industry and insurance property claims as a technical consultant for 2 well 
known insurers. He agrees with Miss K that there was no sign of sagging when the roof was 
retiled. He also references the new tiles would be heavier than the original slate tiles but 
says the proximate cause of the sagging was the explosion and the impact of added loading 
to the structural timbers.
Lloyds has provided reports from a chartered engineer and the opinion of a professionally 
qualified experienced senior claims consultant. In its opinion the structural integrity of the 
main roof has not been compromised, and it states the visible sagging of the roof is likely to 
be historic and not attributed to the blast. It adds that there is no indication that the roof 
timbers have moved recently, or signs of tearing of the roof felt and conclude the roof does 
not appear to have suffered recent trauma. 
Both parties refer to historical google images. I give less weight to these images than the 
reports provided by both parties. I can see evidence of sagging in the older images but find 
the pictures Ive seen after the retiling are inconclusive. However, there is no evidence of 
any remedial work to the beams and rafters when the retiling took place 7 years ago and 
there could have been further movement since the new tiles were installed. 
On balance, in the circumstances of this case Im more persuaded by the evidence Lloyds 
has provided and am satisfied the sagging is not a result of the explosion. 
Extension Roof
The rear extension roof shows signs of undulating where it leans to the main house wall.  
The chartered engineer engaged by Lloyds initially attributed this undulation, along with 
other damage to the extension as being caused by the explosion. In a later report it 
concluded the undulating appearance to the roof line externally, and the ceiling line 
internally, is due to the existing line of the lean-to rafters from the original build, which have 
not been affected by the blast. It highlighted there was no movement in the rafters or 
cracking to the wall finishes near to the strapping locations which might have indicated 
upward movement caused by the blast from the explosion. And it said the slight rotation to 
some rafters was due to the tolerances of the original build and not structurally significant.
The report from Miss Ks building surveyors and the building surveyor colleague both 
support her view that the undulation in the extension roof was caused by the explosion However, they make less detailed comments than they do to the main roof. Although I note 
one report predates the latest visit by Lloyds engineer in which the engineer drew a different 
conclusion, so the surveyor didnt think this point was in dispute.  I can understand Miss Ks 
frustration that Lloyds has changed its mind. However, on balance Im more persuaded by 
the evidence Lloyds has provided and am satisfied in the circumstances of this case that 
Lloyds has acted reasonably.
Rendering
Rendering dislodged in a number of places to the rear of the property and fell to the ground. 
The rear of the house is closest to the house that suffered the catastrophic explosion and 
there is no dispute the damage was caused by the explosion. I refer to render in this 
decision for simplicity, for the avoidance of doubt this includes the pebble dash element also.
Lloyds have said that whilst the policy allows a patch repair it has agreed this wouldnt be 
appropriate in this case. And said it would render the entire rear elevation of the property to 
avoid patches. 
Miss K has obtained a report from a property damage restoration specialist operating in the 
insurance sector. The report indicates the staining which is visible to the rendering on the 
side elevation of the house appears to be coming from beneath the end caps of the main 
roof, and has happened during repairs that have been undertaken on the roof. And this 
wouldnt respond to cleaning. It suggests a specialist treatment may be possible but that it 
may be more cost effective to replace the render.
Lloyds has since agreed to re-render the side elevation in addition to the rear elevation. I find 
this reasonable.
Miss K has raised concerns that by only re-rendering the rear and side elevation there may 
be visible differences between the side and front elevations as the render runs all the way 
around her house with no breaks. I can understand her concerns but cannot make a finding 
on something that hasnt happened, and it isnt fair or reasonable for Lloyds to pay for 
repairs to an elevation that hasnt been damaged. It should ensure a competent contractor is 
engaged to make an effective repair.
Kitchen worktop
Miss K has shown evidence that a kitchen worktop has dropped. I note this worktop was 
fitted approximately 7 years ago as part of a refurbishment and renovation of the property.
The report from Miss Ks building surveyor states movement occurred to the worktop and 
was caused by the explosion. Commentary from the building surveyor colleague says it is 
clear there has been some movement in the property which may again have highlighted a 
poor fixing or similar. And adds that but for the explosion the worktop would not have moved.  
A report from the engineer appointed by Lloyds states the fine gap between the kitchen 
countertop and the tiled wall is due to the countertop sagging due to a lack of support, and it 
wasnt damaged by the explosion.
On balance Im more persuaded by the evidence Lloyds has provided. Ive not seen any 
evidence to dispute Lloyds view that the worktop lacked adequate support and Im satisfied 
the movement is solely as result of poor fixing or a lack of support.
DelaysThere is no doubt dealing with the aftermath of the explosion, which destroyed nearby 
properties, will have been stressful. But I cannot hold Lloyds responsible for that. However, I 
can consider the additional distress, inconvenience, and effort by Miss K in sorting out the 
delays caused by Lloyds and its contractors. Having done so I find £600 to be reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case and is in line with awards this service makes. I note Lloyds 
has apologised to Miss K so I wont be asking it to do any more. 
In summary Im satisfied Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this 
case. It has acknowledged and apologised for delays it caused and offered appropriate 
compensation.
Replies to the provisional findings
Miss K has provided a detailed response outlining where she agrees and disagrees with the 
provisional findings and further opinion from her building surveyors. 
Lloyds advised it had no further points or information to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ks strength of feeling on this matter is clear and many of her observations in response 
to my provisional decision is evidence or testimony Ive already considered. Ive reviewed 
everything Miss K has submitted but it doesnt change my mind. Taking into account the 
expert testimony from both parties I remain more persauded by the evidence provided by 
Lloyds. Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities having considered the 
evidence provided by both parties.
As mentioned in my provisional decision, I dont feel it necessary to mention every point 
thats been raised or observation made in the response to the provisional decision to explain 
my final decision, this isnt intended as a discourtesy, its simply a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
Main roof
As set out in my provisional decision, both parties refer to historical google images. And 
whilst I gave less weight to these images than the reports both parties provided, I was 
satisfied there were signs of sagging. Miss K provided pictures of her property shortly after it 
was retiled a few years ago and says this illustrates there was no sagging. Lloyds refer to 
these pictures and say they do show sagging. Ive re-examined a picture provided by Miss K 
of her property after the roof was retiled and have placed a straight edge to the roofline in 
the picture and can see a slight bow. So Im more satisfied there were historical issues which 
couldve been exacerbated by the heavier roof tiles since the retiling was complete.
Miss Ks building surveyor colleague has reconfirmed the heavier tiles used during the 
retiling will have increased the load on the roof structure and in his opinion given normal 
circumstances the roof would generally have withstood this, but it places the the roof 
structure under greater strain. He states the issue with an explosion is the pressure wave 
from the blast which affects a property differently to normal winds generally. He adds that 
there is no structural failure of the roof structure and suggests that but for the blast there 
wouldnt be any movement within the roof that may have caused the damage claimed for. I dont find this particularly persasusive and have already found there to be sagging in the roof 
line before the explosion.
The building surveyors acting for Miss K have provided further comments based on the 
photographic evience prior to and following the explosion. In their opinion there was no 
sagging to the roof and this suggests the damage was caused by the explosion. As set out 
above Im satisfied there was some sagging prior to the explosion. 
Extension Roof
Miss Ks experts make limited comment on the extension. Miss K has explained the lack of 
comment from her experts is due to Lloyds initially accepting the damage was caused by the 
explosion, and only on its 3rd visit did it change its mind. Ive taken this into consideration 
but remain more persauded by the report from Lloyds structural engineers that the 
undulating appearance to the roof line externally, and the ceiling line internally, is not a result 
of the blast from the explosion. I found the comments that there was no movement in the 
rafters or cracking to the wall finishes near to the strapping locations which might have 
indicated upward movement caused by the blast from the explosion more compelling than 
other testimony and opinion. 
Kitchen worktop
Miss K maintains the movement in the worktop resulting in a gap between it and the tiles is a 
result of the blast. And she points out it is only this area impacted and this worktop is on the 
inside of the rear wall that suffered damage to the external rendering. So I can understand 
why Miss K feels the explosion has caused this movement. 
However, Lloyds say the damage isnt caused by the explosion. It points out there is no 
suggestion the tiles are loose or that there is cracking to the grout line or plaster in the 
location of the gap, and suggests the gap is explained by flexing of the worktop in normal 
use rather than a blast wave targeting this specific point. It also points out the images show 
the bottom row of tiles are not finished with a silicone sealant which wouldve provided a 
waterproof and flexible joint, and such a joint would be common in this location. And it notes 
its engineer has commented the worktop may have flexed under its own weight because of it 
not being supported sufficiently underneath. 
Miss K hasnt provided evidence there was adequate support, shes asked what evidence 
Lloyds has provided it wasnt adequately supported. On balance, I remain more persuaded 
by Lloyds testimony and the opinion of qualified engineers that the movement is due to lack 
of support and not by damage from the blast.
Rendering
Miss K tells me Lloyds has only agreed to re-render the part of the side elevation that cover 
the extension rather than the entire gable end of the property, and indeed that is what it says 
in its final response letter dated 13 May 2022. However, in its final submission to this service 
dated 17 October 2022 Lloyds sets out it has offered to render 2 elevations to negate patch 
repairs which may not be visually acceptable. So I expect Lloyds to arrange, or pay for, 
rendering to 2 elevations in full, namely the rear elevation and the gable end elevation. And 
as set out in my provisional decision I find that reasonable.  
Delays
Miss K has commented on my statement in the provisional decision that Lloydss have 
progressed the claim and has highlighted a number of failings and delays leading to her having to chase Lloyds and its contractors. To be clear, Ive not suggested the claim 
progressed as quickly as it shouldve done, simply that it has progressed. And that I find the 
offer Lloyds has made to be reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Miss K has mentioned a number of snagging issues since repairs were caried out and 
Lloyds should attend to these ensuring the repairs it carried out are effective and lasting.
This is a finely balanced case and I appreciate Miss K has strong views about the way the 
claim was handled but taking into account all the evidence Im persauded Lloyds have acted 
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman