DRN-3599220
The complaint
Ms M complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declining a claim under her home 
insurance policy, for damage from a leak at her property. 
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Ms M noticed water coming through the kitchen ceiling of her property, which 
she thought was coming from the bathroom above. She contacted Aviva to tell them of the 
leak and lodge a claim. (Aviva had previously sent engineers on two occasions to investigate 
the course of the leak, but they were unable to identify the cause of the leak). 
Aviva assigned a firm to trace the leak and they subsequently carried out a remote 
assessment of the bathroom using video to assess the bathroom and the likely cause of the 
leak. From the assessment, Aviva declined the claim because they thought the leak was due 
to damaged and broken tiles and damaged grout to tiled areas of the bath/shower area of 
the bathroom. As such, they considered this to be a wear and tear and maintenance issue, 
which wouldnt be covered under the policy.
Ms M then contacted a local handyman to investigate the problem, who first renewed the 
sealant around the bath and the grout between the bathroom tiles. But the leak continued. 
The handyman visited the property again to further investigate the problem. He diagnosed 
the issue as a hole in a pipe leading to the shower.
Ms M contacted Aviva again to tell them of the repair work. Aviva then carried out a further 
video assessment of the bathroom. From the assessment Aviva noticed discolouration and 
cracks in the sealant grout and tiles around the bath and shower. Ms M said the 
discolouration and cracks had happened in the period since the handyman repaired them. 
Based on this, Aviva again declined Ms Ms claim, on the grounds the repair work hadnt 
been carried out correctly or to a satisfactory standard.
Unhappy at her claim again being declined, Ms M complained to Aviva. They didnt uphold 
the complaint. In their final response, they confirmed the earlier decisions to decline the 
claim. They said the evidence didnt indicate a one-off insured event and the issue related to 
a wear and tear issue. This conclusion was confirmed after review of the further information 
supplied by Ms M and a digital assessment. Aviva confirmed Ms Ms policy didnt cover 
damage caused by wear and tear, faulty workmanship or maintenance.
Ms M then complained to this service. She disagreed with Avivas decision to decline her 
claim on the grounds that the damage was caused by poor maintenance. She was also 
unhappy Avivas engineers couldnt diagnose the problem, so she had to engage her own 
engineer. Shes had to pay a significant amount to fix the problem and repair the damage 
(and the work still wasnt complete). She wanted Aviva to accept her claim and pay for the 
cost of fixing the damage.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ms complaint. Based on a report from Ms Ms handyman 
and accompanying photographs, the investigator concluded the leak had been 
caused by a hole in a pipe leading to the shower valve, causing water to leak when 
the valve was set in a certain position. So, the damage from the leak wasnt due to 
issues with the sealant, tiles or grouting and so wasnt an issue of wear and tear, or 
maintenance. She thought Aviva should carry out a physical inspection of Ms Ms 
property and assess the claim against the policy terms and conditions.
Aviva disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They challenged the evidence provided by Ms Ms handyman, 
particularly the apparent dates of the photographs being much earlier than the 
subsequent report. They also referred to their second video assessment and the 
issues about discolouration and cracks in the sealant and grouting Ms M said the 
handyman had renewed and repaired. They also requested further information about 
the handymans report and why Ms M hadnt provided it (and the accompanying 
photographs) at the second time she contacted them about her claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly towards Ms M.
The key issue in Ms Ms complaint is whether Aviva have acted fairly in declining her claim 
for the damage caused to her property from the leak in the bathroom. Ms M says they 
unfairly declined her claim on the grounds of the wear and tear, maintenance and faulty 
workmanship exclusions. She says, referring to the report from the handyman she engaged, 
that the issue was a leak in a pipe leading to the shower valve. As such, she thinks Aviva 
should accept her claim and reimburse her for the cost of the repair and reinstatement work. 
For their part, Aviva say the cause of the damage (the leak) was due to issues with the 
sealant, grouting and tiles in Ms Ms bathroom. They base this on video assessments of the 
bathroom carried out on two occasions. Based on these assessments, they say the damage 
wouldnt be covered under the policy as its due to wear and tear, maintenance and poor 
workmanship.
Having considered both views carefully, including the information and evidence provided by 
both parties, on balance Ive concluded Aviva havent acted fairly in declining Ms Ms claim 
on the grounds of the exclusions theyve sought to rely on. Ill set out why Ive come to that 
conclusion, together with what I think Aviva should do to put things right.
On the issue of the likely cause of the leak and the resulting damage, Ive considered the 
report from Ms Ms handyman, together with the associated photographs of the pipe he 
diagnosed as the cause of the leak. While Aviva have raised questions about the difference 
in the date of the photographs (July 2021) as opposed to the date of the handymans report 
(October 2021) on balance, as the photographs do indicate they were taken following a 
physical inspection of the bathroom and affected areas, then Im persuaded the leak was 
more likely to have been the result of a hole in the pipe mentioned by the handyman. 
Also, that would only have been apparent after removing parts of the bathroom to access the 
pipes behind. So, it wouldnt have been clear either from the initial visits by Avivas 
engineers (who didnt seek to gain access to areas behind/under panels or walls) or by 
Avivas subsequent video assessments.
In coming to this conclusion, Ive also considered the grounds put forward by Aviva for 
declining the claim. In their final response, they refer to the policy not covering damage caused by wear and tear, faulty workmanship or maintenance. The relevant policy terms are 
included under the General exclusions section which states:
We wont pay for:
1. Gradually occurring damage
wear and tear (natural and predictable damage which happens over time or 
due to normal use or ageing) this includes, but is not limited to, gradual 
weathering, the effect of light, deterioration or depreciation
any other gradually occurring damage
4. Faulty material or workmanship
Damage caused by faulty or unsuitable materials, design or poor workmanship.
As a general principle, where a claim is made under a policy, in the first instance its for the 
policyholder to show theres been an insured event covered by the policy. In this case, its 
clear there has been damage caused by an escape of water (which would be an insured 
event under the policy). But the issue here is the cause of the damage. Where an insurer 
seeks to rely on exclusions to decline a claim (as is the case here) the onus is on them to 
show that the exclusions apply. Based on my conclusion about the most likely cause of the 
leak, then I dont think Aviva have done enough to show the exclusions apply. Particularly as 
they havent carried out a physical inspection of the property.
While coming to this conclusion, Ive also considered Avivas points about the difference 
between the date of the photographs (July 2021) and the subsequent report (October 2021). 
Ms M says she engaged the handyman when Aviva first declined the claim (June 2021). 
This would be consistent with the photographs being taken in July 2021. And that she asked 
for a report when Aviva declined the claim for a second time (October 2021). I dont think 
thats implausible. And while there are some discrepancies in the details of the report, I dont 
think they invalidate it and as a local handyman its not unreasonable that some of the 
details arent as comprehensive as they might otherwise be from a larger firm.
On the point about the discolouration and cracks in the sealant and grouting observed by 
Aviva in their second video assessment, to the extent these suggest issues with the quality 
of the work carried out, Id expect that to form part of any assessment of Ms Ms claim (but 
not as a reason to decline the claim in its entirety).  
 
Turning to what I think Aviva need to do to put things right, as Ive concluded they havent 
acted fairly in using the policy exclusions to decline Ms Ms claim, I think they should assess 
the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. This would 
include the information provided by Ms M, including that from her handyman. Id also expect 
Aviva to consider the nature, extent and quality of the work carried out to repair the damage 
(as well as the evidence that supports it) as they would for any other claim
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint in part. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
assess the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(without the exclusions for wear and tear, maintenance and poor workmanship). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman