DRN-3891760
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr D and Mrs G took out an MPPI policy in 2002, nearly a year after they took out their 
mortgage. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.
They complained to Lloyds about the policy, but Lloyds didnt uphold their complaint, so they 
brought the complaint to this service.  
Our Adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D and Mrs G disagreed with the 
Adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr D and Mrs Gs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr D and Mrs Gs complaint. I know that this will 
be disappointing for them, so Ill explain why.
Mr D and Mrs G say that they didnt know that they had MPPI, and that they did not agree to 
take it out. I understand that the MPPI policy was taken out nearly 20 years ago  so I 
wouldnt expect Mr D and Mrs G to remember everything that happened, however, Lloyds 
has provided extensive documentation that shows that Mr D and Mrs G did agree to take out 
MPPI.
Mr D and Mrs G applied for their mortgage in 2001. The MPPI was sold to them nearly a 
year after they had taken out the mortgage. Lloyds has told us that the application took place 
in a branch. At this time, no other lending was applied for  so it appears the main purpose 
of the meeting was the sale of the MPPI policy. Lloyds has provided the MPPI application 
form which shows that a choice was made to split the cover provided in a 70/30 split, with 
Mr D receiving the higher level of cover. Both Mr D and Mrs G have signed the application. 
Lloyds has also provided a handwritten letter from Mrs G, dated 25 September 2002 titled 
Accident, sickness and redundancy plan and including the policy number. This letter asks 
that the MPPI be cancelled with immediate effect, which Lloyds did.
So, taking everything into account, I think Lloyds made Mr D and Mrs G aware that they had 
a choice about buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take it. 
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mr D and Mrs G  so it needed to take steps to ensure 
that the policy was suitable for them, and it seems to have been right for them based on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I understand that Mr D and Mrs G had sick 
pay from their employer and couldve received help from family if they needed it. But the 
MPPI couldve paid out on top of any sick pay they were entitled to, and for longer. And while 
family are often keen to help, this cant always be relied upon, and ultimately the mortgage 
payment was Mr D and Mrs Gs responsibility.  
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Mr and Mrs G would still have bought it given their circumstances at the time.  
Its also possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr D and 
Mrs G dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr D and Mrs Gs comments, including what Mrs G has said in 
her response to a final decision made on another complaint they have brought to this 
Service, but these points dont change my conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses
to follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or
agreements taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the
information Ive seen, Mr D and Mrs Gs mortgage doesnt fit into these dates - and so 
Lloyds doesnt have to refund any of the commission you paid on your PPI policy
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr D and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman