DRN-2926429
The complaint
Mr S complains Metro Bank PLC has repeatedly provided him with poor service.
What happened
Mr S has an account with Metro. In January he received an automated text late at night 
which caused him concern. He was unhappy with the way the bank dealt with his concerns. 
Following this complaint Metro said it would credit his account with £50 because it felt it 
could have explained things to him in a better way. Mr S did not receive the promised £50 
and so he had to chase the bank. In June, Mr S requested the bank send him a new debit 
card because the expiry date on his card was July 2020. Metro sent a new card but the 
expiry date on the new card was also July 2020. 
Metro eventually credited Mr S with the promised £50 at the end of June and sent him a new 
card with a new expiry date.
Mr S describes himself as a senior citizen with health conditions in isolation. He has 
explained that these sorts of issues place extra strain on him which he could do without.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Metro had 
made an error by sending the text. She appreciated there were delays sending the £50 to 
Mr S but she didnt think he had suffered a financial loss. Overall, she felt Metro had handled 
the complaint fairly and noted Metros apology to Mr S.
Mr S has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He says when he first reported the issue to 
Metro, he put in a good word for one member of staff but that went unnoticed. He is 
frustrated by the banks repeated lack of due attention. He also found some members of staff 
over powering and high handed. He feels their attitude is against local banking norms. He 
feels the complaint, which has gone on for over a year, has consumed a great deal of 
energy, time and caused anxiety.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S feels very frustrated by what has happened. 
Mr Ss unhappiness with Metro started when he received a text late at night. Metro has 
explained that the text was sent much earlier. I dont think it would be reasonable to hold 
Metro responsible for the time the text arrived although I do understand the concern it 
caused him. I also think it was reasonable for the text to be sent as Mr S hadnt opted out of 
this communication at the time.
Once he received the text, Mr S telephoned Metro but was unable to pass security. I can 
understand how frustrating this would be for Mr S but banks are required to take measures 
to protect their customers security and so I dont think I can hold Metro responsible for Mr S 
being unable to pass its security.
Mr S then went into a branch and felt disrespected by how his complaint was handled. I am 
sorry he feels this way. On balance, based on what Ive seen I dont think any disrespect or 
discrimination was intended. It seems that Mr S wanted Metro staff to act more flexibly than 
the banks rules allowed. 
Metro did agree to pay Mr S £50 compensation for missing the opportunity to manage Mr Ss 
expectations more efficiently. This seems like a reasonable response to me.
It didnt, however, pay Mr S the promised £50 in a timely manner. It also sent a new card 
which was about to expire This must have caused Mr S further frustration. Metro has 
apologised for this, paid the £50 and sent a new card with a later expiry date. I think this is a 
reasonable response, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Mr S is unhappy that his positive feedback regarding a staff member appears to have gone 
unnoticed. Again, I understand his frustration, but I think it is for Metro to decide how it 
responds to positive feedback. I dont think I can say it has done anything wrong by not 
telling him how it responded.
In conclusion, I think there have been a series of incidents which have caused Mr S to feel 
let down by Metro. But I think the ways in which Metro has responded  by stopping further 
marketing texts, compensation, apologising and issuing a new card  are reasonable and so 
I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman