DRN-1937077
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection (PPI) policy. 
Mr and Mrs J have also mentioned that Lloyds sold Mrs J an income protection policy. Mr 
and Mrs J would need to make a separate complaint to Lloyds about that if they wish. To be 
clear, this decision is only looking at whether the PPI policy was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in a branch of 
Lloyds in 1995. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr J for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has any paperwork from the sale of the mortgage or PPI, which is not 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place, especially as the mortgage and PPI both 
ended in 2008. This does however make the complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching 
my decision I have considered the information that we do have, as well as what I consider is 
most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs J say they were told they had to have the PPI if they wanted the mortgage 
borrowing to be approved.
From what we know of Lloyds sales processes at the time, the PPI would normally have 
been presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. 
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs J have provided their honest recollection of events. But the 
sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded. Ive 
thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs J have said. But on balance, Im not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs J werent given a choice about taking out the policy. It seems to 
me that Mr and Mrs J probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, 
even if they no longer remember doing so.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs J to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy to them, 
it needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Js 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them. 
Mr Js employer would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if he was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than he would have received full pay for. Mr and Mrs J say they had some savings. 
But having the policy would have allowed them to retain these or use them to cover other 
outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Overall, I consider that Mr J had a need 
for the policy and could have benefitted from it. Indeed, Mr J has told us that he made a 
successful claim when he lost his job.
Lloyds also needed to provide Mr and Mrs J with sufficient information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not it was right for them.
I think that Mr and Mrs J would have known something about the policy  that it would cover 
their mortgage repayments if Mr J was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without knowing 
anything at all about it.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr J wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Mr and Mrs J had an interest in the policy and decided to buy 
it, I am not persuaded that further information would have caused them to change their 
minds.
Mr and Mrs J say the premium amount of £12.80 per month sounds quite low. Although 
Lloyds no longer has any paperwork from the sale, it does have some electronic screenshots 
that details basic information about the policy, including the cost. Having seen these, I am 
satisfied that the monthly premium was £12.80.
In its final response letter, Lloyds offered to refund £272.32 relating to commission and profit 
share that it received. Mr and Mrs J say our adjudicator has said that Lloyds has refunded 
half of the premiums but this isnt the case because Lloyds offer is nowhere near 50% of the 
total premiums they paid, However Mr and Mrs J have misunderstood what our adjudicator 
has said. Rather than Lloyds refunding half of the total premiums, Lloyds has made a refund 
for the times during the life of the policy where the commission tipped over 50% and it has 
refunded only the amount that was over and above 50%. For example, in its final response 
letter Lloyds explains that the commission for April 1995  December 2007 was 58%. So in 
this instance it has refunded the 8% of the premium cost. But where the commission was 
49% for the period January - August 2008, it hasnt refunded anything because the 
commission it received was less than 50%. The refund that Lloyds has offered is in line with 
FCA guidelines on redress.
To recap, I am not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold. This means that Lloyds doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. But Lloyds has paid back some 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman