DRN-3004692
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way Monzo Bank Ltd handled a chargeback he raised.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr P purchased some clothing online using his Monzo Bank Ltd card.
On 20 and 21 October 2020 Mr P raised a transaction dispute via Monzo  he said an item 
was missing from his order. A transaction dispute is essentially a request for Monzo to raise 
a chargeback. Chargeback is a process run under certain card schemes which aims to 
resolve disputes about purchases.
To raise the transaction dispute, Mr P submitted a form to Monzo explaining his problem and 
detailing what had happened. In the form Mr P said hed been charged the wrong amount by 
the merchant, the business who sold the clothing, who hed tried to contact via phone. 
He gave Monzo the cost of the overall order and the amount he felt he should have been 
charged. When asked why the merchant couldnt fix the problem Mr P answered 
unscrupulous, Ignorant merchant who is uncooperative.
On 21 October 2020 these requests were rejected by Monzo. It told Mr P it couldnt raise a 
dispute for him yet as it needed more evidence, in particular a screenshot/receipt that 
includes the time and date of the transaction you made, and how much it was supposed to 
cost. He was also advised to contact the merchant first and explain the situation to see if it 
could resolve things for him.
Mr P then submitted a further transaction dispute with Monzo on 23 October 2020 but 
provided no new information. So again, this was rejected. Monzo asked for screenshots 
showing what was purchased, the cost and when it was expected to be provided. It also 
asked for evidence Mr P had tried to contact the merchant to resolve things.
Mr P then sent Monzo evidence of the order and an email from the merchant. But the order 
summary wasnt itemised so Monzo requested this. Mr P then shared this evidence. 
Monzo reviewed things and told Mr P it needed to give the merchant 14 days from the date 
Mr P had emailed raising his concerns before it could get involved.
Mr P told Monzo hed got in contact with the merchant about the problem before sending the 
email. So Monzo asked for evidence of this. Unfortunately, Mr P didnt have this evidence as 
he said hed contacted the merchant by phone.
After the 14 days had elapsed, on 4 November 2020, Mr P again raised the disputed 
transaction with Monzo. He re-submitted the itemised invoice and his email to the merchant. 
This was initially rejected as Monzo said it needed to give the merchant 14 days to respond. 
It also asked Mr P for screenshots of what hed purchased. Mr P noted hed already given 
the necessary information and on 7 November Monzo agreed with him and confirmed it 
would raise a chargeback.
In late January 2021 Mr P decided to close his Monzo account. So, in February 2021 when 
Monzo needed to contact him about his chargeback request, it did so via email. But it asked 
him to complete additional security now that it was communicating outside of its secure in-
app chat. Monzo said that when it contacted Mr P it was seeking to gather further 
information in order to assess how to deal with the chargeback request which had been 
defended by the merchant in late January 2021. Monzo said it was unable to discuss things 
with Mr P because he refused to verify his identity on multiple occasions between 
February and March 2021. And so, based on the information it had available, and because it 
had been unable to get further information from Mr P, Monzo accepted the merchants 
response and declined Mr Ps chargeback request. It noted it had only 45 days to review the 
evidence from the merchant and decide how to proceed.
Mr P raised multiple complaints with Monzo about the chargeback process and the customer 
service hed received at various stages of his complaint. In particular, he was unhappy with:
The time taken to process his request, including the fact the merchant was given time 
to resolve things before Monzo would get involved.
The verification process required to discuss the chargeback after hed closed his 
account.
The failure of his chargeback request.
Monzo responded to his complaints. It noted that it typically aims to resolve chargebacks 
within three months which it breaks down as follows:
One month for it to process and submit the chargeback to the merchant.
45 days for the merchant to respond.
45 days for it to review the merchants response and finalise its decision. At this 
stage it can either accept the merchants response or, if there remains disagreement, 
it can ask the card scheme provider to make a decision.
In this case, Monzo said it took until 2 January 2021 to submit the chargeback to the 
merchant and acknowledged this was late. It apologised for this and offered £30 
compensation. However, it didnt uphold any other aspects of Mr Ps complaints  noting it 
closed the chargeback when it wasnt able to speak to Mr P within 45 days of receiving the 
merchants response.
Mr P remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service. He said hed 
complied with Monzos onerous requirements and yet still didnt get his money back. He felt 
Monzo had been reluctant and hed done everything he needed to assist.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. They agreed Monzo had 
delayed things but felt the £30 compensation offered was fair. They didnt think Monzo had 
acted unfairly otherwise, and so didnt suggest it needed to do anything further.
Mr P disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
I shared the evidence the merchant provided to Monzo with Mr P. I then told both parties that 
my provisional thoughts, based on the information Id seen, were that I didnt think Monzo 
had acted unfairly.
In response, Mr P told us he didnt think the evidence the merchant had provided Monzo was 
persuasive. He also told us his girlfriend had written a letter to Monzo in support of his 
chargeback in November 2020 which was sent in the post. Mr P shared a copy of this letter 
which stated that the parcel was compromised on arrival  that it was cut open and badly 
resealed, with the item missing.Monzo said it never received this letter.
After reviewing this evidence and the responses from both parties, I issued some provisional 
findings to both Monzo and Mr P so that both had the opportunity to comment before a final 
decision was issued. My provisional findings were:
I note Mr P is unhappy with the entirety of the chargeback process. Id like to reassure him, 
and Monzo, that Ive carefully reviewed all the evidence and submissions in this complaint 
before reaching my decision. But I wont be commenting on every single interaction/step in 
the process. I mean no disrespect by this and I can see how strongly Mr P feels about this 
complaint. But our service offers an informal resolution process and so Ill be focusing on the 
issues I consider to be key.
Mr P feels the entire chargeback process was lengthy and difficult. Id like to start by 
clarifying that Monzo doesnt determine the chargeback process  this is the responsibility of 
the relevant card scheme. So, when considering if Monzo acted fairly here, Ill be looking at 
whether Monzo has complied with the chargeback scheme rules. Whilst I appreciate Mr P 
may still feel the timescales outlined within the scheme are too long, this isnt a complaint I 
can consider against Monzo. Id also note here that this is a voluntary scheme, so its not 
something the scheme providers are required to offer.
Whilst Mr P may have felt Monzos requests for additional information at the beginning of the 
process were onerous, the chargeback rules explain that supporting documents are required 
and must provide sufficient detail to enable all parties to understand the nature of the 
dispute. I note Monzo was also required to provide a specific description of the goods 
purchased. Given this, I think it was fair for Monzo to request the additional information it did, 
for example the itemised order summary, so that it could demonstrate exactly what it was 
Mr P was reporting as missing.
Im also satisfied that it was reasonable of Monzo to ask Mr P to attempt to resolve things 
with the merchant in the first instance  it would have been much more time efficient for 
everyone involved had Mr P been able to do so. Whilst Mr P told Monzo hed phoned the 
merchant, I dont think it was clear if this was for the order or in an effort to resolve the 
complaint. So, I think it was reasonable for Monzo to query this with Mr P and ask for some 
supporting evidence.
There were clearly delays in Monzo submitting the chargeback. I think Mr P sent Monzo the 
information it needed on 4 November 2020, so I agree that according to its own timescales, 
it shouldnt have taken until 2 January 2021 for this to be processed. But I can see that 
Monzo has acknowledged this and apologised, providing £30 compensation. I think this 
amount fairly reflects the frustration caused by the delay and so I dont think it needs to do 
anything further here. I say this noting that its submission still fell within the 120-day 
timeframe outlined within the chargeback scheme rules.
Mr P is also very unhappy with the outcome to his chargeback request  he has not been 
refunded.
When Monzo raised the chargeback on Mr Ps behalf, the merchant defended its position, 
providing evidence to support its account that the order was fulfilled. This included advising 
Monzo it had searched its warehouse and interviewed the person who packed Mr Ps order  
both of which had indicated to the merchant the item was sent. The merchant also provided 
an email from the delivery company confirming that the parcel hadnt been tampered with on 
route. This evidence wasnt shared with Mr P at that time. But I can see Monzo tried to 
discuss this with him but has said it was unable to do so due to security issues.Im aware Mr P doesnt think it was fair Monzo insisted he passed its security process before 
discussing his chargeback. He noted he was no longer a customer, so not bound by its 
terms and conditions. But as a regulated bank handling sensitive personal information, 
Monzo does have a responsibility to ensure it takes steps to protect that information. 
And this is something thats expected of it regardless of whether an individual remains a 
customer. Im satisfied this is not only a fair requirement, but a necessary one given the 
regulations and legislation governing how it handles personal data. Im also satisfied Monzo 
tried to explain why its security processes where in place and gave Mr P the option to verify 
his identity in more than one way. All of which I think was reasonable in the circumstances.
Id now like to address the letter Mr P has recently shared with our service. Monzo checked 
its systems and then carried out a manual post search and it says it didnt receive this. 
Mr P says this was sent to Monzo in November 2020. Where evidence is incomplete or 
conflicting, I have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened. And from the 
evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Monzo received this letter. I say this taking into 
account Monzos testimony and the fact theres no evidence to show this was sent. I would 
also note that the letter isnt mentioned in any of the emails, calls notes or complaint 
paperwork between Mr P and Monzo at that time or thereafter and its existence was only 
raised with our service very recently. If Mr P had submitted evidence in support of his 
chargeback request, Id have expected him to have raised this with Monzo. And whilst the 
letter may have got lost in the post, had Mr P let Monzo know this was being, or had been 
sent, it would have given Monzo the opportunity to confirm it hadnt received this  the 
document could then have been resubmitted. Ultimately, Monzo cannot take into account 
evidence it didnt receive and so I dont think its done anything wrong here.
Its not my role here to comment on Mr Ps dispute with the merchant. But from the evidence 
Ive seen, I also think it was reasonable for Monzo to decide not to pursue the chargeback 
further. Im aware Mr P doesnt think the merchant provided enough evidence for Monzo to 
fairly reach this conclusion, so I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to 
him. But as part of the chargeback process Monzo assessed whether it thought it was likely 
to be successful. Ultimately, at the time it decided not to pursue this further, it had emails 
from the merchant indicating that it had looked into things in more than one way and that it 
couldnt identify any errors on its side. I appreciate this evidence was limited, but I think 
Monzo had even less evidence to support Mr Ps account and, most importantly, it was 
unable to get any further comments or information from him. In these circumstances, I think 
it was reasonable for Monzo to decide it was unlikely to be successful with the chargeback 
were it to ask the scheme provider to arbitrate.
For all of these reasons, I wont be asking Monzo to do anything further here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo had nothing further to add following my provisional decision. 
Mr P disagreed with my findings and did not accept the outcome of my provisional decision.  
Mr P raised a number of concerns about our service and the handling of his complaint, 
including providing Trust Pilot reviews, but he didnt make any further comments about the 
merits of this complaint. 
I have impartially considered the evidence and the further comments Ive received. 
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that Monzo doesnt need to take any further action.My final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman