DRN-4199884
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc will not refund the money he lost after trying to buy a 
puppy online.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr E saw a puppy advertised for sale on a legitimate pet website. The advert 
included pictures of the puppy and a contact number. Mr E noted that the price of £800 was 
quite a bit lower than on other listings.
He contacted the seller on the number given in the advert and paid a deposit of £350 by 
bank transfer from his Santander account. However, he found that very shortly afterwards 
the seller had blocked him from contact, and he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr E reported what had happened to Santander. Santander tried to recover the money from 
the account Mr E had sent it to. But unfortunately, by the time Mr E had contacted 
Santander, the seller had been able to remove all the money from the beneficiary account. 
Nothing remained to be recovered.
Santander also considered this payment under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides additional 
protection when customers fall victim to scams such as this one. But Santander didnt think 
Mr E had taken enough care to check the seller was legitimate before hed sent the 
payment. Santander didnt reimburse him for the money hed lost.
Mr E complained about the banks decision. When Santander said it wasnt willing to change 
its position, he referred his complaint to our service for an impartial review.
Our Investigator looked into what had happened. The Investigator thought Santander didnt 
need to refund Mr E. She said Mr E hadnt had a reasonable basis for believing this was a 
legitimate transaction. In particular she thought the price was too good to be true especially 
at during the time of the pandemic when dogs were in unusually high demand. She noted 
that the account payee details didnt match the name of the supposed seller, and also that 
the explanation that the deposit money was needed to pay for the puppys inoculation didnt 
seem plausible given the seller had claimed to be a legitimate breeder. 
Mr E didnt agree. He was the victim of a scam and wanted his money back. Because of this 
disagreement Ive been asked to make a final decision on Mr Es complaint.
While Mr E has asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to review complaints about other 
events, these have been considered separately and this current decision concerns only the 
payment Mr E made in 2020 for the purchase of a puppy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr E. I can understand why Mr E wants his 
payment to be refunded. However, while I have sympathy for Mr E in what happened, I have 
to recognise that the principal cause of his loss here was the scammer who deceived him. 
I also need to take into account that Santander has a primary duty to carry out the payment 
instructions its customers give it. As a starting point in law, a customer is therefore assumed 
liable for a payment they have instructed to be made.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code can provide additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payment Mr E made falls within the scope of the CRM 
Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions 
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses in some situations. 
Relevant here, this includes where the customer made a payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, selling 
genuine goods, or that the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay.
Santander says this exception applies here. It reviewed Mr Es claim against the CRM Code, 
but it didnt think it was required to reimburse him. 
In deciding this complaint, I must first determine whether Santander has established this 
exception to reimbursement can be fairly applied  in other words, that Mr E made the 
payment without having a reasonable basis for believing either that it was legitimate or that 
he was paying the person he believed he was paying. 
In determining these points, I have carefully considered everything Mr E has submitted as 
well as the evidence submitted by the bank. 
Firstly, I think the advertised price was too good to be true. From what Ive seen there was a 
high level of demand for dogs and puppies at the relevant time, being just after the start of 
pandemic lockdown in 2020. Yet the seller was offering the puppy at a markedly lower than 
usual price. There was no plausible explanation given for this.
I dont doubt the offer would have appeared enticing, considering how cheap it was in 
comparison to other sellers. But a very low price can be one indicator that there is potentially 
something untoward about the seller or the proposed deal.
Besides the low price, there were other factors here that should have raised additional 
concerns about the legitimacy of the seller. Mr E was told that the seller, supposedly a 
professional breeder, needed the deposit money to pay for the standard inoculations - which 
seems to me an unusual reason. He was asked to send payment to a name that wasnt that 
of the supposed seller, a relatively unusual arrangement and likely to prompt concern that 
the money might not be going to the person Mr E thought he was paying.
With these points in mind, I think there was enough that Mr E should have had concerns that 
the seller might not be legitimate. He was putting considerable trust in a stranger here and 
sending money to a seller found online sight unseen and at a considerable discount was 
always a big risk. If he felt he was unable to carry out further checks he should have 
considered walking away from the deal without sending a payment or finding a seller who allowed him to visit in person before making the payment.
In terms of the CRM Code, where a customer made a payment without having a reasonable 
basis for believing they were paying for legitimate goods from a legitimate seller, or that they 
were paying the person they believed they were, then their bank does not need to refund 
them for their loss even when this was due to a scam. I think Santander is entitled to rely on 
that here  I think it has done enough to establish that Mr E didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing this was legitimate.
Based on what Santander could reasonably have known at the time, this payment wasnt 
one which would have particularly stood out as being at risk of being connected to a fraud or 
scam. With this in mind I dont think Santander needed to give an Effective Warning under 
the terms of the CRM Code, so I cannot find it at fault if it did not do so here. And I dont 
think Santander needed to take specific steps at the time, such as intervening directly before 
it would release Mr Es payment. 
Lastly, when Santander was made aware of what had happened, it acted appropriately and 
tried to recover the funds, although none remained. I understand from the beneficiary bank 
that all of the money had been moved on very quickly after the payment had been made and 
prior to Mr E notifying Santander of the scam.
In short, I dont find Santander is to blame for Mr Es losses. I dont find it is liable to refund 
Mr E under the terms of the CRM Code either. 
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr E and 
I am sorry he has lost out here. He was the victim of a cynical scam designed to defraud him 
of his money and provide nothing in return. But I can only look at what Santander was and is 
required to do  I have no power to consider the actions of the criminal scammers who were 
ultimately responsible for Mr Es loss. And I dont find Santander is required to refund him 
under the CRM Code, nor that the bank was at fault in making the payment Mr E had 
instructed it to make or for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman