DRN-4068676
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by CST Wealth Management Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr D met with CST in September 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He was 
also concerned about the situation with his employer and the DB scheme. 
CST completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that he was age 31 and his partner was age 29. They had two children aged 
seven and two. He was employed at Tata earning around £38,000 per annum. He also had a 
second, part time, employment. His partner was also employed part time. They owned their 
own property which was valued at £70,000 and had an outstanding mortgage of £55,000. 
Mr D had a modest amount of other debt, and he had some cash savings. He didnt have 
any investments. 
CST also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, and it said he was a moderate 
risk taker with an adventurous risk profile of eight on a scale of one to ten. 
In respect of Mr Ds pension arrangements: 
Mr D had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS in 
August 2017. This showed that he had just over six years service. He was entitled to 
a pension of about £3,400 per year at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV 
was about £67,500.  
Mr D had also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. He was 
contributing 6% of his salary into this and his employer was contributing 10%.
Mr D also had a DB scheme membership in his part time employment. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
On 31 October 2017, CST advised Mr D to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were that Mr D wanted:
The option to retire earlier than the schemes normal retirement age without a 
reduction of his benefits. 
His family to benefit from the higher death benefits a personal arrangement had in 
the event of his early death
To receive a sustainable but flexible income
To break all ties with his employer in relation to his pension and bring the funds 
under his control.
To address his concerns about his BSPS benefits moving to the PPF.
Mr D accepted CSTs recommendation and transferred his DB scheme funds to a personal 
pension.
Mr D complained in 2022 to CST about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that he 
was not told that he should have stayed in the BSPS2 and his investment would cost him a 
lot of money because of the charges. There were no cash flow models or discussions about 
what would happen on his death. This has all caused him a lot of worry and distress.  
CST didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It reconsidered the advice in detail and said that it was 
very unlikely that Mr D would be worse off in retirement. Any annuity he purchased in the 
future was likely to be greater than the pension he gave up from the BSPS2. And it was also 
likely to enable Mr D to retire early and it gave him the flexibility that he wanted. He wouldnt 
have had this with the PPF or the BSPS2. CST didnt see any grounds to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. 
Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator 
recommended the complaint be upheld and recommended that CST pay compensation, 
including £300 to address Mr Ds distress and inconvenience. He said that the BSPS2 and 
the PPF were viable, and these options should have been explained to Mr D. He was 
relatively young and he had a long time to build up benefits in the DB scheme. So, he would 
already have some flexibility. And the growth rates required to match the DB scheme 
benefits (the critical yields) showed that Mr D was likely to receive lower benefits than the 
DB scheme. And whilst the death benefits were important, they werent a good reason to 
transfer the funds from the DB scheme. And so, the transfer wasnt in his best interests. 
CST disagreed, saying that the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has 
reviewed this advice and found that it was suitable for Mr D. It said that if an Ombudsman 
were to uphold the complaint it would like clarification on the technical aspects of why their 
opinions about the advice differ. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
The FCA has since developed, and now provides, a BSPS-specific redress calculator. Both 
parties to the complaint have been informed that I will likely award compensation based on 
this. And as no agreement has been reached, Im now issuing a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CST should have only considered recommending a 
transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Ds best interests. And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that CST was required to carry out by the 
regulator calculated the critical yield. This showed how much Mr Ds pension fund 
would need to grow by each year to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme. 
The critical yield was 4.85% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to 
under the BSPS2 at age 65 and 4.31% if he took a reduced pension and tax-free 
cash. The same calculations for his age 57 were 5.83% and 5.15% respectively. To 
match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 4.21% 
and again if he took a reduced pension and tax-free cash this was 4.01%. 
It was recorded that Mr D had a relatively high attitude to risk, and I can accept that, 
given the longer time he had until retirement, that he would be prepared to take some 
risk. But as he had not invested before Im not persuaded that it was in his best 
interests to take a significant risk with his pension benefits. Or that he really 
understood the implications of this.  
I've thought about whether it was likely that Mr D could match the benefits from his 
DB scheme by transferring. In doing so I've compared the critical yield against the discount rate. The discount rate is a measure of what is a reasonable growth 
assumption over time. This was 4.7% to Mr Ds age 65 and 4.6% to his age 57. It 
wouldnt have been in Mr Ds best interests to transfer to, at best, match the benefits 
that he was giving up in the DB scheme. Given the risk of lower benefits that he was 
taking. The discount rate is above the critical yield if Mr D took tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension. So that would indicate a potential for him to be slightly better off by 
transferring particularly if he took tax-free cash at age 65. 
But the scope for any gains were marginal. It seems unlikely that Mr D would 
materially improve on his pension benefits at 65 due to the transfer. And I think Mr D 
was likely to receive pension benefits of a lower value that those hed have been 
entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing in line with 
funds that had a reasonable risk if he wanted to retire early, for example at age 57. 
And the suitability report noted that transferring to a personal pension was not likely 
to achieve the relevant critical yields in order to match the benefits of the DB scheme. 
CST said that, In our opinion these critical yields are not guaranteed to be 
achievable year on year between transfer and your planned retirement age of 57. In 
other words CST recognised that transferring may not likely mean that Mr D would be 
better off in retirement by doing so. So, I think the transfer wasnt in Mr Ds best 
interests for this reason. 
CST said the transfer was suitable for Mr D as it allowed him to potentially retire early 
and to access his pension flexibly. It is true to say the personal pension could be 
more flexible, as from the DB scheme Mr D would have to take any tax-free cash he 
wanted at the same time as he took an income. He wouldnt have had to do this in 
the personal pension. 
But the first problem with this is that Mr D was only 31 at the time of the advice, and 
based on what Ive seen he, understandably, didnt have fully defined retirement 
plans, other than wanting to retire early if possible. So, I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr D to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt 
know what his needs in retirement would be. I think it was too soon to make any kind 
of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
And if CST had advised Mr D to join the BSPS2 and he decided he needed greater 
flexibility than the scheme provided later on, then he could have chosen to transfer 
from that scheme nearer to his retirement age.
Secondly, I understand that Mr D and his employer had begun contributing to a 
recently set up DC pension scheme. Mr D and his employer were together 
contributing around 16% of Mr Ds salary to that pension. Given the amounts that 
were being invested, that his salary and contributions would likely increase over time 
and investment returns would increase all of this, Mr D would likely build up a 
significant amount of money in the DC scheme. 
This would provide Mr D with flexibility  he wasnt committed to take the benefits in a 
set way. Mr D could have taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted the 
income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr D retained his DB 
pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, would have likely given him 
the flexibility to retire early, if that was what he ultimately decided to do. Overall, Im 
not persuaded that Mr D needed to transfer to increase the flexibility in how he took 
his pension benefits at this time.It was documented at the time of sale that Mr D wanted to improve on the death 
benefits that he had. This may have been because as he wasnt married the 
spouses pension the DB scheme had may not pass to his partner. But the priority 
here was to advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement. 
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr D drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr D may have thought it would. 
If Mr D had wanted to provide a lump sum for his family, CST couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. But it was noted that Mr D and his partner already had 
life cover arrangements (in addition to other insurances) and so its not clear what 
other provision he would need. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately CST should not have encouraged 
Mr D to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ds desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been given on 
the basis hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr D  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr D may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was CSTs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established and Mr D had elected to join this. But even if not, the PPF 
still provided Mr D with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. 
Mr D was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF 
was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held 
about this meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ds best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr D received from CST was 
unsuitable for him.
CST has noted that the FCA has reviewed this advice and found that its suitable. It hasnt 
provided any detail about the investigation the FCA did at the time. So, I cant really 
comment on what the FCA said. 
But, in any event, my role isn't to provide an analysis of the regulator's actions and we dont 
have the same function. Unlike the FCA our job is not a regulatory one. I need to look 
beyond whether a firm has complied with its regulatory requirements. Instead, we consider 
information from both parties and decide, while having regard for relevant law and 
regulations, what we consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. So, I dont think the fact that the regulator has made a separate review impacts on my consideration of this complaint. Nor, does it prevent me from reaching my findings 
independently of the FCAs considerations. And having done so, for the reasons set out 
above, I'm satisfied that CSTs recommendation that Mr D should transfer wasnt in his best 
interests and so wasnt suitable for him.
Our Investigator recommended that CST also pay Mr D £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. Mr D said that finding out that he may be worse off in retirement has 
caused him a lot of worry and distress. I dont doubt that Mr D has been caused concern in 
relation to his retirement planning, in what was already a difficult time for employees of the 
company he worked for. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the 
unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for CST to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
CST must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
CST should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation together with supporting evidence of what CST based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CST should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts CSTs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, CST may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
CST should pay Mr D £300 for the distress caused by the poor advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman