DRN-4200844
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo). Mr C is also unhappy that his 
repayments were not placed on hold whilst his complaint was being investigated.
What happened
In February 2023, Mr C acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. The car was around seven years old and had travelled 44,069 miles when it was 
supplied to Mr C. The cash price of the car was £11,243. Mr C paid a deposit of £1000, so 
the total amount financed on the agreement was £1,243 payable over 60 months.
In his complaint form, Mr C said his car broke down on the same day that he collected it. He 
provided us with a copy of an email he sent to the dealership about it. He said it had lost 
power and the steering was very heavy. Mr C said he contacted the broker to raise a 
complaint. He provided us with a copy of correspondence he sent to the dealership, dated 
13 March 2023, requesting a rejection of the car as hed lost faith in it.  
Mr C said the car was recovered to the dealership where he was told the problem was the 
recalibration of the steering which had been repaired. However, Mr C said the car broke 
down again soon after. 
Mr C said he was told by the dealership to have the car inspected, so in March 2023 he had 
the car recovered to a manufacturer garage, where they identified an issue with the steering 
and calibration. Mr C says he was told the steering and anti-role needed recalibrating. 
However, on driving the car back from the manufacturer Mr C said the car broke down again. 
Mr C said he managed to get a refund from his bank for the deposits he paid, however he 
said the dealership wanted further confirmation of the faults before going ahead with a 
rejection of the car.
Mr C said the whole situation has affected him and his family. He said he had to pay £240 
for the manufacturers invoice and for the recovery costs. Mr C says in settlement of the 
complaint he wants the agreement cancelled, a reimbursement of what hes paid and money 
for storage of the car on his driveway.
Whilst MotoNovo were still investigating the complaint, Mr C brought it to our service for 
investigation. As part of their investigation MotoNovo asked that Mr C arrange for the car to 
be independently inspected which wasnt done. 
In May 2023, MotoNovo issued their final response. They didnt uphold the complaint on the 
basis that they were unable to investigate the issues and confirm the outcome with Mr C.
MotoNovo issued a further response advising Mr C that he was required to maintain the 
repayments under his agreement. Mr C told us his repayments were being recorded as 
missed on his credit file.
Mr C confirmed he was not using the car and provided an image of the mileage, which was 
at 44,358. He also provided an image of diagnostics showing fault codes relating to the 
steering.
Having considered all the information on file, one of our investigators recommended that Mr 
Cs complaint should not be upheld. The investigator felt there was no evidence to show the 
car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators recommendation and asked that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under 
this agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that MotoNovo supplied Mr C with a used car that had travelled around 
44,000 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect 
the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there 
may be signs of wear and tear due to its usage, or that it may require maintenance sooner 
than a less road worn car. 
From the information provided I think its likely there was a fault with the car. This is apparent 
from the manufacturers invoice which identified fault codes in relation to the steering angle 
sensor and calibration. Having considered the car had a fault, Ive considered whether it was 
of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
satisfactory qualityIn his complaint form Mr C provided a chronology of the problems he had with the car since 
the point of supply. This included issues with the steering, warning lights and with it breaking 
down.
MotoNovo said they spoke to Mr C about his complaint but havent been able to reach him to 
arrange an independent inspection to confirm the issues.
The manufacturers invoice advised of fault codes relating to the steering and calibration. 
However, the commentary on the invoice also says:
carried out sensor calibration  tested all ok, customer to monitor and assess
Mr C also provided images of a diagnostics screen showing the car had two fault codes 
relating to the steering and its calibration. Mr C has also said the car continued to cut out. 
I acknowledge Mr C has said that he no longer uses the car, and provided an image of the 
mileage to support this, however, what I havent seen is evidence that the problem was 
present or developing at the point of supply. Under the CRA, this evidence is vital to 
demonstrate that there were faults with Mr Cs car (beyond what would be considered 
reasonable for a car of its age, mileage and condition), that were present or developing 
when it was supplied to him. 
I think it was reasonable that MotoNovo be given an opportunity to have the car inspected by 
an expert engineer. I acknowledge the manufacturers garage has provided some fault 
codes with commentary; however, what theyve provided was not conclusive in its diagnosis 
and suggested the problem was fixed. 
By allowing a further and more in-depth investigation to take place, the problems 
experienced by Mr C would be investigated, along with the fault codes, so both parties could 
better understand whether there are any underlying issues with the car. Without further 
detailed evidence, for example in the form of an inspection report or a full diagnosis, Im 
unable to say whether any of the issues described by Mr C relate to an underlying issue, or 
to something more serious which would render the car to be of unsatisfactory quality. 
All things considered, I dont have the evidence to conclude that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C, and so I wont be instructing MotoNovo to 
take any action in relation to this part of Mr Cs complaint.
repayments
In their final response dated 4 May 2023, MotoNovo advised that Mr C was told during a 
phone call in March 2023 that his repayments couldnt be placed on hold, but that another 
option for zero payments was offered to him. And in May 2023 MotoNovo told us that Mr C 
cancelled his monthly direct debit before any payments could be taken for the agreement. I 
suspect Mr C would have done so as he intended on returning the car. However, the terms 
of the hire purchase agreement highlight the consequences of missing any payments which 
includes a record of the default being passed to the credit reference bureaus. 
I acknowledge Mr C expected the repayments to be placed on hold whilst his complaint 
about the quality of the car was investigated, however I cant see any evidence that 
MotoNovo agreed to this, made provisions in the agreement terms for it or told Mr C that he 
should cancel his direct debit with them.
So having considered the evidence provided, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
MotoNovo to expect that Mr C would continue to make his monthly repayments as agreed, 
and for reporting missed payments to the credit reference agencies. As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, and that 
MotoNovo were acting fairly by expecting Mr C to make his monthly repayments, I dont 
require MotoNovo to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against MotoNovo Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman