DRN-4275175
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the market value U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill 
(UKI) paid for his stolen car when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. Mr F says 
UKI caused delays and didnt provide a replacement car. 
What happened
In December 2022 Mr Fs car was stolen and he made a claim to his insurer, UKI. 
Mr F complained that the market value UKI paid of £6,770 was too low. He said he had to 
chase for an update on his claim. He received a total loss settlement seven weeks after he 
made his claim. He said UKI told him it would take between five and ten days. 
Mr F said it was costing him £150 a week in travel expenses for business purposes due to 
being without his car. He wanted UKI to reimburse him for his travel costs. 
In January 2023 UKI upheld Mr Fs complaint in part. For the delay it caused, UKI paid Mr F 
£300 compensation. 
It explained that under Mr Fs policy, he wasnt entitled to a replacement car as this was only 
available for the duration of repairs. 
UKI had relied on the main motor trade guides to reach its valuation for Mr Fs car. It had 
disregarded one of the guides as it was out of kilter with the others. UKI said its valuation 
was fair. 
Mr F asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator checked the motor trade guides in 
line with our approach. The average of the valuations he obtained were higher than UKIs 
settlement. So the Investigator recommended UKI increase the valuation it paid Mr F to 
£7,386.25. 
UKI didnt agree. Between the Investigator and UKI, it was established that the Investigator 
used a figure of 65,000 miles when checking the guides. But UKI said it used mileage of 
70,000 based on previous MOT records - and Mr Fs claim that he used his car for work 
purposes. 
So UKI wanted an ombudsman to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 June 2023 as I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I 
thought UKI had acted fairly. 
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Mr F didnt reply. So the case has been passed back 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision is on the same lines as my provisional decision as no new information has 
been provided. 
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Fs policy with UKI says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of 
his car: being the cost of replacing his car with another of the same make and model, and of 
a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss. 
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the motor trade guides 
are a reliable way to reach a fair valuation for a car. They provide average valuations based 
on the market for sales for the month of loss - and can provide valuation guides for the same 
make, model, age, condition and mileage as Mr Fs car. 
As Mr Fs car was stolen, it isnt known what the actual mileage was at the time of the theft. 
Mr F told us he believed it was 65,000 miles. 
However, according to MOT records, Mr Fs car had recorded mileage of 65,687 in January 
2022. The date of loss was 4 December 2022, so 11 months later. The previous years 
mileage according to MOT records was 60,010. So - based on these records - the average 
mileage per year was around 5,000. 
Mr F told the Investigator he hardly used his car for work. And so the Investigator used a 
mileage figure of 65,000. But I find Mr Fs statement inconsistent with the information Mr F 
provided when he complained to UKI - and when he brought his complaint to us. Mr F said 
he had incurred losses due to not having his car to travel for business purposes. 
UKI used a mileage figure of 70,000 - based on the fact that the loss date was 11 months 
after the last recorded mileage of Mr Fs car - and consistent with the previous year. 
I find UKIs rationale for using mileage of 70,000 when valuing Mr Fs car as reasonable. 
So Ive looked at the guides based on mileage of 70,000 for Mr Fs car provided by UKI. 
They came to £6,550, £6,990 and £7,890. UKI disregarded the final valuation as it was out 
of kilter with the others. Where we find a valuation is out of step with the others - irrespective 
of whether it is higher or lower - we consider it fair to disregard it. So I dont think UKIs 
approach here was unreasonable. 
So the average of the remaining valuations (£6,550 and £6,990) came to £6,770. This is the 
settlement UKI paid. I think it is in line with our approach and within the range of reasonable. 
So I dont think UKI needs to increase the market value it paid Mr F. 
UKI accepts it caused a delay in settling Mr Fs claim. For the time this took and the 
inconvenience caused, it paid Mr F £300 compensation which I think is fair and in line with 
awards we give for similar circumstances. 
As Mr F isnt entitled to a replacement car unless his car is being repaired, I dont think UKI 
acted unreasonably in not providing him with one. This isnt an unusual term for a standard 
motor insurance policy. 
UKI said it would consider any evidence of travel costs incurred during the claim period 
which Mr F wants to provide. I think this is fair. 
So based on what Ive seen, I think UKI dealt with Mr Fs complaint in a reasonable way. So 
Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman