DRN-3887852
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy non-genuine parts were used when his phone was repaired under his 
mobile phone insurance policy underwritten by American International Group UK Limited 
(AIG).
What happened
Mr F made a claim on his mobile phone insurance policy in November 2022 as he had a 
damaged screen. He submitted the claim via the online portal and the repair was carried out 
on 8 December 2022.
When he received his phone back, the technician told him he would see a warning that a 
non-genuine part had been used but he could ignore it and it would disappear after four 
weeks.
Mr F made a complaint to AIG as he was unhappy a non-genuine (unbranded) part had 
been used. He says hes spoken to the manufacturer, and they told him that because of this, 
the warranty he held with them was now void. He also said he was unhappy as it would 
impact any future sale of his phone.
AIG said the policy terms and conditions are clear that when a device is repaired, it may be 
completed with non-original, third party, or unbranded parts. And they provide a 24-month 
warranty on all repairs for any technical fault they may experience. 
Mr F referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think AIG had done 
anything wrong as the claim had been settled in line with the policy terms. As Mr F remained 
unhappy, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Fs strength of feeling in relation to this complaint and the time
hes invested into it. Whilst I have considered all the information provided by both parties,
I havent commented on all of it. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the informal
nature of our service.
AIG have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and the information they 
provide should be clear, fair, and not mis-leading. The terms and conditions set out the 
agreement between Mr F and AIG and detail the cover provided. In relation to repairs they 
say:
Repairs will be made in accordance with the following (i) using readily available parts (ii) 
with refurbished products which may contain parts which are of similar or equivalent 
specification, and which may include non-original, third party, or unbranded parts, and/or 
(iii) may be performed by non-authorised OEM repair providers. Our insurer will provide a 
twenty-four (24) month warranty on the completed repair performed on the device.
Im satisfied the policy is clear that repairs can be carried out using refurbished products 
which may be unbranded and non-original. 
I understand Mr F feels that where it says may AIG shouldve made him aware that they 
were going to use unbranded parts before repairing the phone so he could make a choice if 
he wished to proceed. However, I dont agree.  When Mr F took out the policy he entered 
into the agreement that this was how his claims would be handled and theres nothing to 
suggest that AIG should seek his prior consent to settle a claim in line with the policy terms. 
Mr F logged the claim on the online portal, if the potential for unbranded parts being used 
was a particular concern to him, he could have called AIG to discuss this before the repair 
was carried out. He then could have decided if to proceed.
Whilst I understand Mr Fs concern regarding the potential future impact in selling his phone, 
it is a fairly common term applied to these types of policies, and I dont think its 
unreasonable for the reasons explained.
Mr F has said that the manufacturer for the phone has told him that, due to the unbranded 
part being used, his warranty will be void and they wont be able to support him with any 
issues moving forward. From what I can see, the phone was under a year old so I 
understand why this would be concerning to him. But AIG have provided a 24-month 
warranty on the repair carried out and I cant say theyve acted unfairly by settling the claim 
in line with the policy Mr F took out.
The terms also say:
Device Warranty
This policy is provided in addition to any applicable manufacturers warranty that applies 
to Your Device. Nothing in this Policy is intended to affect Your rights under the warranty 
or Your statutory rights. If any repairs authorised by our insurer under this Policy 
invalidate this warranty. Our insurer will repair or replace Your Device, as necessary, in 
accordance with the terms of the warranty for the unexpired period.
So essentially AIG will cover Mr F for any potential loss in relation to the manufacturers 
warranty for the unexpired period.
I can see Mr F is unhappy with the quality of the repair, but this is something he needs to 
escalate with AIG so they can consider this in the first instance. Should he remain 
dissatisfied, he can refer this complaint to our service to investigate.
Overall, for the reasons explained, Im satisfied AIG have carried out the repair in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Karin HutchinsonOmbudsman