DRN-1932817
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in February 
1999 alongside a credit card. Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), then trading as Lloyds 
TSB, mis-sold him the PPI. He says he was made to feel he had to take out PPI even though 
had no need for it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think Lloyds did enough for Mr S to be aware that he didnt have to take out the PPI. From 
what Ive seen it looks like he chose to take it out.
 
Mr S says he bought the PPI when he took out the card in a meeting at a branch. Lloyds 
accepts that it made a recommendation that he should buy the cover and that the sale most 
likely happened at a meeting in a branch. So Lloyds needed to make sure that the PPI was 
suitable for Mr S and that the information it gave him about the policy was clear and not 
misleading. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form on which Mr S has ticked a box to show he wanted 
to take out PPI. The form also included some brief details about how the PPI worked and 
how the monthly cost would be calculated  being 77p for every £100 owing on Mr Ss credit 
card.  Given that he agreed to take the PPI at a meeting, I think Mr S would have had the 
opportunity to discuss taking PPI with a Lloyds representative at the time and also to review 
the application form before he signed it. 
Ive seen that Mr S says he was pushed into buying PPI to go with his card. But 
establishing that the policy was sold under pressure (which is what I think Mr S is 
suggesting) is difficult to do, especially given the length of time since the sale happened and 
the fact that we have no way of knowing exactly what was said at the meeting.
So I think on balance Mr S had the opportunity to think about whether he wanted PPI to go 
with his new card and decided he did. 
Ive looked at the sale on the basis that Lloyds needed to make sure the card was suitable 
for Mr S and also that it gave him enough information so that he could make an informed 
choice about whether he wanted to take it. I think he received some information about the 
policy at the time of the sale and would also have been given the full policy text either at the 
meeting or by having it sent to him soon afterwards. 
But its still possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Given that he chose to take it out, though, it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have been 
useful to him if something went wrong. 
I say this having taken into account that Mr S told us he received good sick pay from his 
employer if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness. He also told us he had could take 
early retirement and would receive a lump sum if he did so. But the PPI would pay out in 
addition to Mr Ss available benefits, and for up to 12 months if Mr S couldnt work due to 
accident or sickness, or if he lost his job. It also meant he wouldnt have to rely on other 
sources of funding. So I think the PPI was suitable for Mr Ss situation. 
 
On the question of cost the PPI also looks like it was affordable and Mr S hasnt made us 
aware of any particular issues with being able to pay for it.
Overall, therefore, I think the PPI was suitable and I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr S off taking out the cover. 
Ive seen that Mr S has already been paid back some of the cost of the PPI which was paid 
as commission and profit share. So based on  my findings I dont think Lloyds needs to do 
anything more. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr S on this occasion.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman