DRN-3334543
The complaint
Miss K complains about incorrect messages from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) which 
caused her some distress and inconvenience. She doesnt feel the £50 compensation 
Barclays has offered is sufficient.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciated, due to concern over previous fraud, Miss K choses to go into a branch 
if there is an issue rather than use telephone banking. Unfortunately, that  means it 
takes longer and is more inconvenient to resolve matters. But that is her choice and I 
dont think its reasonable to expect Barclays to compensate her for all the trips she 
makes when this is her preferred way to communicate.
One of the text messages she received that resulted into her going to a branch 
related  to a title  change. Barclays thinks this was a system update due to her 
accounts having different titles attached to them. I do appreciate that caused her 
some inconvenience in making a trip to a branch to resolve.
The second text related to a passcode which Miss K says she didnt request. 
Barclays have evidenced that Miss K did request this to be sent to her by post. 
However, the action generated an automatic text response as well. Although this 
involved another trip to the branch, I dont feel Barclays are responsible for this 
second trip since Miss K had requested the code.
I think the £50 Barclays offered as compensation is fair. It seems likely the title 
change may have been as a result of Barclays wrongly inputting Miss Ks title so I 
appreciate that text caused her some concern and inconvenience. But I think this 
was minimal and I am not aware Miss K suffered any loss as a result.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss K £50 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience if it has not done so already. .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman