DRN-1954507
The complaint
Mrs R says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Nationwide arranged an unsecured loan for Mrs R in 2000. It also sold her a PPI policy, the 
cost of which was added to the loan and attracted interest. The PPI protected Mrs Rs 
repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment and it also included life 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs R didnt agree, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The PPI was sold 20 years ago. So, I dont find it surprising that there are gaps in the 
information thats still available from the sale. Instead, Ive considered the information the 
parties have been able to provide and taken into account experience of how Nationwide sold 
PPI with its loans generally.
Nationwide should have made Mrs R aware she had a choice about taking separate PPI 
and, from experience of how Nationwide made sales like these, I believe it probably did. For 
example, the PPI shows on Mrs Rs signed loan agreement as being optional. 
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mrs R. That said, Nationwide still should 
have provided enough information so that Mrs R could make an informed choice about 
whether the PPI was right for her.
 
In the circumstances, I cant be certain what information Nationwide gave Mrs R. But, if there 
were problems with the sale, Ive no reason to conclude better information would have put 
her off the PPI. I say that because:  
It seems Mrs R was eligible for the cover. And I cant see that shed have been 
significantly affected by anything the PPI excluded or limited cover for.
Im satisfied that Nationwide provided Mrs R with information about the costs of the 
PPI including the interest payable on the loan for the premium.
 
Mrs R was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer and had some savings 
she could have relied on for a time. But the PPI would have paid out on top of that 
and until the end of the loan if she was off work sick. It covered her for 
unemployment too  for up to 12 months per claim. Overall, I think Mrs R would have 
found the extra protection the PPI provided useful.
Some single premium PPI policies didnt give a proportional refund of the premium if 
the loan was repaid early, and that would have made cancelling them more 
expensive than if they did. But Im satisfied this policy would, in any case, have 
provided a proportional refund.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Rs lost out because of how Nationwide sold 
her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman