DRN-3031845
 
The complaint
Mr V complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) have declined his claim for treatment 
provided to his dog M.      
   
What happened
 In June 2020 Mr V bought his dog M from a breeder. M came with 4 weeks puppy pet 
insurance with another provider P. Mr V had the option to continue with the policy provided 
by P if he wished but having heard from a relative that GLI provided good pet insurance 
policies, he decided to make enquiries with GLI about a policy. 
In Ms initial vet checks and injections in June 2020, the vet had mentioned to Mr V that M 
had an innocent/juvenile heart murmur but confirmed that M did not have any of the clinical 
signs of heart disease. He said that these things are common in puppies and often resolve.  
On 15 July 2020, M attended the vets for a urine infection, and the vet recommended a heart 
scan so he could investigate further. 
Following this appointment Mr V wanted to ensure he was covered by insurance if there 
were any issues in the future related to a heart murmur and so he rang GLI and enquired 
whether M would be covered if a heart condition later developed given the vets advice. The 
call handler was unclear about this as they said they could not pre-authorise or guarantee 
any claims and advised Mr V to speak to the claims team. They transferred Mr V but the 
claims team said they could not discuss a policy with him as he was not yet a policyholder. 
Mr V therefore took out a policy online knowing that he had 2 weeks to cancel the policy if it 
didnt suit his needs. His policy with P had not yet expired and he still had the option to 
continue with that. 
Mr V rang the claims team to ask whether the policy would cover him for M if a heart 
condition did develop in the future. They advised that they couldnt guarantee or pre-
authorise any claim but were unclear if it would be treated as pre-existing. Mr V made a 
further call in the afternoon to the claims team to clarify. Again, he felt the advice was 
unclear and he then spoke to the policy team. The call handler advised that Ms heart 
murmur would not be treated as a pre-existing condition provided that he could send in the 
proof of his previous insurance, which would mean that they could waive the 14-day waiting 
period for any claims. On that advice, Mr V felt confident that he had appropriate cover and 
decided to continue with the GLI policy.  He didnt renew the policy with P. 
M had an ultrasound heart scan on 6 August 2020 and Mr V made a claim for the scan. This 
was rejected on 21 September 2020 as GLI considered it to be a for a pre-existing condition. 
Mr V complained to GLI that he has received express confirmation from GLI that the heart 
murmur was not to be classed as a pre-existing condition. He feels that he disclosed 
everything to them, and would not have proceeded with the policy if he had known that Ms 
heart was not covered, and he could have continued his cover with the previous provider P. 
GLI issued a final response in November 2020 declining Mr Vs claim, and he brought his 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Vs complaint. She thought that GLI had not acted 
fairly in declining the claim and upheld Mr Vs complaint.    
GLI disagreed with our investigators view and so the case has come to me to review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen all the correspondence between GLI and Mr V, listened to the calls, and I have 
also seen all of Ms medical notes and GLIs internal notes. I have noted the comments 
made by GLI following our investigators view.  
GLI consider that the condition was pre-existing as the heart murmur was diagnosed prior to 
the policy inception. They have accepted that Mr V was given incorrect advice in the third 
call that he made to GLI, but they say that this incorrect advice shouldnt supersede the two 
occasions on which he was given correct advice and the terms and conditions of the policy 
which he signed up for. They also say that it is notable that Mr V rang on 15 July 2020 after 
he had been told that M would need a heart scan and so he knew that M would need 
treatment when he was taking out the policy. 
There is no dispute in this case about the medical history of M. It is clear that on his first 
attendance at the vets in June 2020 he was noted to have a juvenile heart murmur, which 
are common in puppies and may or may not develop into something later on. The vet didnt 
think it serious enough at that point to recommend any further investigations or treatment. 
On 15 July 2020 M attended the vets for a possible urine infection and at that appointment 
the heart murmur was noted again, and the vet recommended an ultrasound which took 
place on 6 August and cost £475. 
Its therefore clear that the condition which required treatment was present prior to the policy 
inception. All parties are in agreement about that. 
GLI have also accepted that they provided incorrect information to Mr V on 15 July 2020 
about whether the heart murmur was covered by the policy. 
The only question is therefore whether it is fair for GLI to decline the claim as pre-existing 
given that they misadvised Mr V on how they would treat Ms heart murmur in the event of a 
claim. 
I have listened carefully to the calls that Mr V made to GLI and thought about the situation. In the first call Mr V tells the call handler that he wants to know if the heart murmur will be 
treated as a pre-existing condition. The call handler says that he isnt sure, that it may be, 
and they cant pre-authorise. Mr V reiterates that he needs to be sure or there is no point in 
having the policy. He also says that he understands that if it is treated as pre-existing, he 
may need to pay more, but the main thing is that he needs to be confident that he has the 
right cover. The call handler doesnt give him that final assurance, and advises him to ring 
the policy team, and provides a number. 
The second call that day is the last call that he makes. In that call, the call handler is much 
more definite about the cover provided. She confirms that they could look to cover the pre-
existing condition if Mr V sends in evidence of the 4 weeks puppy insurance he has with P, 
and that they will waive the 14 day waiting period. Mr V clearly tells the call handler that M 
needs to have an ultrasound, and he doesnt want to do that if he doesnt have the 
appropriate cover, to which the call handler confirms that ultrasounds are covered up to the 
policy limit of £7,000 per year. At the end of that call, Mr V checks his understanding of the 
call, and has it confirmed back to him that he will be covered for the pre-existing condition of 
the heart murmur. 
I think that having listened to these calls, it is clear to me that Mr V is simply trying to ensure 
that he has the correct policy in place as he is anxious about the health of his pet, and the 
expense of any treatment in the future. He knows that he is covered if he continued with his 
policy with P, and so he doesnt want to cancel that policy unless he has it confirmed that he 
has the right cover. He is provided with definite, albeit incorrect, advice on 15 July 2020, 
having spoken to the policy team as instructed. 
Mr V subsequently cancelled his insurance with P and took the policy with GLI on the basis 
of that advice. Mr V has therefore lost the opportunity to have appropriate cover with P as a 
result of the incorrect advice given by GLIs call handler.
I appreciate that Mr V had previously received advice that claim could not be pre authorised 
and had seen the terms and conditions which excluded pre existing conditions, but I think 
that he was trying to be as open and honest as he could to try and establish whether the 
condition would be classed as pre-existing, he receives reassurance that it wouldnt, and he 
was entitled to rely on that later advice.  
Putting things right
  GLI should assess the claim as if Ms heart murmur was a new condition after policy 
inception. They should process any claim accordingly, subject to any other policy excesses. 
On the conclusion of that claim process, any payments for treatment already met by Mr V 
that GLI must pay should be reimbursed to him and Great Lakes Insurance should pay 8% a 
year simple interest to that amount from the date the payments were made to the date of 
settlement.   
If GLI consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
any interest due to Mr V, they should tell him how much theyve taken off. They should also 
give Mr V a certificate showing this is he asks for one so that he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things 
right by doing as Ive said above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman