DRN-1766323
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained that following his motorbike being stolen his insurer AXA Insurance UK 
Plc unfairly increased his premium and reduced his No Claims Discount (NCD).
What happened
Mr Bs motorbike was stolen in 2018 and when his policy renewed in 2019 his insurance 
premium increased, AXA also reduce his NCD from 9 years to 4 years. Mr B was unhappy 
about this as he was a victim of a crime, and the impact on him seems unfair.
Our Investigator considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
AXA had shown it had treated Mr B in the same way it would treat any other customer in the 
same position, and that the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy clearly explained what 
would happen to his NCD following a claim.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view and thinks the impact the theft has had on him, 
which was not his fault, is unfair.
As Mr B didnt agree this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
renewal premium increase 
Mr B said his premium renewal had increased and he thought the amount it increased by 
was unfair. Its not unusual for insurers to increase premiums when theres been a claim, or 
a change to the insured vehicle. And, providing they treat people fairly, we generally take the 
view that insurers are free to decide how they want to take account of factors that they think 
increase risk when they calculate premium.
While it is unfortunate that Mr B had his motorbike stolen, AXA has shown us that it applied 
its normal pricing criteria to his premium in the same way it would have with anyone else in 
his situation. So, I think it treated him fairly. Mr B also had the opportunity to change his 
insurance provider if he could find a cheaper policy elsewhere.
NCD reduction
It is common practice for an insurer to reduce the NCD following a fault claim. The word 
fault when it comes to describing a claim outcome can be confusing. While it can appear 
that the description is apportioning blame for the incident on the insured person this is not 
always the case. The word fault in insurance terms simply means that the insurer has had 
to pay out in relation to a claim and hasnt been able to recover its outlay from a third party. This is generally the way thefts are recorded.
As Mr Bs motorbike was stolen and AXA incurred a cost it could not recover from a third 
party, I think it has fairly recorded his claim as a fault claim.
Mr Bs motor insurance policy included a clear table that explained following one claim, 
customers with more than five years NCD would have the entitlement reduced to four years. 
This is not unlike the way other insurers treat NCD reduction, and as it was clearly explained 
I dont think AXA have acted unfairly by reducing Mr Bs NCD.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman