DRN-4481508
The complaint
Mr B complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited rejected his travel insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
Mr B was due to catch a flight from the Netherlands to the UK. He says he arrived at the 
airport within the required time but that the airline staff wouldnt allow him to check his bag 
in. This led to him having to purchase a replacement flight.
Unfortunately, the replacement flight was then delayed and so he missed the onward coach 
travel from the UK airport. Mr B claimed for his losses, but the claim was rejected.
Astrenska said if the airline staff denied him from checking in his bag  despite him being on 
time  then that wouldnt be covered under his policy. But Mr B also said the train he caught 
to the airport in the Netherlands was delayed due to the doors not opening on arrival. So that 
was a factor too, and he believes that is covered.
Astrenska said for a claim of that nature to be successful, Mr B would be required to obtain 
evidence from the train company. They also said the coach travel couldnt be claimed due to 
the replacement flight being delayed as the delay was less than the four-hour timescale 
stipulated in the policy.
An investigator here looked into the matter, they felt Astrenska had applied the terms and 
conditions of the policy fairly in rejecting Mr Bs claim, because he hadnt been able to give 
them the required evidence.
Mr B maintained this was unfair, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im not upholding his complaint. That isnt to say I dont 
understand why he feels hes been treated unfairly, its just that Astrenska have applied the 
terms and condition of the policy reasonably.
If, as Mr B has said, he arrived in time to check his bag in at the airport  but was denied 
from doing so  then that would be an issue between him and the airline. I wouldnt expect 
an insurer to cover such a scenario.
The policy does cover missed departure, but only in certain circumstances. This is quite 
usual for travel insurance policies and, in general, it is for the claimant to demonstrate that 
they have a valid claim by providing whats required in the terms and conditions of the policy.
The relevant condition in this case says:
You must have written confirmation from the public transport carrier [in this case the train 
company] or its agents confirming the reason for their not running to timetable and the length 
of the delay including departure time
Mr B says he tried to obtain this but had difficulty in doing so, in part due to the company 
being abroad. The purpose of this condition is so the claimant can demonstrate that the 
missed departure was out of their control. I dont consider this to be unfair and while I do 
appreciate the difficulties in obtaining such evidence from a company abroad, I dont think it 
is impossible  especially as Mr B says they confirmed the delay to him over the phone, they 
just couldnt confirm the reason.
If Mr B had been able to obtain written confirmation, even without the reason, then Id likely 
have expected Astrenska to have given the claim further thought, provided the other policy 
exclusions could reasonably be ruled out. Especially as they seem to be for things the train 
company wouldve been aware of.
Turning to the flight Mr B was able to board, he says that was delayed and had the knock-on 
effect of him missing his onward coach travel in the UK. Claims can be made for travel delay 
in the event of them being four hours or longer, but Mr Bs flight delay was around two hours.
Overall, I understand Mr B has incurred losses which he expected to be covered by his 
insurance. Its also clear hes found the whole experience frustrating, and it has impacted 
him financially. But I cant say Astrenska have treated Mr B unfairly so I cant require them to 
pay his claim.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman