DRN-3246685
The complaint
Mr M and the estate of Ms B are unhappy with the amount The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited has paid them following the maturity of their endowment policy.
What happened
Mr M and Ms B took out a joint endowment policy with Scottish Life. The policy was later 
taken over by Royal London and matured in March 2003. Mr M and Ms B didnt receive the 
maturity value until 2021.
In 2003, Royal London tried to contact Mr M and Ms B about the maturity but it didnt have 
up to date contact details for either of them. It tried to contact them through their mortgage 
lender and the financial advisor they had used later in 2003, but it didnt receive any updated 
contact details in response to this.
In 2020, Royal London carried out a piece of work using a third party to trace customers who 
had policies which had matured, but the amounts not paid out. Mr M and Ms B were located 
and in 2021, when the required paperwork was received from both parties, they received the 
maturity value of their endowment plus some interest.
Mr M and Ms B complained that they have been financially disadvantaged by not receiving 
the sum sooner. They accepted that they hadnt updated their details when they separated 
and moved homes, but explained this was a difficult and busy time. They said that Royal 
London hadnt done enough to trace them when the funds matured. And they argued that 
the maturity amount had depreciated in value and proposed they should receive around 
£1,000 more to account for this, considering the value of the funds in 2003 vs 2021. Royal 
London didnt uphold their complaint.
Mr M and Ms B brought their case to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
set out that it was their responsibility to update their details with Scottish Life/Royal London. 
And she considered it had done enough to trace them. Mr M provided a number of points in 
response to our assessment, setting out other ways Royal London could have traced him 
and Ms B, but this didnt change her view. The case was then passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator set out to Mr M and Ms B, they had a responsibility to update their details 
with their endowment provider. I understand they went through a difficult time and that 
paperwork can get lost. However, this is where something first went wrong. Royal London 
didnt know they had moved address, they did. And if they had updated their details with it, 
they would have received the maturity funds in 2003 and not many years later.
Mr M has suggested a number of ways Royal London could have contacted him and Ms B. 
But I have to consider whether what it did do was reasonable  which isnt the same test as 
whether it did absolutely everything it could have done. I consider it contacting the lender 
and financial advisor reasonable steps in 2003. And it had no control over their responses 
(or lack of) to it. Without new contact details, it couldnt find Mr M and Ms B and it had no 
power to compel the other businesses to reply  if they did even have up to date details.
I can see further contact was made by it in 2008 to the lender and again no response was  
received at this time. I dont think its reasonable to expect it to contact Mr Ms employer to 
see if he still works there. Or for it to carry out the other resource intensive steps Mr M has 
suggested when ultimately this issue stems from him and Ms B not updating their details. 
There could also be data protection issues with Royal London carrying out some of the steps 
Mr M has suggested, especially as he and Ms B stopped paying for the policy nearly twenty 
years before it matured.
I therefore dont agree Royal London should pay them any additional funds. It has made an 
interest award on the maturity value which I think is fair in the circumstances. It didnt 
deliberately withhold their funds for such a long time or cause any protracted and/or 
avoidable delays when it did have the correct information.
Mr M has said he recalls receiving a letter in 2016, so considers Royal London did have his 
correct information at that time. But Royal Londons records dont support it contacting him at 
this time or it holding his correct address until 2020. Hes set out that he thought it may be a 
scam at the time as he didnt recall having the policy then, possibly it was, as theres nothing 
in Royal Londons records that support it contacting him. So while I have considered this 
point, I dont have enough evidence to uphold this complaint from this testimony alone.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and the estate of Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and the 
estate of Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman