DRN-4239488
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has proposed to settle 
a claim made on her home insurance policy after a fire. She is also unhappy with the service 
provided.
Miss M is assisted in this matter by Mr S and he has raised points on her behalf. However, 
for ease, Ill refer to Miss M throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the issues and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Miss Ms property was damaged by a fire in January 2022, and she made a claim on her 
home insurance policy with Lloyds.
Its notes show when Miss M contacted Lloyds to make a claim, she told it she was staying 
with her partner when the insured event occurred. Later, she told Lloyd she wasnt living at 
the property, her friend was. After Lloyds had investigated this matter, it transpired the 
property had been rented to a person known to Miss M since January 2019. Had Lloyds 
been aware of this information at the time the policy was renewed with it, it would have 
offered the policy on different terms and charged a different premium. Notwithstanding its 
rights under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), it 
allowed Miss M to make a further premium payment to it. Lloyds then settled Miss Ms claim 
for loss of rent.
Miss Ms policy allowed for the reinstatement of the property in the event of a fire. However, 
due to a lack of contractors in the area, Miss M obtained her own quotation for the works 
needed to reinstate the property. Lloyds covered the costs of the architects plans, structural 
engineer and building warrant requested by the contractor. The quote was £296,495 plus 
VAT and dated 6 July 2022.
Anticipating the cost of reinstatement was more than the value of the property, Lloyds 
requested valuations of its value immediately before the insured event. Although it requested 
several valuations, there were issues obtaining them due to the location of the property. 
Ultimately, one valuation was obtained - after visiting the property on 28 September - of 
£165,000 prior to the fire. The report was dated 26 October and stated the likely market 
value at the time of the report, reflecting the fire damaged condition of the property and 
assuming it was sold at auction, was £45,000. As this was significantly less than the 
quotation for reinstatement of the property, Lloyds offered to pay Miss M the diminished 
market value (DMV). That is, the difference between the open market value of Miss Ms 
property before the insured event (£165,000) and the open market value of it after (£45,000).
Initially, Miss M said she would obtain a further valuation but later decided she wouldnt do 
this and was willing to accept £250,000 as she intended to rebuild the property. Lloyds didnt 
agree to increase its offer. Miss M complained about this and the service shed received, 
including lacklustre service and communications, a case handler who was deliberately trying 
to confuse her and a lack of support.
Lloyds didnt agree to change how it proposed to settle the claim. It accepted there had been 
delays in the matter and, although some had been caused by the difficulties in obtaining 
valuations from third parties, it apologised for the time this took and lack of updates about 
this. However, it also explained some time had been spent at the outset of the claim due to 
its investigations regarding the property and who was living there. Even so, it paid loss of 
rent to Miss M throughout. To apologise for the failings itd identified, it paid Miss M £400.
Miss M was unhappy so she referred the matter to this service for an independent review. 
The Investigator looked into matters and thought the complaint should be upheld, 
recommending Lloyds reinstate the property or by offering a cash settlement for Miss M to 
do the repairs herself.
Miss M accepted the Investigators recommendation. Lloyds disagreed. It made several 
points including the following which are summarised below.
 
The purpose of the insurance policy is to put Miss M back in the same financial 
position as she was in before the loss. Its proposal of DMV would do this as she 
would be able to buy another property which she can rent out in the same area. In 
the meantime, Miss M has been paid for the loss of rent and hasnt been put in a 
worse position.
The policy terms allow it to do this by rebuilding, repairing or making a money 
payment. This includes using the DMV method. And the choice of which method to 
use is for the insurer, Lloyds.
It didnt consider Miss M was likely to reinstate the property particularly given the 
difference between the amount required to reinstate it and the amount she has said 
she would accept. It also noted no notice had been given to the tenants before the 
fire to recover possession of the property and paid loss of rent on the basis the 
tenancy wouldve continued.
The DMV term is included in the policy to ensure it pays claims in line with its policy 
terms and keeps premiums at a sustainable level for all customers.
When Miss M originally corrected her misrepresentation and said itd been rented to 
a friend for two years, it carried out its own checks which showed various people 
living at the property. When raised with Miss M, she confirmed she had rented the 
property out since 2015.
The more intricate details concerning the mortgage would be discussed as part of the 
settlement process.
Miss M told the Investigator she asked Lloyds to pay at least £250,000 and, although this 
wouldnt have been enough to fix the property, she was thinking of getting a loan for the 
remaining costs to rebuild it. She needs to do this and move in herself as there isnt enough 
room where shes currently living (with her partner) and two children.
The Investigator and Lloyds communicated about this, but these points didnt change the 
Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached, this matter was passed to me for a 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties on 20 November and my findings are set out 
below.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome.
Having done so, I must tell Miss M I dont currently intend to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Misrepresentation
Firstly, I wanted to explain insurance customers are required to make a fair presentation of 
the risk (or take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation) when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy of insurance). This duty also applies when renewing a 
policy.
If a customer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation 
is a qualifying breach or misrepresentation meaning the insurer must show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the customer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
Here, Miss M didnt tell Lloyds the property was rented out and Im satisfied Lloyds wouldve 
offered the policy on different terms if she had. So, I consider a qualifying breach was made. 
Even so, Lloyds ultimately decided to accept Miss Ms claim and allowed her to top up the 
premium that wouldve been due had she given Lloyds accurate information on renewal.
Whilst Lloyds isnt seeking to rely on Miss Ms misrepresentation to avoid her policy or pay 
her claim proportionately (the remedies set out under the relevant law which I consider may 
have been available to it in this matter), Ive taken the misrepresentation  and impact of it  
into account when considering Miss Ms complaint.
Settlement method - DMV
The starting point of any claim made under an insurance policy is the contract between the 
customer and the insurer - the policy document.
Having determined the cost to reinstate Miss Ms property significantly outweighed the 
market value of it before the insured event, Lloyds decided the most appropriate way to 
settle her claim was by awarding her the amount by which her property had diminished in 
market value because of the fire.
To do this, Lloyds relies on the following term which it says is set out in Miss Ms policy.
This section details how we settle claims under your policy. We decide how a claim will be 
settled
How we settle a claim under your buildings cover and buildings  optional accidental 
damage cover:
 
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is 
damaged (using a suitable equivalent material wherever possible) but not more 
than the cost of completely rebuilding it in its original form.
 We have the option of giving you a money payment instead of repairing or 
rebuilding your home. We will either:
 
pay the cost of repairing the damage less an allowance for wear and tear or;
pay the difference between the open market sale value of your home prior to 
the damage and its open market sale value after the damage.
Taking everything into account, Im currently satisfied the DMV approach is the most 
appropriate way for Lloyds to settle Miss Ms claim in this particular matter. I dont, therefore, 
currently intend to interfere with Lloyds decision in this matter. I say this for a number of 
reasons which are, in summary, set out below.
 
I havent seen any evidence a settlement based on DMV isnt going to place Miss M 
in the financial position she wouldve been in were it not for the fire. Particularly as 
Lloyds has agreed to pay Miss M (subject to the remaining policy terms and limits):
 
othe property value (subject to it being transferred to Lloyds and I consider this 
should reasonably be at Lloyds cost); and
oup to £2,500 for the legal fees of Miss M buying a new property.
I also understand the more intricate details concerning the contents claim (which relates to 
carpets only), loss of rent claim, availability of a mortgage and any additional costs such as 
stamp duty will be considered by Lloyds, if applicable, as part of the settlement process.
 
The policy Miss M took out with Lloyds isnt designed for the type of loss Miss M has 
sought to use it for  which is that of a landlord renting out a property.
 
Lloyds wasnt aware Miss M was insuring a tenanted property  neither at the time 
the policy was renewed or when Miss M first made the claim. Lloyds wasnt given 
accurate and full information about the property which had been rented out by Miss 
M for a number of years. And this was only done after Lloyds had carried out its own 
investigations.
 
I acknowledge Miss M now says shes intending to live at the property, and this is 
why it must be reinstated by Lloyds. However, Im satisfied in this matter its 
important to consider what was happening at the date of the insured event. At that 
time, Miss M wasnt living at the property - it was being treated as a rental and an 
investment for a number of years prior.
Lloyds has provided an expert opinion the property was worth £165,000 at the time 
immediately before the fire. I havent seen any evidence to counter the view of Lloyds expert 
and Im aware Miss M has had time to provide it. I therefore currently consider it reasonable 
to conclude the property was worth £165,000 at the time immediately before the fire. In light 
of the location of the property, Lloyds has agreed to pay this amount to Miss M in return for 
her transferring the property to it. It has also explained the legal and other costs of Miss M 
doing this will be considered by it as part of the settlement process. I consider this to be a 
reasonable approach for it to take to settle Miss Ms claim. It follows I dont currently intend 
to uphold her complaint.
Finally, I note Miss M has asked for further compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her for the poor service shes received. I am aware Lloyds paid £400 to Miss M for 
this. Balancing all the circumstances in this matter, I consider this to be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and likely more than I wouldve awarded had this amount not already 
been paid to Miss M.To be clear, my decision in this matter isnt indicative of this services general position on an 
insurers use of the term to settle a matter on a DMV basis. Each case is decided on its own 
specific merits.
Lloyds confirmed it accepted the provisional decision. 
Miss M responded to express her disappointment with the decision. However, she explained 
she understood the reasons that were taken into consideration. Ultimately, she feels she has 
no alternative but to accept the offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted the provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from it. It follows I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman