DRN-2883898
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly blocked his account and discriminated against 
him.
What happened
Mr T had a dormant account with Lloyds which he requested to be reactivated on 31 March 
2021. Lloyds blocked his account on 8 April 2021 due to unusual activity. Mr T complained to 
Lloyds about this. He said that he felt the bank was being racist towards him and had 
suspended his account for no good reason. Mr T said he was unable to access his finances 
during the block. The block was removed on 14 April 2021.
Lloyds did not uphold Mr Ts complaint as they said that theyd correctly followed their 
procedures in blocking his account. They said that he would be able to withdraw his salary or 
benefits from the branch while the account was still blocked by visiting the branch with 
identification. Mr T brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. He said that while it would be frustrating for Mr 
T to have his account blocked and that he felt he was being racially discriminated against, he 
did not feel from the evidence that Lloyds had treated Mr T unreasonably or unfairly. Our 
investigator also said that its a requirement for banks to spot unusual activity on an account 
and investigate it. Mr T asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said if the 
bank felt it was a fraudulent transaction then they should have rejected the money and sent 
it back. He also said he had told Lloyds what he would be using the account for when he 
reactivated the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ive considered whether Lloyds were fair to block Mr Ts account. The terms of Mr Ts 
account explain that Lloyds has the ability to stop or suspend your ability to make payments 
using any device or security details if we reasonably consider it necessary because of 
security and unauthorised or fraudulent use of your security details. Mr T hadnt used this 
account for around 15 years and it was classed as dormant. So the transactions on the 
account being made after such a long time were classed as unusual and Lloyds wanted to 
look into them in more detail. I think thats fair here and in line with the terms of the account. 
That would, of course, cause Mr T some inconvenience  as it would any customer. But 
thats not to say that Lloyds werent entitled to perform further checks  I think they were and 
Im satisfied they did so fairly.
Although Mr T has said that Lloyds should have sent the money back if they thought it was 
part of a fraudulent transaction and he told them what he was using the account for when he 
reactivated it, the terms and conditions show that the account could be suspended and they 
do not state they will send money back where it came from. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to allow 
the money to be simply returned if they thought it was part of a fraudulent activity as they 
would not be meeting their regulatory duties if they returned it. Because of this, I think Lloyds 
acted in line with the terms of account when blocking the use of Mr Ts account as they had 
concerns about security and potentially fraudulent activity. As the transactions on the 
account were being made after the account had been dormant for such a long time they 
were classed as unusual and Lloyds wanted to look into them in more detail So, I cant say 
they did anything wrong by blocking Mr Ts account, even if he was inconvenienced by this.
Ive considered what Mr T has said regarding the decision to block his account being a result 
of racial discrimination. I must make it clear to Mr T that discrimination is a matter of law, set 
out in the Equality Act. Its for the courts to make findings on matters of law, and it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to make a finding that Lloyds acted in breach of the Act. Although I am 
required to take law into account, if its relevant, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of a complaint.
Here though, Im satisfied that Mr T was treated fairly in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. I say this as Lloyds identified unusual activity on his account and opened an 
investigation. Lloyds has shown that the investigation here was based on the activity on the 
account and thats in line with what the terms of the account say. Im satisfied this was a 
genuine and legitimate reason for them to take the actions they did and wasnt motivated by 
anything other than wanting to look into the nature of the transactions here. 
The investigation was concluded in a timely manner and Mr T would have been able to 
access income from salary or benefits at a branch during the time of the block. So although 
Mr T will have been frustrated by what happened here, Im satisfied they treated him fairly. 
So it follows I will not be asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman