DRN-3860089
The complaint
Mr A, the Sales Director and owner of E, complains that ReAssure Life Limited unfairly 
declined a claim for Total and Permanent Disability benefit.
What happened
Mr A is the Sales Director and owner of E. In April 2004 E took out a reviewable Critical 
Illness Policy with Life Cover (the policy) with an insurer that has since been acquired by 
ReAssure. For simplicity, Ill refer to ReAssure throughout this decision.
The policy initially provided a £100,000 sum assured in the event Mr A died, was diagnosed 
with a listed critical illness, or became totally and permanently unable to perform his own 
occupation  listed in the policy schedule as Sales Director. The sum assured increased 
following subsequent policy reviews.
Mr A began suffering heart problems in 2010 and was later diagnosed with paroxysmal atrial 
fibrillation (AF). He underwent two ablation procedures and had a cardiac loop recorder fitted 
to help monitor his condition. The cardiac loop recorder was most recently replaced in 2020. 
Mr A made an unsuccessful claim for Total and Permanent Disability Benefit (TPD) in 2019.
In January 2020 he stopped working and closed E. He said he could not continue with such 
high levels of stress and so could not continue in his role as Sales Director.
In June 2021 Mr A attempted to return to part-time work for another company but found he 
was too fatigued, so stopped after 4 weeks.
Mr A made a further TPD claim in 2021. ReAssure arranged a functional capacity evaluation 
(FCE), to assess if he met the policy definition of TPD. Having considered the FCE report, 
together with his medical records, ReAssure declined the claim. It explained that while Mr A 
experienced symptoms of AF, the evidence did not support that he was totally incapacitated 
because of it. It noted that Mr As AF was well-controlled, and he wasnt under any active 
care or treatment. The FCE also concluded that, with support, hed likely be able to return to 
work.
Mr A referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He felt ReAssure had unfairly 
declined his claim as he said he was no longer able to work in his role as a Sales Director 
and believed he never would again.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She noted that the evidence 
supported that while Mr As diagnosis had clearly had a significant impact on him, it was well 
controlled by medication, and under constant monitoring via the cardiac loop recorder. She 
also noted the FCE had concluded that while Mr A would struggle to work at a high intensity 
on full-time hours to begin with, with support and treatment (for example a work hardening 
programme) and a phased return to work he would be able to work in a sustainable way. 
Mr A didnt accept our Investigators conclusions and made a further appeal to ReAssure. He 
disagreed with the FCEs conclusion. In summary he said:
It was not fair to judge his ability to return to light work as consistent with the 
realities of his job as a Sales Director, which involved consistently long hours working 
at high intensity.
While he felt he may be able to return to some part-time work, this was not consistent 
with or equivalent to his full-time position. It would also be hard to find given his age 
and health condition.
He could not return to work because E had closed.
His condition is totally and permanently disabling. He gave up his occupation 
because he was unable to manage the hours necessary to make the business 
sustainable.
His GP had never recommended further treatment or support. And the treatment 
suggested in the FCE had never been offered to Mr A and was not readily available 
on the NHS.
His condition means hes at a 50% increased risk of having a stroke. He carefully 
controls his AF by taking medication and controlling his daily exertion, which included 
the decision to give up full time work. He made this difficult decision to protect his 
long-term health.
ReAssure considered Mr As additional points, which included obtaining the opinion of its 
Chief Medical Officer (CMO) but maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said it 
understood Mr As reasons for deciding to stop work, but the evidence did not support he 
was totally unable to work. It said the evidence didnt support that Mr As diagnosis with AF 
should have completely prevented him from working. It acknowledged Mr As stress and 
anxiety in relation to his condition but remained of the view that with the right support he 
could either have adapted his work or found alternative employment. It acknowledged Mr As 
concerns regarding his age but noted the policy definition is based on whether the insured 
person is incapable of working up to age 65.
Mr A still disagreed and so asked for an ombudsmans review.
Mr As complaint was passed to me to decide. On 1 December 2022 I issued a provisional 
decision where I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read about Mr As diagnosis with AF. Its clear he has been, and 
continues to be, severely impacted by it. And I dont doubt it must have been a very 
difficult decision to give up his business due to his health concerns.
But setting aside my natural sympathy for Mr As circumstances, I cant order 
ReAssure to pay a claim unless theres clear, persuasive medical evidence to show 
the policy terms and conditions have been met in full. I must be fair and reasonable to 
both parties.
Having reviewed everything weve been sent, including Mr As most recent letter, I 
dont intend to uphold this complaint. I realise this will come as a disappointment to 
him, so Id like to explain how Ive reached this decision.
In considering this case, I must look strictly at what the policy was designed to offer 
and what the policy terms and conditions provide for. The policy provides TPD on an 
Own Occupation basis. The policy schedule lists Mr As insured occupation as Sales 
Director. For a TPD claim to be paid, the following definitions must be met:Where the Relevant Life Assured is below age 65 and insured on an Own Occupation 
basis, we will pay the Sum Assured if the Relevant Life Assured becomes totally 
Permanently and Irreversibly Disabled.
Disabled or Disability means:
(a) where the Relevant Life Assured is insured on an own occupation basis and the 
Relevant Life Assured is unable to perform the Insured Occupation as the result of 
accident of illness
Permanent and Permanently means expected to last throughout life, irrespective of 
when the Relevant Life Assured is expected to retire or when the Policy is due to come 
to an end.
Irreversible and Irreversibly means the Disability cannot be cured by medical 
treatment and/or surgical procedures used by the National Health Service in the UK (or 
any service which replaces it) at the time of claim. 
Occupation means a trade, profession or type of work undertaken for profit or pay. It 
is not a specific job with any particular employer and is independent of location.
So, for a claim to be successful, ReAssure would need to be satisfied that Mr A is 
totally unable to perform the role of a Sales Director  rather than the more specific 
role of running E. And that his disability (i.e. his inability to perform his occupation, 
rather than the existence of AF) is irreversible and expected to last throughout his life.
 
ReAssure concluded that the evidence did not support Mr A was totally unable to work 
as a Sales Director. It also considered his condition could be improved with 
appropriate support. I think these conclusions were reasonable based on the available 
medical evidence.
In assessing the claim, ReAssure first obtained a report from Mr As GP (who Ill refer 
to as Dr N). Dr N noted that stress could cause Mr As heart to race. He said I agree 
with [Mr As] decision that he should avoid everything that can precipitate a relapse of 
his symptoms. As of now, there is no way one could predict when the AF could 
reappear, so as long as this risk stays, one could say this has disabled him from doing 
his usual work. But he suggested that if a further detailed assessment of Mr As work 
capability was needed the opinion of an Occupational Physician should be sought.
While it appears Dr N was supportive of Mr As decision to give up work to protect his 
long-term health, I dont consider this evidence sufficient to show he met the policy 
definition of TPD. Dr N comments on the stress caused by Mr As work, but its unclear 
if hes referring to Mr As role as a Sales Director, or more broadly his role running E. 
From Mr As own reporting it seems that a lot of the stress he encountered was linked 
to running E, while also performing the role of a Sales Director. For example, hes 
referred to the stress caused by driving long distances and working long hours. But 
these elements of Mr As job were specific to his role running E. And as the policy 
definitions above set out, the policy cover isnt specific to Mr As job. And while Dr N 
noted he agreed with Mr As decision to give up work, he did not say he was totally 
incapable of working.
ReAssure then sought the opinion of Dr C, an Occupational Therapist, who conducted 
an FCE with Mr A. The FCE sought to assess Mr As ability to meet the demands of 
his job role through a range of interview questions, observations, and specific testing. 
ReAssure specifically asked Dr C to comment on whether she considered Mr A met the policy definition of TPD. Dr C concluded that while Mr A would struggle to sustain 
his duties in work across an 8-hour workday, he would be able to work a 4-hour 
workday, 5 days a week. She also concluded it is also likely that he could, with 
appropriate support (energy conservation and work hardening programme) [return] to 
a full-time workday, provided he is carrying out activities with MET levels less than 4.0, 
which matches that of the duties required in his job. 
Given Dr Cs conclusions, again I think ReAssure was reasonable to conclude Mr A 
didnt meet the policy definition of TPD as the evidence demonstrated he wasnt totally 
incapacitated  as hed be able to fulfil his role at least on a part-time basis and with 
appropriate support he may be able to return to full-time work. 
Ive carefully considered Mr As response to Dr Cs report, but I dont think he raises 
anything that challenges the veracity of her conclusions.
While I appreciate Mr A disagrees with his role being referred to as light work, my 
understanding is that this relates to the level of physical exertion required to complete 
the role, rather than the number of hours worked, or level of stress it might cause. Dr C 
has evidenced why she categorised Mr As work as light work, with reference to 
specific occupational therapy publications. Having reviewed her report as a whole, Im 
satisfied Dr C understood the requirements of Mr As role and reached her conclusions 
in light of that. 
Mr A seems to accept that he could do some work on a part-time basis, but felt hed be 
unable to continue his role full-time or work at the same intensity as before. Mr A also 
raised concerns about his ability to find part-time work that paid what he expected to 
earn, given his age and health conditions. I can understand why Mr A would expect his 
policy to provide benefit in these circumstances. But the policy is only designed to 
provide cover in the event that Mr A was totally unable to perform his occupation. So, 
the fact that Mr A was able to work in some reduced capacity means he was not totally 
disabled. The TPD benefit is also based on his ability to perform the generic 
occupation of Sales Director, rather than his ability to work as a Sales Director for E. 
So, the fact that E no longer operates would again not mean that Mr A met the policy 
definition, as he could work as a Sales Director for another company. Again, a TPD 
claim would be judged on Mr As ability to perform his insured occupation, not whether 
such a position was available or was offered on terms Mr A found acceptable. 
Mr A has also questioned Dr Cs conclusions that he could be supported to return to 
work full-time, as he noted that his GP and treating specialists had never 
recommended anything like a work hardening programme to him in the years since his 
diagnosis. While this may be the case, I havent seen any evidence to say that Mr As 
GP and/or treating specialists have suggested that a work hardening programme 
would be inappropriate or that it wouldnt have the benefits Dr C has suggested. In the 
circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for ReAssure to accept Dr Cs opinion 
about the type of support that Mr A may benefit from and that he could be supported 
back to full-time work.
While I understand that Mr A believes strongly that he is totally and permanently 
unable to work in his insured occupation, I have seen no medical evidence that 
confirms he meets the policy definition of TPD. As such, I cannot reasonably conclude 
ReAssure acted unfairly in declining his claim. I realise this will come as a serious 
disappointment to Mr A, but for the reasons set out I do not intend to uphold this 
complaint.I should note that while I have not upheld this complaint, this decision would not 
preclude Mr A, on behalf of E, from submitting another claim in the future if he believes 
he has a valid claim under the policy.
I invited Mr A and ReAssure to provide me with any additional evidence or information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. ReAssure had nothing further to 
add. Mr A disagreed with the decision. 
Mr A explained again why he considered he met the policy definition of TPD. In summary, he 
said: 
The policy was taken out to protect him in the event he was unable to perform his 
own occupation, which was that of a Sales Director.  
Hed advised ReAssure in June 2019 that he intended to close E as he could not 
continue to have such high levels of stress and so he was prevented from carrying on 
his job. 
The FCE was carried out 16 months after Mr A decided to close E, during which time 
hed been convalescing by pacing his workload, taking regular periods of sleep and 
taking medication. 
There was no evidence that Mr A would benefit from a work hardening program, as 
recommended by the FCE, and no evidence that he could work. 
He continues to suffer from AF and when he has an episode hes unable to work for 
at least 24 hours afterwards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Ive carefully considered Mr As points, but I remain of the view that the evidence does not 
support that he met the policy definition of TPD. 
Mr A has suggested that the evidence does not prove that he can work, or that a work 
hardening program would be successful. But I should explain that when claiming under a 
contract of insurance, the onus is on the insured to prove a claim has been met, not for the 
insurer to disprove it. And as I explained in my provisional decision, while I realise Mr A feels 
strongly that hes totally and permanently unable to work again, the available medical 
evidence does not confirm that this is the case.  
I appreciate Mr A took the difficult decision to close E and stop work to preserve his health. 
And while I dont think Mr A would have taken that decision lightly, his decision alone isnt 
enough to show that he was totally, permanently, and irreversibly disabled. I cant see that 
Mr A was medically advised to stop work. And even if he had been, that in itself wouldnt 
necessarily demonstrate he was permanently unable to perform his occupation again. As I 
set out in my provisional decision, Mr As insured occupation (Sales Director) is not the same 
as the specific role he carried out for E. From what Mr A has said, I understand that it was 
the stress of running E that he could no longer cope with. So, while Mr A may never be able 
to work for E again, that does not mean he would never be able to carry out the role of a 
Sales Director ever again.
I understand Mr As concerns that the FCE was not conducted at the time he stopped work, 
and so his condition may well have changed during the intervening period. I also note that 
during that time he had been concentrating on convalescing. But crucially, for a claim to be accepted, Mr A would need to show that his disability was both total and permanent. So, 
while I accept both that Mr A may need to take time off after episodes of AF, and that his 
condition only improved after a significant period of convalescence, these facts do not 
support that he is totally and permanently disabled. 
In summary, having carefully considered everything Ive been presented with, I remain of the 
view that the evidence does not support that Mr A met the policy definition of TPD.  As such, 
I cannot reasonably conclude ReAssure acted unfairly in declining his claim. 
So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision. And for the 
reasons explained I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against ReAssure. 
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman