DRN-4330344
The complaint
Mr P complains that Evelyn Partners Financial Services Limited (Evelyn Partners) didnt 
provide the advice hed requested on transferring his final salary pension scheme to a 
personal pension. And that the delays Evelyn Partners caused to the progress of his transfer 
caused his Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) to fall substantially. 
Mr P considers that he paid for advice that he didnt receive. And that he still doesnt know if 
he should transfer his final salary pension.
What happened
Mr P said his former colleagues advised him to apply for a CETV for a former final salary 
pension. He did so. And on 8 December 2021 the pension administrator wrote to him to tell 
him the CETC was £353,078. It said this amount was guaranteed if Mr P returned all of the 
relevant paperwork before 8 March 2022.
Mr P said he was shocked by the high value. And that he felt transferring his final salary 
pension to his personal pension would significantly increase his efforts to meet his retirement 
goals.
Mr P first contacted Evelyn Partners by email on 17 December 2021. He emailed a specific 
financial adviser who hed used before, as hed been pleased with his advice and response 
times.
Mr P said hed been looking at his finances recently and needed some professional advice to 
meet his retirement goals. He asked the Evelyn Partners adviser if he could perform a full 
review for himself and his wife. He also asked him to provide an estimate of the cost of the 
review. 
The adviser replied to Mr P the same day. He suggested a meeting so that he could have an 
initial discussion with Mr P to allow him to understand the work involved and let him know 
what the costs would be. I understand this initial meeting was held online on 11 January 
2022. 
Evelyn Partners said it provided its Scope of Work letter to Mr P via an online meeting on 17 
January 2022. 
This letter explained what the adviser felt the scope of work was. And summarised it as 
follows: 
Undertake a full review of your current finances and financial planning goals to 
produce a Lifetime Financial Plan.
Review your individual approaches to risk to ascertain Your need for risk'. Your 
tolerance to risk' and capacity for loss'
Present your Lifetime Financial plan face to face and in written form.
It also stated that the charge for this work would be £1,500 plus VAT, or £1,800. And that if 
Mr P wanted to proceed, a further meeting would be arranged to discuss the creation of his 
Lifetime Financial Plan and complete the appropriate letters of authority for Mr Ps existing 
pensions.
Mr P emailed Evelyn Partners on 24 January 2022 to confirm that he was happy to go ahead 
on the basis outlined in the Scope of Work. And asked when it would be available to meet to 
start the process. 
The original adviser replied to Mr P on 25 January 2022 to say hed asked for a face-to-face 
meeting to be scheduled. He confirmed the following day that the meeting would be on 10 
February 2022. 
The original adviser then met Mr P face-to-face on 10 February 2022. I understand that it 
was at this meeting that another adviser took over responsibility for providing advice to Mr P.
Evelyn Partners provided that advisers notes from this meeting. They stated:
It is important to both [Mr P and his wife] that they understand and have clarity on their 
financial future should either stop working due to retirement in the next few years. They 
would like confirmation on a reasonable figure of expenditure in retirement given their 
current assets and income and what needs to be done to meet their aspirations should it be 
required
Additionally, [Mr P] has decided he would like to transfer his deferred final salary scheme 
to a defined contribution/SIPP in order to benefit from the funds earlier and to be able to 
pass on the pension to his beneficiaries
Mr P said he felt the meetings and correspondence with the new adviser were very slow and 
repetitive. And that he didnt take into account the fact that his CETV would expire on 8 
March 2022. 
The new adviser contacted Mr P again on 15 March 2022. He apologised for taking a while 
to get back to him and his wife about the follow up to the last meeting. And asked if he had 
any availability to discuss the inputs for the cash flow model, particularly the life goals.
Mr P contacted the new adviser on 25 March 2022 to arrange a meeting, which I understand 
took place on 6 April 2022, after the CETV had expired.
After the meeting, Mr P sent the new adviser details of his pension. He replied the following 
day to say he would finalise the cash flow and ask for the report to be written up. And that 
hed follow up again with Mr P after the Easter holidays. And on 27 April 2022, he emailed 
Mr P to ask him to scan over pension statements from the final salary pension Mr P wanted 
to consider transferring. He also said that the cash flow report should be ready in a week or 
two.
On 19 May 2022, Mr P said hed got the documents Evelyn Partners needed and would drop 
them at the office the following day. Ive not seen any response to this email. 
On 29 June 2022, Mr P emailed Evelyn Partners to find out how much progress had been 
made with the proposed plan. The new adviser replied the following day. He said he would 
arrange for a meeting to be scheduled so he could discuss the cash flow results with Mr P.
Mr P replied the same day to try to schedule the meeting for 1 July 2022, but this wasnt 
possible. Mr P then contacted the new adviser on 18 July 2022 to ask for a video meeting. On 16 August 2022, Evelyn Partners wrote to Mr P to tell him that his new adviser had 
resigned. And that a third adviser had been looking after his financial planning and cashflow 
report since then. It also wanted to schedule an appointment with Mr P to go through the 
finalised report. 
Mr P emailed Evelyn Partners on 17 August 2022. He said hed felt it was odd that he hadnt 
heard from the second adviser in almost a month. But said that as hed already had to wait 
this long, he might as well wait until the school holidays were over. I understand a meeting 
was arranged for 15 September 2022. But that Mr P had to cancel this on 28 August 2022.
The third adviser met with Mr P and his wife on 13 September 2022 to discuss the cashflow 
projections. After the meeting, he sent them a copy of the cashflow report, which was dated 
28 June 2022, and registered Mr P for The Money Alive portal, which had video links he 
would need if he wanted to consider transferring his workplace pension. 
Mr P emailed the third adviser on 14 September 2022 to tell him hed completed the required 
steps. 
Mr P emailed the third adviser again on 3 October 2022. He wanted to arrange to pay Evelyn 
Partners invoice for the work itd carried out. But he said he felt a little disappointed in the 
service hed received, as the report didnt really give him any indication as to whether he 
should look at taking the funds out of his final salary pension, given the CETV hed received. 
He said this was the original reason hed asked for advice. And asked the third adviser if 
hed had the chance to look at this. 
The third adviser replied the following day. He said that the cashflow planning had been 
carried out to look at the sustainability of retirement income. And that final salary pension 
advice was a completely separate stand-alone topic. He said this shouldve been made clear 
to Mr P at the January 2022 meeting. He told Mr P that after the videos hed looked at, the 
next stage was the Triage stage, which would allow Evelyn Partners to consider the 
likelihood of the final salary transfer being able to go ahead. He said this was important 
given the advice cost would be around £10,000 plus VAT, but could still lead to the adviser 
not agreeing that a final salary transfer would be in Mr Ps best interests. 
Mr P asked for an update on 19 October 2022. 
On 21 October 2022, the third adviser said hed be in touch the following week with an 
update. And on 31 October 2022, he emailed Mr P to tell him that his potential final salary 
transfer was still being looked over. He also said: They seem a bit inundated at the minute 
but at least it is being looked at. 
Mr P asked for a further update on 6 December 2022. The adviser replied the following day 
to say that the original CETV had only been valid for three months, so a new one would 
need to be obtained. But he said that he expected that the new CETV would be much lower. 
If it was, he felt it may steer Mr P towards waiting until things improved. 
Mr P replied to the third adviser on 9 December 2022. He said the process had been 
extremely frustrating. And that itd been almost a year since hed first spoken to Evelyn 
Partners, driven by the CETV hed received. He said hed initially asked Evelyn Partners for 
advice on how transferring his final salary pension could improve his position and what else 
he could do to help achieve his goals.
Mr P said hed ask for a new CETV. And that he felt that if his case had been dealt with 
efficiently he couldve obtained the original high CETV and been in a much stronger position 
to realise his goals.The third adviser emailed Mr P on 12 December 2022 to apologise and to say a call would 
be useful to clarify a few things with him about the process.
Mr P received an updated CETV dated 11 January 2023. He shared this with the third 
adviser the following day. He said he was hugely disappointed that it had fallen by £120,000. 
And asked the adviser for his views.
Mr Ps adviser replied on 13 January 2023. He acknowledged the sharp fall in the CETV. 
And said that as Mr P had until 12 months before his schemes normal retirement age to 
transfer out, he could wait until the CETV had picked up again.
Unhappy, Mr P complained to Evelyn Partners on 29 January 2023. He said hed been 
astonished to see the CETV was for £353,078. He said when hed approached Evelyn 
Partners he wanted advice on whether to transfer his final salary pension. 
Mr P said that meetings with and correspondence from the second adviser were very slow 
and repetitive. And that hed ignored the expiry date of the CETV. He also said that hed only 
found out that the second adviser had left the business on 16 August 2022. And that the 
third adviser had only provided a report dated June 2022 in September 2022. 
Mr P felt the report was a complete waste of time as it didnt even mention the potential final 
salary transfer. He also felt that the third adviser hadnt been given any background on his 
situation, or why hed initially contacted Evelyn Partners for advice. 
Mr P said that the pace of the advice had led to him having to obtain a revised transfer value 
which was £120,000 lower than the initial one. He felt that if Evelyn Partners had given him 
the correct attention and advice in February 2022, he wouldve been able to transfer the 
higher CETV. He also felt that even though final salary transfers were often not 
recommended, his transfer had clearly been a positive thing to do. And that the third adviser 
agreed with him. To put things right, Mr P asked Evelyn Partners to make good on the loss 
he felt hed suffered. 
Evelyn Partners issued its final response to the complaint on 28 February 2023. It didnt 
think itd done anything wrong. It said that in the 17 January 2022 Scope of Work letter, the 
initial adviser had confirmed that the first task would be: 
...a forecast of your finances using a Lifetime Financial Plan. In essence this is a cash flow 
forecast that will plot your income and expenditure for the rest of your lives, whilst 
considering the effects of external forces such as inflation, investment growth, care costs 
and any one-off expenditure items that might present themselves, such as university fees for 
example.
Once the Lifetime Financial Plan has been established, this will form the Blueprint for our 
discussions going forward and will enable me to ensure that your current assets are 
structured correctly in order to achieve your goals. This will include a full review of your 
current pensions, whilst considering alternatives should this be a necessary course of action 
and future provision for these and the lump sum you have available in cash.
As mentioned, the starting point for any Defined Benefit schemes is to leave them 
untouched, however the analysis we undertake will help you understand the suitability of [Mr 
Ps] pensions and whether a transfer is a suitable consideration. If this is the case, the DB 
transfer assessment work will be scoped separately.
So it felt Mr P had agreed that the Lifetime Financial Plan would be needed before he then 
considered whether it might be suitable to transfer his final salary pension. It also confirmed this would be a separate piece of work. And said that no second Scope of Work was issued 
or agreed to. Therefore Mr P hadnt engaged it to carry out that work.
Evelyn Partners also said that final salary pension transfer advice was highly regulated and 
could only be carried out by a properly authorised pension transfer specialist. It also said that 
it used a two-stage process for such advice: 
1. Assess whether, in general, a transfer of benefits is likely to be suitable. If in the 
Advisers view the transfer is likely to be suitable, they proceed to stage two.
2. Produce a transfer value analysis report which provides the detail required for the 
Adviser to determine whether the transfer is suitable.
It also said that as the process was so complex, it was unlikely that it wouldve been 
completed in time to meet the 8 March 2022 CETV deadline, even if the work had begun in 
January 2022. And that even if there had been time to complete the required work, there 
was no guarantee that it wouldve recommended the transfer.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service in March 2023. He 
said that when hed approached Evelyn Partners for advice, his primary aim was to find out if 
transferring his final salary pension to his personal pension would significantly increase his 
efforts to meet his retirement goals. But that from his initial contact in December 2021 up to 
September 2022, when he received the second advisers report, hed not received any 
advice or recommendation about whether or not pursuing a transfer would be a sensible 
option. 
Mr P said that the third adviser had apologised for the complete lack of advice and contact in 
relation to the transfer and that hed offered for Evelyn Partners to cover the cost of the new 
transfer value. And recalled a conversation with the third adviser in which hed agreed with 
Mr P that taking the initial CETV was a no brainer. 
To put things right, Mr P would like to be put in the position he wouldve been in if the advice 
he needed had been provided in January 2022.
Our investigator asked Evelyn Partners if it was prepared to consider a distress and 
inconvenience payment for Mr P under the circumstances. And if it would be prepared to 
refund the fee hed paid. 
Evelyn Partners said that the adviser who dealt with the initial query had told it that hed 
made it clear to Mr P that a final salary transfer wasnt likely to be in his best interests. And 
that the cashflow report wasnt the precursor to final salary transfer advice. But was 
designed to show that Mr P could achieve his target retirement income without the need to 
transfer. And was different to the sort of report used in final salary transfer advice as it didnt 
factor in the results of any transfer value analysis. 
But the adviser had accepted that no one had sat down with Mr P and run through the report 
with him to explain these things. And therefore Evelyn Partners said it was happy to refund 
the fee Mr P had paid and make a distress and inconvenience payment of £200. 
Our investigator asked Mr P if he was prepared to accept Evelyn Partners offer. Mr P said 
that the most frustrating part about the reduction to the CETV was that the third adviser had 
agreed it was an exceptional offer and that the recommendation wouldve been to transfer.
Our investigator asked Evelyn Partners if it could provide her with notes and call recordings 
between Mr P and the third adviser. It said that all the calls had been on mobile phones and so hadnt been recorded.
Evelyn Partners asked the third adviser what had happened. He told it that he hadnt told Mr 
P he would definitely recommend the transfer. He said Mr P had already felt it was a very 
compelling offer, based on an annual final salary scheme pension projection of around £11K 
having a CETV of around £350K. 
The third adviser said his role had been to present a cashflow report. And that any final 
salary transfer could then be considered after that. He also said that hed explained to Mr P 
that the task involved was extremely comprehensive and that there were defined stages to 
navigate. Given that, he felt it wouldnt have been possible to complete the full analysis of Mr 
Ps circumstances and execute a transfer - if applicable - in the time that was available, even 
if Mr Ps transfer had passed the initial triage stage. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Evelyn Partners 
should refund the £1,500 plus VAT fee Mr P had paid it. And that it should also pay Mr P 
£600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him. But she didnt 
consider that Evelyn Partners had caused Mr P a financial loss. She felt that it was unlikely 
that the full transfer process couldve completed by 8 March 2022. And she wasnt sure that 
the advice wouldve been to transfer in any event. 
Evelyn Partners accepted our investigators view. Mr P still felt that he was financially worse 
off due to the reduced CETV. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I will however make a slight change to the redress 
our investigator recommended, as I consider that interest should be added to the fee Mr P 
paid to compensate him for the loss of use of that money, as this is the usual process our 
service follows. But I agree with our investigator that it was unlikely that the full transfer 
process couldve completed by 8 March 2022, even if Evelyn Partners had focussed on the 
potential final salary transfer from the initial meeting. And that even if it had, it may not have 
recommended the transfer. I know this will be disappointing to Mr P. Ill explain the reasons 
for my decision.
I first considered what I think went wrong with the process. 
What went wrong?
Mr P clearly contacted an adviser hed used before because he was interested in 
investigating whether a final salary transfer would help him to meet his retirement goals. 
The adviser then suggested a meeting so that he could have an initial discussion with Mr P 
to allow him to understand the work involved. And sent Mr P a Scope of Work letter a few 
days later. 
This said that Evelyn Partners would first carry out the work required to produce a Lifetime 
Financial Plan for Mr P, based on his attitude to risk and capacity for loss, which it would 
present to him. This Plan would form the basis for any other work Evelyn Partners did for Mr 
P. The Scope of Work letter also stated that the starting point would be to leave the final salary 
pension untouched. But that Evelyn Partners would undertake analysis to help Mr P 
understand whether a transfer might be suitable for him if he wanted this. It said if this was 
the case, it would scope the final salary transfer assessment work separately.
Mr P told Evelyn Partners on 24 January 2022 that he was happy to go ahead on the basis 
outlined in the Scope of Work. And the next meeting was then held on 10 February 2022. I 
understand that at this meeting, the appropriate letters of authority for Mr Ps existing 
pensions wouldve been completed. At this point, there were less than four weeks left until 
the CETV expired. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Evelyn Partners ever told Mr P that it was extremely unlikely 
that it would be able to complete the Lifetime Financial Plan, present that to him so that he 
could decide whether or not he wanted to proceed with expensive final salary transfer work, 
and then produce a transfer value analysis report so that the adviser could determine 
whether the transfer was suitable in time to meet the CETV guarantee.
In my view, Mr P felt that the actions Evelyn Partners had outlined in the Scope of Work 
were part of the process for him to get the final salary transfer advice he needed, so that he 
could benefit from what he felt was a generous CETV. 
I am satisfied that the Scope of Work was clear in describing the work that would be carried 
out initially. But Im not satisfied that Evelyn Partners did enough to ensure that Mr P was 
aware that it was extremely unlikely that the work required for a final salary recommendation 
could be completed before the CETV guarantee expired. Ive also seen no evidence that it 
explained to Mr P that the CETV could significantly change once that guarantee expired.
Instead, Evelyn Partners passed Mr P from one adviser to another without moving things 
forward. It also doesnt seem to have explained Mr Ps initial needs to the third adviser, as 
Mr P said that adviser hadnt known what hed really wanted to achieve when hed first 
approached Evelyn Partners. This led to around eight months passing before any 
preparatory work for a potential final salary transfer was carried out. 
I think if Evelyn Partners had explained from the start how long each stage of the potential 
final salary transfer process would take, Mr P wouldve realised that he probably wouldnt be 
in a position to access the CETV hed been quoted given how much of the guarantee period 
he had left at that time. And he could then have made a decision about whether he wanted 
to continue to look into whether a final salary transfer would be likely to help him meet his 
retirement goals, or postpone that decision until he was closer to retirement. I consider if 
Evelyn Partners had made the timings clear, Mr P wouldnt have been so frustrated and 
disappointed with the pace of the advice he did receive.
Based on my findings, I agree with our investigator that Evelyn Partners should fully repay 
the fee it charged Mr P for the advice it provided. I say this because it wasnt the advice Mr P 
wanted. And because the advice he did want wasnt provided in a timely manner. As I noted 
above, I also consider that Evelyn Partners should pay annualised interest at 8% on the total 
fee it charged Mr P to compensate him for the loss of use of those funds.
I next considered whether the final salary transfer wouldve definitely been recommended. 
And if it couldve been processed in time to meet the CETV guarantee deadline.
Could the final salary pension have been transferred on or before 8 March 2022?
Earlier in this decision, I said that Id not seen any evidence that Evelyn Partners ever told 
Mr P that it was extremely unlikely that it could carry out all of the required work to determine whether the transfer was suitable before the CETV deadline. So its not surprising that Mr P 
was disappointed and frustrated when he found out, almost a year after his original enquiry, 
that he would need to obtain a new CETV. And that the new value was £120,000 lower than 
the original one. So I understand why Mr P feels that Evelyn Partners should compensate 
him for the loss he feels hes suffered. 
Evelyn Partners has confirmed that it never charged Mr P for any transfer advice. And Mr P 
has told us that he didnt question the Scope of Work, which effectively explained that the 
transfer advice would be secondary to the initial analysis. This was because he said he was 
relying on Evelyn Partners to advise him on whether or not it would be beneficial for him to 
carry out the final salary transfer. And then to advise him on how to achieve this, and to 
progress the transfer if that was its recommendation. 
However, I cant fairly say that Evelyn Partners wouldve definitely recommended the 
transfer. I acknowledge that Mr P feels that the third adviser told him it was a no brainer, 
but that adviser said he had a different recollection of events. 
The analysis of Mr Ps potential final salary transfer wouldve required a number of complex 
steps for a full assessment. These havent all been completed yet. So we cant say for 
certain whether or not Evelyn Partners wouldve recommended the transfer. 
I also consider that, given Mr P only provided Evelyn Partners with the letters of authority it 
needed to access his pension information on 10 February 2022, less than four weeks before 
the CETV guarantee expired, it wouldve been extremely unlikely for Evelyn Partners to have 
completed all of the required work to make a recommendation. 
As such, I cant reasonably say that Mr P should definitely have transferred his final salary 
pension. And therefore I cant fairly ask Evelyn Partners to compensate him for the change 
in the CETV value. 
I acknowledge that Mr P said he still doesnt know if he should transfer his final salary 
pension. But I can also see that he has yet to pay an adviser for the service he would require 
to get the full assessment of whether a transfer is in his best interests or not. So I cant fairly 
say that he should know the answer to this question at this point. 
I finally considered the distress and inconvenience Evelyn Partners has caused Mr P. 
Distress and Inconvenience
I agree with our investigator that the following things went wrong in the advice process:
Mr P was passed between advisers without his main reason for seeking the advice 
being properly considered. And without the expiry date of this CETV being fully 
considered. 
The second adviser didnt progress the initial process of producing the cashflow 
report in a timely manner. Nor did he contact Mr P to explain what was happening 
and what this might mean for his main aim. The only report he did produce was dated 
June 2022, but not presented to Mr P until September 2022, six months after the 
CETV had expired.
The third adviser did progress Mr Ps advice requirements to a degree. But still not in 
a particularly timely manner. The triage process of understanding if the final salary 
transfer was suitable for Mr P began in September 2022. But it was only on 7 
December 2022 that the third adviser told Mr P hed need an up-to-date CETV. Evelyn Partners were clearly very busy at the time Mr P needed advice. I say this 
because the third adviser told Mr P that the team looking into the suitability of his 
transfer seemed: a bit inundated. And Evelyn Partners has also shared an email 
with this service which said it was experiencing: disproportionate work levels at the 
time. And agreed with Mr P that he had the right to be annoyed about the service 
hed received. I think that Mr P couldve reasonably expected Evelyn Partners to 
have explained from the start how long each stage of the potential process was likely 
to take. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I consider that it has been a frustrating process for Mr P that 
has taken a lot of time and effort on his part, and hasnt really moved him forward in terms of 
his main objectives. Im not satisfied that Evelyn Partners tried to manage Mr Ps 
expectations. And in failing to do so it has left him feeling incredibly disappointed. Therefore I 
consider that Evelyn Partners should pay Mr P £600 for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused him.
Putting things right
Evelyn Partners Financial Services Limited must refund the £1,500 fee plus VAT Mr P has 
paid it and apply 8% interest from when Mr P paid the fee to the date of settlement. It must 
also pay Mr P £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Evelyn Partners Financial Services 
Limited deducts income tax from any interest it should tell Mr P how much has been taken 
off. Evelyn Partners Financial Services Limited should give Mr P a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold the complaint. Evelyn Partners Financial Services 
Limited must take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman