DRN-2575708
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by AXA. In July 2020 he noticed 
water was draining slowly from his bath. He made a claim on the insurance. The problem 
was identified as a leak from a flexible pipe under the bath which was repaired. 
After this AXA wrote to Mr S to say it was declining his claim. It explained that the problem 
had happened due to a damaged flexible hose, which is excluded under the policy.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said that the definition of a hose was a pipe that is open at 
one end. So he didnt think the pipe under his bath could reasonably be described as a 
flexible hose. He made a complaint, which AXA didnt uphold. So he brought his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she thought the pipe in 
question reasonably fitted the definition of a flexible hose in this context, so didnt think AXA 
had acted unfairly by declining the claim.
Mr S didnt agree, so his complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made its for the insured to prove there is an insured peril  an 
event that is covered under the policy. It is then for insurer to either accept the claim or prove 
than an exclusion applies.
In this case AXA has said that Mr S claim is excluded from cover because of the following 
exclusion:
For any claim caused by escape of water, no cover is provided for:
Water escaping from anything other than fixed indoor; pipes, boilers, water tanks or
toilets (i.e. these are covered);
Water escaping from flexible hoses or attachments to kitchen appliances, or the
appliances themselves (i.e. these arent covered);
It says the pipe that has been damaged is a flexible hose, and thats why the exclusion 
applies. Mr S has disagreed that the damaged pipe accurately meets this definition. So I 
need to decide if AXA has done enough to show the exclusion applies and has acted fairly 
by applying it here. 
The policy document doesnt give a definition of the term flexible hose. Where a policy 
doesnt define a term, we consider what a reasonable consumer would understand the 
definition to be. 
When considering this, it is important to consider the specific context, and not just definitions 
of individual words or phrases. In this case, I think the term flexible hose in the context of a 
bathroom setting, would reasonably be considered to be a piece of flexible piping connecting 
two fixed points. In order to reach this opinion I have looked at examples of flexible hoses 
advertised in hardware shops that sell items for bathroom plumbing. And its clear that items 
advertised as a flexible hose, meet this definition. So I think its reasonable to say this is how 
a reasonable consumer would understand the term. 
I have considered Mr S points about the definition of a hose as described in the dictionary. 
However looking at definitions of individual words, out of context, doesnt always lead to an 
accurate reflection of what a term means in practise. So I dont agree that this means AXA 
has acted unfairly.  
From looking at the pipe that was damaged in Mr S case, I can see it is a flexible tube that 
connects two fixed points. So Im, satisfied that it meets a reasonable definition of a flexible 
hose. 
For this reason Im satisfied that AXA has done enough to prove the exclusion applies and 
has acted fairly by applying it. So I wont require it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman