DRN-1573203
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was misled when he bought home improvements from a company, 
Z, which has since ceased trading. The materials and installation were financed by 
Shawbrook Bank Limited under arrangements with Z, and so Mr H says that Shawbrook is 
liable in the same way that Z would be. Mr H has been represented by a claims 
management business, H.  
What happened
In June 2014 Mr H entered into a contract with Z for the supply and installation of certain 
home improvements. The contract recorded that Mr H could pay cash or open a Lifestyle 
account which Z would arrange. Mr H also signed a portfolio agreement. That agreement 
recorded that, if Mr C agreed to Z taking pictures of its work for promotional purposes, 
displaying an advertising board and providing an appraisal of the work, he would receive a 
subsidy. 
Mr H agreed to the Lifestyle option and Z arranged a loan of £5,500 with Shawbrook. The 
loan agreement set out the cash price paid to Z, the amount borrowed, the number and level 
of monthly payments, the interest rate and APR and the total amount payable over the ten-
year term of the loan. Mr H signed it on 17 July 2014.  
In 2017 Z was prosecuted by Trading Standards and fined £80,000. The offences concerned 
quoting artificially high prices before reducing them to give the impression of a bargain and 
stating that products would only be available for a limited time  pressuring customers into 
buying them. Z has since ceased trading. 
In April 2019 H referred Mr Hs complaint to Shawbrook on his behalf. It said, in summary:
The offer of the discount had coerced Mr H into entering into the finance agreement. 
The sales contract gave Mr H 7 days to cancel, instead of the 14 days to which he was 
entitled. 
Z and Shawbrook had breached a number of Financial Conduct Authority principles.
No affordability assessment had been undertaken. 
The credit agreement was misrepresented to Mr H.
The discount for entering into the credit agreement was much less than the total charge 
for credit in the credit agreement.
Shawbrook should not have allowed Z to sell its finance products in the way it did. 
Shawbrook did not accept that it had acted unfairly, and so Mr Hs complaint was referred to 
this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She did not think that Shawbrook 
had acted unfairly. H asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In keeping with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service, I have 
summarised Hs submissions here, but I have considered all that has been said very 
carefully before reaching my conclusions.
Mr Hs complaint here is largely about the acts and omissions of Z. Shawbrook is however to 
some extent liable for Zs actions. First, in arranging the finance, it was acting as (or, under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974, was to be treated as acting as) Zs agent. Second, because 
the sale agreement was financed under arrangements between Z and Shawbrook, if Mr H 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against Z, he has a like claim against 
Shawbrook. 
Hs submissions about Zs actions refer at some length to the proceedings brought by 
Trading Standards in 2017. Those submissions say that the practices referred to in those 
proceedings were inherent in the sales process and that Mr H was similarly coerced into 
entering into the sales contract. 
I accept that its possible that some or all of the failings described in the court proceedings 
were present when Mr H entered into the contract with Z, but I note that there is nothing 
specific in the evidence about what actually happened. In the circumstances, I dont believe I 
can fairly conclude that Mr H was misled. Even if I took a different view on that issue, 
however, that does not amount to a breach of contract. Theres no suggestion that Mr H did 
not receive what he paid for or that there was anything wrong with the products and services 
that were supplied.
Shawbrook is liable as well if Mr H has a claim for misrepresentation against Z. A 
misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact made by one party to a contract and on 
which the other party reasonably relies in deciding to enter into that contract. As Ive 
indicated, there is nothing specific here about Mr Hs experience, other than the contractual 
documents. He hasnt said what, if anything, he was told that wasnt true. Nor has he said 
what he would have differently if he had been told something different about the deal.  
But in any event  and as H says in its submissions  the paperwork set out the difference 
between paying cash and taking out finance. The incentive being offered was genuine and 
clear.
H says that the agreement with Z gave Mr H only a 7-day cooling-off period, instead of 14 
days. Generally, however, a fair remedy for providing an insufficient cancellation period is 
generally to treat the contract as if it included the correct period. In any event, theres no 
suggestion that Mr H sought to cancel the contract within either timeframe. 
H has referred to a number of regulatory provisions which it says Z and/or Shawbrook have 
breached. Again, however, theres no evidence of how any such breaches have affected Mr 
H. For example, H says Shawbrook should have given Mr H sufficient time to consider the 
pre-contract information; it hasnt said however how long Mr H did have, what he might have 
done differently if hed been given longer, or why he waited nearly five years before 
suggesting this was a problem. 
H submits that the statement that a customer who chooses not to take up the lifestyle option 
will have to pay the full balance due is proof that Z was using unfair practices. Im afraid I 
dont agree; it simply sets out the terms on which the discount was offered.
H says too that Shawbrook did not carry out an assessment of affordability. Shawbrook says 
it did. I note though that Mr H has made payments on time and at no point before bringing this complaint suggested he was having difficulty. Even if there was no assessment, again 
its not clear what impact that had on Mr H. 
H also says that Z should have disclosed to Mr H any commission it would receive from 
Shawbrook. It is not, however, always a requirement that that be done. Its necessary where 
the commission might affect the impartiality of the credit broker or the borrowers decision to 
take out the loan. Since Z only offered loans from Shawbrook, the first did not apply; nor has 
H explained how disclosure of commission might have affected Mr Hs decision. 
H says that the interest rate was misleading, because the loan agreement quoted an APR of 
20.3%. The total charge for credit, however, was more than twice the amount borrowed  or 
121% of that sum. Interest rates are generally quoted as an annual rate, and the APR and 
total charge for credit are required to be included in the credit agreement under The 
Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 2010; the credit agreement appeared to comply 
with those regulations. In the circumstances, the suggestion that Shawbrook misrepresented 
the interest payable or the total interest payable over the term of the loan is, to say the least, 
surprising.   
In my view, the documents here are clear. They set out what Mr H would have to pay and 
the conditions he needed to meet to qualify for the reduction in price that he obtained. 
I should comment finally on the issue of the warranty. Mr Hs contract with Z included a ten-
year warranty. H says that there is a breach of contract because Z is no longer trading and 
so would not be able to meet a claim under the warranty. There may be some merit in that 
argument. However, since he has not sought to make a claim under the warranty, Mr H has 
suffered no loss. Its possible he will seek to claim in the future, but again its not clear that 
any loss will result. I note the following:
Many warranties of this nature are insurance-backed, so this one may still be beneficial 
to Mr H. 
If Mr H needed to make a claim under the warranty, he may be able to bring a claim 
against Shawbrook under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Because I have not made a finding in Mr Hs favour, I do not need to consider remedies. I 
note however that H has said in bringing this complaint that Mr H should be able to rescind 
the sale contract and have a refund of all the money paid under the loan agreement. That 
would of course put him in the position of having home improvements carried out at no cost 
to himself, but funded by Shawbrook. 
My final decision 
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Shawbrook Bank Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman