DRN-3167644
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly 
declined their claim. All references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought an annual multi trip travel insurance policy in January 2020, 
underwritten by Great Lakes. This was to cover a holiday to Malaysia starting on 11 March 
2020 with a return date of 26 March 2020. The trip started as planned but on 17 March 2020, 
the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), previously known as the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), advised against all but essential travel due to 
Covid-19. And declared a lockdown in Malaysia. 
Mr and Mrs M returned on 18 March 2020 and made a claim to Great Lakes for the 
additional costs of their return flights, which was declined. Great Lakes said the policy didnt 
provide cover for cutting short a trip due to FCDO advice.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Great Lakes and unhappy with its response, referred their 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found Great Lakes hadnt acted fairly. But 
Great Lakes disagreed. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2021. Ill repeat my provisional findings here:
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a 
summary of certain information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. 
This includes excluded risks. 
The IPID which Great Lakes has provided, on page 2, says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential 
travel. For further details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy under section 2 Cutting short your 
trip & trip interruption on pages 15 and 16 say:
Cover applies if you are forced to cut short a trip you have commenced and 
return to your home country, because of one of the following, which are beyond 
your control, and of which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip or 
purchased the cover (if later):
a) Cutting short your trip 
What is covered:
We will pay up to £500 for basic cover (unless you have purchased the optional 
£1,000/£3,000 add on) or £5,000 for comprehensive cover (up to £15,000 may be 
available, please see the table of benefits for details for your non-refundable 
deposits and amounts you have paid (or you have contracted to pay), for your 
travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions up to £300 for basic 
cover and £350 for comprehensive cover) which you do not use because of your 
inability to complete the trip due to:
a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling 
companion or any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the 
trip. 
b) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury 
service or being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a 
professional, or advisory capacity).
c) accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home occurring 
during your trip, when the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or 
your presence is required by the police in connection with such events.
Mr and Mrs Ms trip wasnt cut short for any of the above reasons. This means their 
claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy.
Under what is not covered under the above section, the policy says:
2. disinclination to travel, or continue travelling, unless your change of travel 
plans is caused by one of the circumstances listed under what is covered.
16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country or delay or 
amendment of the booked trip due to Government action.
 18. anything mentioned in the General Exclusions.
Ive looked at the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy but I dont 
think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found 
themselves in.
Ive considered what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of the 
case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law. 
The terms and conditions of the policy list the general exclusions applicable to all 
sections on pages 39  41. They say:
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of24. Your travel to a 
country or specific area or event to which the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar governing body 
have advised against all, or all but essential travel.There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an 
exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
I think the limitations of FCDO cover were clearly and transparently highlighted to Mr 
and Mrs M in the key facts document which says:
 FCO & WHO directive: You are not covered to cancel or cut short your trip 
as a result of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health 
Organisation (WHO) or other regulatory authority issuing a directive against 
all but essential travel to/from your travel destination for reasons other than 
earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane, unless you have the Optional Travel 
Disruption cover added to your travel policy.
Mr and Mrs M didnt have the Optional Travel Disruption cover added to their policy. 
And in addition, the curtailment section also sets out the specific exclusions relating 
to:
 16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country or delay or 
amendment of the booked trip due to Government action and
 18. anything mentioned in the General Exclusions.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I dont think their claim is covered under the 
terms and conditions of their policy and I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept their claim.
Both sides have responded to my provisional decision, which I adopt as my final decision. Mr 
and Mrs M have made some further comments. Ill address those which I consider to be key 
to my decision here.
Mr and Mrs M say the policy was called comprehensive which they say was misleading as 
they thought they had full cover. But there were numerous optional extras to pay for which 
they feel should have been fully explained. They also tried to cancel the policy but werent 
happy with what was offered.
Both of the above points raised by Mr and Mrs M relate to the sale of the policy and the 
subsequent cancellation of the policy. These are separate complaints which havent yet 
been investigated and so dont form part of my decision. Mr and Mrs M can make new 
complaints and ask us to consider them if they remain unresolved.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman