DRN-1601605
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR), and 
their decision to submit claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) without her 
consent. So, Mrs C thinks that they have unfairly invoiced her for their success fees.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs C visited FTRs website and authorised them to complete what she 
believed to be a free PPI check. FTR completed this check and found that Mrs C had PPI 
present on several of her accounts.
FTR then wrote to Mrs C, asking her to complete new letters of authority (LOA) and payment 
protection insurance questionnaires (PPIQ). Mrs C says she received these requests but 
didnt complete and return them as she didnt want FTR to submit the claims now the free 
check had been completed.
FTR submitted the claims using LOAs Mrs C signed in April. Several of the claims FTR 
submitted have been successful and theyve invoiced Mrs C for their success fee, in line with 
their terms and conditions. Mrs C paid some of these under duress and some remain 
outstanding.
Mrs C complained to FTR as she thought theyd submitted the claims without her authority. 
She said she only instructed them to complete a free PPI check and purposely didnt return 
the documents they asked for. So, she didnt think the fees FTR had invoiced were 
reasonable. Mrs C wanted the fees she had paid refunded and the outstanding fees waived.
FTR didnt agree. They thought theyd acted in line with their terms and conditions by 
submitting the complaint as Mrs C hadnt contacted them to cancel the agreement. So, they 
thought theyd acted fairly when asking Mrs C to pay their fees. Mrs C wasnt happy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He thought that Mrs C had given 
FTR authority to complete a free PPI check. But, crucially, he thought this is all Mrs C had 
given FTR to do. He thought FTRs website didnt make it reasonably clear that they would 
be able to submit claims on Mrs Cs behalf if PPI was identified. So, he thought that by not 
returning a new LOA or filling in the needed PPIQ, Mrs C was ending the agreement at that 
stage. 
Because of this, he thought FTR should refund the fees Mrs C had already paid and waive 
any fees were outstanding. He also thought FTR should pay Mrs £50 to recognise the upset 
receiving the invoices wouldve caused. FTR didnt agree so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs C instructed FTR to complete a free PPI check. And Ive seen FTR 
did this on Mrs Cs behalf. What Ive focused my decision on is whether FTR acted fairly and 
reasonably by submitting claims on Mrs Cs behalf after the PPI had been identified in the 
check. And in this instance, I dont think they have.
FTR have said they acted in line with the terms and conditions Mrs C agreed when 
submitting the claims after the free PPI check. The terms and conditions say, Once PPI is 
identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and you authorise FTR to continue to provide 
you with the claims services. So, I agree that FTR have acted within the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. But I also need to decide whether this meant FTR have acted 
fairly and reasonably to Mrs C.
Ive seen screenshots of the website pages Mrs C wouldve seen when she signed up for the 
free PPI check. I think these pages create the impression that any forms Mrs C signed would 
be to authorise a free PPI check only. Crucially, on the final page where Mrs C wouldve 
ticked to agree to the terms and conditions it states There is no charge for the PPI Check 
service. (If PPI is discovered we can assist you for a fee of 24% including VAT or you can 
choose to claim it back yourself). I think this statement creates the impression that Mrs C 
would have a choice of whether to continue, not that the service would continue 
automatically. So, I think this contradicts the terms and conditions and I think wouldve been 
misleading for Mrs C.
FTR also sent Mrs C several emails and texts after PPI had been identified, asking her to 
provide a new LOA and complete a PPIQ before they could continue her claims. A number 
of the emails FTR sent state your refund is currently on hold pending the return of your 
Letter of Authority before explaining that they may not be able to proceed with your PPI 
refund until you have returned it.
The texts Mrs C received asking her to complete a PPIQ state Important: You are unable to 
claim a PPI refund until the questionnaire is complete. She also received texts that 
explained Just a reminder to let you know your refund is currently on hold pending the 
return of your Letter of Authority.
I think the emails and texts Mrs C received created the impression that if she didnt return a 
new LOA or complete the PPIQ, FTR would complete no further work on her behalf. So, 
when Mrs C didnt provide either, I think this was her choosing to end her involvement with 
FTR at this point. And I think she was reasonable to think this.
Although Ive considered FTRs argument that Mrs C didnt contact them to cancel the 
agreement and let them know she didnt want to continue, I think the correspondence 
theyve sent has led Mrs C to assume she didnt need to do this. 
Because of this, I think FTR have acted unfairly by submitting claims on Mrs Cs behalf.  I 
also think that by continuing to send emails and texts explaining that her claims were on hold 
or couldnt be progressed, this misled Mrs C into believing shed ended the agreement and 
cancelled the agreement. I think, on the balance of probability, its likely Mrs C wouldve 
contacted FTR to end the agreement if she shed been made aware they were going to 
submit the claims anyway.
For the reasons outlined, I dont think FTR have acted fairly by submitting claims on Mrs Cs 
behalf. Because of this, I dont think theyve acted reasonably when invoicing her for their success fee. I understand FTR will be unhappy with this decision as theyve completed the 
work needed to secure a PPI refund. But, ultimately, I think theyve completed this work 
without Mrs Cs agreement.
Putting things right
As I think FTR have acted unfairly by submitting the claims, Ive had to consider the actions 
FTR need to complete to recognise this.
Ive seen Mrs C has paid several of the invoices FTR sent, under duress. I dont think the 
fees included in these invoices were fair. So, I think FTR should refund these amounts plus 
8% simple interest calculated from the date they were paid to the date of the refund. They 
should also waive any fees that remain outstanding.
I also think Mrs C wouldve been confused when she received an invoice from FTR asking 
her for a success fee. I think this wouldve caused her some trouble and upset, especially as 
FTR continued to issue further invoices after Mrs C had already raised her concerns about 
the fact theyd continued to work on her behalf. The investigator suggested FTR pay Mrs C 
£50 to recognise the upset these invoices caused and I think this is a fair offer. So, I think 
this payment should also be made. 
FTR should also cancel any outstanding claims that havent received a response to prevent 
any further invoices being sent to Mrs C in the future.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Quickly Finance Limited 
and direct them to take the following actions:
Refund all fees Mrs C has paid plus 8% simple interest calculated from the date they 
were paid to the date of the refund
Waive any outstanding fees
Cancel any remaining claims yet to receive an offer
Pay Mrs C £50 to recognise the upset caused by the invoices she received
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman