DRN-3657514
The complaint
Mr T complains about the premium Scottish Widows Limited charged for a life cover policy.
What happened
In summary Ms B and Mr T applied for life cover in 2021. Mr T disclosed in that he had 
suffered from work related stress during the application. Scottish Widows then requested 
information from Mr Ts GP which led to a premium increase.
Mr T felt this was unfair as he was now retired and so wouldnt suffer with the work related 
condition. Scottish Widows didnt change its mind so Ms B and Mr T referred their complaint 
here.
Our investigator didnt find that Scottish Widows had done anything wrong. Mr T appealed. 
He said that he had disclosed the condition on the application form.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below. I should say if theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I find is the right 
outcome. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think is the key 
issue here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
The reasons for my decision are as follows:
Scottish Widows reviewed the application submitted in the light of medical evidence 
and an underwriting decision was made rating Mr T +50%.  This in turn increased the 
premium. For completeness I would add that there is nothing to suggest that Mr T 
failed to take care when answering the questions on the application form. But I dont 
find that it was unfair for Scottish Widows to do what it did  it is entitled to underwrite 
the policies it provides and charge an appropriate premium.
I do appreciate Mr T was disappointed when the premium originally quoted was 
revised. However, amongst other things the quote did say, under Important Notes: 
 This quote doesnt mean you have been accepted for cover.
 It assumes that if you apply you are accepted on normal terms.
Mr T wasnt accepted on normal terms  this was an underwriting decision that 
Scottish Widows was entitled to make.
I understand that Mr T feels Scottish Widows has discriminated against him because 
he had previously had a mental health condition which necessitated time off work. As 
our investigator explained this service it is not for this service to determine whether 
there has been a breach of the Equality Act  but the Act is something that we will 
take into account in determining whether a financial business has acted fairly. 
There are occasions when it is lawful for an insurer to treat a customer differently if 
there is a greater insurance risk because of their disability. Scottish Widows has 
shown by peer reviewed evidence that the risk is increased by virtue of mental health 
conditions. I note from the underwriting evidence that the rating applied to Mr T is 
that which would be applied to others with his condition. In the circumstances and 
although I recognise that Mr T will be disappointed by my decision, Im not persuaded 
that Scottish Widows has treated Ms B and Mr T unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman