DRN-3462285
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined her travel insurance claim. 
Any reference to Aviva includes all its agents. 
What happened
Ms L has a travel insurance policy as part of a packaged bank account. The policy is 
underwritten by Aviva. 
Ms L travelled to her destination country (which I will call G) on 1 March 2020 and was due 
to return to the UK on 17 March 2020. On this same day, Ms L said she wasnt feeling well 
so she went to see a doctor. The doctor contra-indicated Ms L to continue her trip and to 
confine, initially, until 3 April 2020 and then until the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions had 
lifted. 
Ms L contacted Aviva to seek advice and to explain shed been advised by a doctor not to 
travel back to the UK due to an ongoing chronic condition. She wanted authorisation from 
Aviva on whether to travel back to the UK or not and whether she would be covered if she 
made a claim. Ms L says it took Aviva longer to get back to her with a decision and by this 
time, she had followed the doctors advice and G had gone into lockdown with a ban to 
travel out of there. Ms L returned to the UK on 29 May 2020 as that was the earliest date 
that she could get a flight back.
Aviva assessed her claim Aviva got the medical report translated and it was reviewed by one 
of its doctors on 21 March 2020. They said the information Ms L provided showed no 
evidence of any immunosuppressant drugs she was taking and that Ms L had the same risk 
of infection as any other passenger so there was no reason why she could not have returned 
to the UK on 17 March 2020 as she had originally intended. 
It asked Ms L if she had any further information to support her claim. She provided a letter 
from the doctor she went to in G. This letter was reviewed by Avivas medical team who 
confirmed that the information didnt show that Ms L was on immunosuppressants and 
therefore there was no reason why she could not have returned to the UK as had initially 
been planned. It also said Ms L wasnt experiencing any symptoms which would have 
prevented her from flying back to the UK as intended. 
Ms L made a complaint to Aviva. She said she should be covered under the pandemic 
section of the policy terms and conditions up to the policy limit of £7,500. But Aviva said as 
Ms L was requesting to stay in the country and not return to the UK, she didnt have cover on 
her policy as she had extended her stay. She hadnt cancelled her trip or cut it short. Aviva 
said there was no cover under any sections of Ms Ls policy that would provide cover for 
what happened. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Ms L brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt uphold it. She thought based on the policy terms and conditions and 
evidence provided, she didnt think Aviva had declined the claim unfairly. She said this 
because based on the information provided by both parties, there was no evidence that it 
was medically necessary for Ms L to have remained in G and extended her trip. Also, in 
regard to the point Ms L raised about Aviva not responding quickly enough, our investigator 
said she didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably. The medical report had to be translated 
and then assessed. Given that Ms L had visited on the day she was due to return; she hadnt 
provided Aviva sufficient time to get back to her. 
Ms L disagreed with the investigators findings. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to make a final decision. 
Ms L provided a further letter from her GP as evidence that it was medically necessary to 
remain in G until she was able to return back to the UK in May 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
I appreciate Ms L feels strongly about the claim. I can see shes taken the time to provide 
comprehensive information to us.  So, Id like to reassure her that Ive carefully read and 
reviewed all her submissions and everything shes provided.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at Ms Ls policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis of her 
travel insurance contract with Aviva.
Page 27 on the policy document under the section Emergency medical and associated 
expenses, it states:
If you are injured, fall ill, are quarantined or die during your trip, we will cover you 
up to the limits shown below, for:

Associated expenses
(a) extra charges for half board accommodation (of a similar standard to the 
accommodation you had booked for your trip) if it is medically necessary for you to 
stay after the date you were going to return home or travel to your next destination;

Based on the above section of the policy, there is cover available for what happened to Ms L 
in her circumstances. 
But Ive also looked at page 29 and 30 which set out whats not covered under the policy. 
This says:What is not covered
a) Anything mentioned in the General Exclusions and Health Exclusions in the Your 
Health section.
b) .. 
a) Costs incurred following your decision not to move hospital or return to your home 
territory after the date when it was deemed safe for you to do so by our Medical 
Emergency Assistance provider and your treating doctor.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Ms L provided evidence from the doctor in G which he contra-indicated for her to continue 
her trip and to stay in confinement. She therefore acted on his advice which meant that she 
didnt return to the UK as was her original intention. The letter was provided to Aviva in 
French and this had to be translated. Further evidence has been provided by Ms Ls GP 
also. Essentially, these say the medication she was taking lowers the immune system and 
travelling on the plane may have put her at higher risk of getting Covid-19. 
Aviva has provided evidence both from its medical team and the Chief Medical Officer 
(CMO). This says that while Ms L was advised not to travel because of the condition she 
suffers from and the medication shes taking, upon reviewing this information, theres nothing 
to suggest Ms L could not have travelled on the day and returned to the UK. Aviva say the 
medication Ms L was taking was not an immunosuppressant and government guidance at 
the time and since, did not place patients with this type of thyroid illness, or taking the 
medication into any of the vulnerable or risk groups for shielding. 
It's important to note here that Im not medically trained. My role is to decide whether Aviva 
has treated Ms L fairly and reasonably and when assessing her claim against her policy 
terms and conditions. 
Ive reviewed all of the information provided by both parties and I dont think Aviva has 
treated her unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why. 
While the terms and conditions allow for cover for what happened to Ms L, based on 
the information provided by Avivas medical team and CMO, the thyroid condition that 
Ms L suffers from wasnt categorised to be in one of the vulnerable groups that were 
at risk of Covid-19 in 2020. 
The CMO has confirmed the medication Ms L was taking wasnt an 
immunosuppressant or an immunomodulatory drug. Based on this information the 
section providing cover for Emergency medical and associated expenses doesnt 
apply as there was no medical reason for her to have extended her trip. I cant see 
that there are any other sections of the policy that apply in the circumstances either. 
Ms L says she wasnt feeling well on 17 March 2020 (the day she was due to the 
return to the UK) and therefore went to see a doctor in G who confirmed given the 
Covid-19 pandemic and the global announcements at the time, Ms L should stay in 
confinement. While I understand the reasons why Ms L might not have wanted to fly 
or why the doctor said she shouldnt fly, that doesnt mean that Aviva is now 
responsible to pay for the claim. Its medical team assessed the claim and said there 
was nothing in the medication Ms L was taking or in the type of illness she had that 
would have prevented her from returning to the UK as planned. The doctor in G didnt specifically mention that there was a risk of lowered immunity. 
Theres no mention on the report of the actual medications Ms L was taking and no 
specific mention of an immunosuppressant she was taking when she visited him. 
There was no diagnosis confirmed or any other tests taken to ascertain whether she 
was at high risk of catching Covid-19 and therefore shouldnt return to the UK. 
Ms Ls GP said the medication can cause bone marrow suppression which isnt the 
same as lowering the immune system and it wouldnt have put Ms L in a greater risk 
category of getting Covid-19. 
Both doctors said travel was contra-indicated but didnt say Ms L was unfit to fly.
Ive also reviewed the information thats available on the British Thyroid Foundation 
website in regard to the risks associated with getting Covid-19 for those on the same 
medication as Ms L. This says antithyroid drugs (carbimazole .) used to treat an 
overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism) do not suppress your immune system. This 
information was put on their website in response to Covid-19 enquiries they received 
from thyroid patients in March 2020. 
Based on all of this information, while I understand the reasons for Ms L not wanting 
to travel and the reasons why the doctor in G said she shouldnt travel, theres 
nothing in that information which prevented her medically from travelling back to the 
UK on 17 March 2020.
Ms L and her GP have argued that the medication she was taking was linked to 
potential bone marrow suppression. Ive thought about this but thats not the same as 
taking an immunosuppressant. Avivas CMO and The British Thyroid Foundation 
have confirmed that the medication Cabimazole (which Ms L was taking) is not an 
immunosuppressant. Additionally, the UK government guidance at the time and 
since, did not place patients with this type of thyroid illness, or taking the medication, 
into any of the vulnerable or risk groups for shielding.
Claim-handling
Ive also considered Ms Ls comments that had Aviva handled her enquiry better and 
provided a response to her quicker, she may not have been in the position shes in, having 
to make a claim. 
I understand and have reviewed what happened. However, I cant see that Aviva did 
anything outside of what would have been expected. It was unrealistic for Aviva to have 
turned around an answer for Ms L on the same day or before she was due to fly back to the 
UK. I can see Aviva responded to Ms L as would be expected. Ms L had sent Aviva a report 
from the doctor which needed to be translated. While I appreciate Ms L wanted an answer 
from Aviva immediately, this unfortunately wasnt possible. The report was nevertheless 
translated and reviewed by the medical team on 18 March 2020 and further information was 
required from Ms L which was communicated to her on 18 March 2020. 
Ms L provided this information on 20 March 2020 to Aviva and this had to, again, be 
translated. Following this, the medical team reviewed the information on 21 March 2020 and 
the outcome of the claim was communicated to her on 26 March 2020. 
I appreciate it took a few days for Ms L to receive the outcome of the claim and I can see 
there was some miscommunication at this point, and so she raised a complaint to Aviva. But 
overall, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in the way it handled Ms Ls requested authorisation. The timescales are not unusual for such an enquiry and while Ms L would 
have liked a response on the same day, I dont think this is pragmatic and not something that 
I think Aviva is responsible for.
As Ive stated above, I understand the reasons for Ms L not returning to the UK as planned 
but the evidence shes provided doesnt suggest that she should not have returned. 
Therefore, the fact that Ms L extended her trip isnt something that Aviva would be 
responsible for. There is no cover under her policy terms and conditions for what happened, 
and this isnt a listed event under the policy. 
Conclusion
Overall, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Aviva hasnt declined Ms Ls claim 
unfairly or unreasonably. Im also satisfied that Aviva handled the claim in line with what was 
expected. I cant see that it caused avoidable delays in providing an outcome to Ms L. It 
follows that I dont require Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman