DRN-3216465
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the maturity of a mortgage endowment policy he arranged 
alongside a mortgage with (now) NRAM Limited. He is unhappy that despite both he and the 
endowment provider contacting NRAM on numerous occasions from May 2020, the 
necessary confirmation that NRAM no longer had an interest in the policy wasnt provided 
until December 2020. Due to this, he was unable to access the maturity proceeds of the 
policy until December 2020. 
 What happened
Mr H took out a mortgage endowment policy in 1995 to protect and repay a mortgage he 
arranged with a lender. The maturity date of the policy was 30 June 2020. The policy was 
assigned to the lender, which meant that unless the lender informed the product provider 
that it no longer had an interest in the policy, the maturity proceeds couldnt be released to 
Mr H. As the mortgages held by Mr Hs original lender were transferred to NRAM the 
assignment was also transferred to it.
A month before the maturity date the product provider wrote to NRAM informing it that the 
policy was due to mature and the options available at that point. Mr H was sent a copy of 
letter on the same day.
The endowment policy matured on 30 June 2020 for £37,655.25.
Mr H has told us that he contacted NRAM numerous times by telephone about this matter. 
That he discussed the situation and the NRAM promised to provide the product provider with 
a letter of no further interest each time, but that this didnt happen. 
In October 2020 Mr H contacted us with his concerns about NRAMs behaviour. We 
contacted NRAM and informed it of Mr Hs complaint. 
NRAM responded to Mr Hs complaint, but it didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it issued 
a letter of no further interest to the product provider on 27 July 2020, not long after Mr H first 
contacted it. As such it said that it couldnt be held responsible for the product provider not 
releasing the funds to Mr H.
Mr H informed us that he still wanted us to consider the complaint. He said that given the 
product provider had written to NRAM at the end of May 2020, if it sent a letter of no further 
interest on 27 July 2020, that wasnt an acceptable timescale. In addition, he questioned 
whether a letter was sent on 27 July 2020.
NRAM sent a copy of the letter of no further interest to Mr H in December 2020. The copy 
letter was dated 15 December 2020, as NRAMs system automatically updates the date on 
letters each time they are accessed. Mr H forwarded this letter to the product provider and 
the maturity value was paid on 28 January 2021.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators conclusions.  He detailed the contact he and the product 
provider had with NRAM and repeated that he didnt believe a letter was sent in July 2020. 
As such, he considered NRAM was responsible for a seven-month delay in him receiving his 
money. Mr H asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review.
I reviewed the information on the case and requested that NRAM provide evidence from its 
systems that the letter of no further interest was first sent on 27 July 2020. NRAM confirmed 
that it couldnt do so.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
This case revolves on when NRAM sent the product provider a letter of no further interest in 
the endowment policy. It has said that this was 27 July 2020, following Mr H contacting it and 
chasing a response to the product providers letter of 30 May 2020. 
However, the copies of the letter NRAM has provided Mr H and this service were dated 
15 December 2020 and 31 March 2021 respectively. It has also confirmed that it is unable to 
provide any evidence that the letter was sent in July, other than an email from a member of 
staff saying that was the case. It has been unable to provide any system data showing the 
letter being dispatched, which I would expect it to be able to do. It is also clear that the 
product provider didnt receive any such letter, until Mr H provided a copy after he had been 
sent one in December 2020.
I also note that when Mr H continued to contact NRAM about the lack of such a letter, he 
wasnt told that it had already been sent. Nor does it appear that a copy was sent to either 
him or the product provider when NRAM was made aware that the letter hadnt been 
received. 
In cases such as this, I must decide on the balance of probabilities what happened. I am not 
persuaded the evidence shows that NRAM first sent the product provider a letter of no 
further interest when it said it did. The earliest evidence I have seen of such a letter existing 
is December 2020. As such, I can only find that NRAM is responsible for Mr H being 
deprived of the maturity proceeds from the policy.
Putting things right
As NRAM would have received the maturity pack for the endowment policy almost a month 
before the maturity date, I consider it could have provided the product provider with the 
necessary notification of no further interest before the maturity. As such, I consider NRAM 
should pay Mr H interest* at 8% simple per annum on the maturity value from the date of 
maturity to the date the maturity value was paid.
*If NRAM considers it is required by HMRC to deduct income tax from any interest paid, it 
should provide Mr H with evidence of the deduction, which he can use for HMRC purposes if 
required.
Both parties confirmed receiving my provisional decision. NRAM didnt accept my 
conclusions and provided a copy of its letter of no further interest dated the day it had said it 
was sent to the product provider. It didnt, however, provide any supporting evidence that the 
letter was produced and sent at that time. 
NRAM was again asked to provide evidence of the document production and it was asked to 
do so by the provisional response date, in light of that information having previously been requested. NRAM didnt provide any further evidence by the response date nor did it ask for 
additional time to provide the evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I issued my provisional decision, I explained that I was not satisfied that NRAM sent 
the letter of no further interest when it said it did. It has now provided another copy of the 
letter, dated July 2020, when it said it had sent it. So, we now have three copies of the letter, 
all with different dates. The provision of the new version of this document hasnt allayed my 
concerns about the date it was sent and NRAM has not provided supporting evidence that 
shows it was produced and sent in July 2020, despite having been asked to do so. 
In light of this, I have not been persuaded to change my conclusions that the evidence 
doesnt support NRAM confirming that it had no further interest in the policy until 
December 2020. As such, I remain satisfied that the redress detailed in the putting things 
right section of my provisional decision (detailed above) remains the appropriate redress in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require NRAM Limited to pay Mr H redress 
calculated as detailed above in Putting things right contained in the excerpt from my 
provisional decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman