DRN-3986175
The complaint
Ms R complains about problems shes had accessing the pension she holds with ReAssure 
Limited.
What happened
Ms R holds a pension with ReAssure. Ms R has told us shes been living abroad since 
May 2020 following her mother passing away. In March 2021 she contacted ReAssure to 
access the tax-free cash (TFC) part of her pension fund.
ReAssure wrote to Ms R on 18 March 2021 confirming that shed have to send certain 
documents to amend her address as she was living abroad. Reassure said these documents 
would need to be verified by an attorney.
Ms R says they were sent in June 2021 by email. But she was then told ReAssure wouldnt 
accept these documents by email. Ms R says the attorney then sent the documents using a 
tracked service from the country she lived in which would be delivered by Royal Mail.
However, Ms R was told that Royal Mail hadnt been able to deliver the documents to 
ReAssure. She said she was told by Royal Mail that the documents were awaiting collection 
by ReAssure.
Ms R complained to ReAssure in June 2021. She was unhappy about the delays in her 
address being changed as she wanted to open a Retirement Account (RA) which was 
necessary for her to access the TFC.
ReAssure later told Ms R that she wasnt eligible for the RA as she was living abroad at this 
time. Ms R said she held dual residency, so ReAssure told Ms R to send in proof of this.
ReAssure responded to Ms Rs complaint on 22 June 2021. In its brief response, it said it 
had caused delays and would provide feedback to the relevant departments. But it didnt 
provide any further clarification on how Ms R could access her pension.
Ms R continued corresponding with ReAssure by email and phone but was still unable to 
open the RA or access her TFC. So, she referred her complaint to us in September 2021. 
She said shed now been told by ReAssure that it had been in possession of her documents 
since 15 July 2021.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He asked ReAssure for further 
information but ReAssure didnt respond. So, he issued his opinion on the complaint. He 
said, in summary, that the service from ReAssure to Ms R had been poor. He thought 
ReAssure should either open an RA for Ms R, or explain why it was unable to do so. He 
thought ReAssure should pay Ms R £500 for the distress and inconvenience the matter had 
caused. Lastly, our Investigator said that ReAssure should reimburse Ms R any costs shed 
incurred as a result of its errors, though he didnt specify what these were.
Ms R accepted this if it resolved the issues shed been having with ReAssure. However, 
ReAssure didnt accept the opinion. It said it hadnt received the documents that it needed 
from Ms R so it didnt agree that compensation was warranted. It said it would arrange for its 
servicing team to contact Ms R via email to set out the documents required to enable Ms R 
to access her pension funds.
Our Investigator asked ReAssure for further information, but again, ReAssure failed to 
respond. So, the complaint was referred for consideration by an Ombudsman. Ms R 
continued to correspond with our Investigator and ReAssure during this time. She 
maintained that shed been told by ReAssure that her documents had been received in 
July 2021.
The information request was escalated by our Service and, although ReAssure still didnt 
provide the information that had been requested, it did agree with our Investigators view to 
pay £500 compensation. But ReAssure didnt respond on the point of putting right any 
financial loss Ms R had incurred.
In December 2022, Ms R told us that ReAssure had been in touch with her to say she 
needed to apply again for the RA but they would provide this information to her by email. 
Ms R says this document took a further month to receive. To date Ms R still hasnt received 
her TFC and the RA has not been set up. 
The complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued a provisional decision on 
6 February 2023. In summary, I said I thought ReAssure ought to have asked Ms R to send 
the documents it needed to proceed with her RA application by email given the impact of the 
pandemic and where Ms R was residing. Nevertheless, I thought Ms R had promptly sent 
her documents by post in June 2021 when requested and on balance, I believed ReAssure 
had either received these in July 2021 or it had failed to collect them. So, I thought ReAssure 
shouldve been in a position to process the application in July 2021.
However, I explained that I thought it was unlikely Ms R would meet the residency criteria to 
be able to open an RA with ReAssure. And that ReAssure couldve done more to explain the 
criteria to Ms R and that she may have acted differently had it done so. Nevertheless, I 
acknowledged that Ms R was in touch with an organisation in the UK, which was best placed 
to advise her on this. I also acknowledged that Ms R was in the process of applying for the 
RA again. I made recommendations as to how ReAssure could put the matter right for Ms R, 
including backdating the value of her pension should she be able to open a pension that 
would allow her to take her TFC.
I also thought that the matter had had a significant impact on Ms R and that ReAssure 
should pay £1,000 to compensate her for this.
I invited both parties to respond to the complaint by 6 February 2023.
Ms R didnt agree with my provisional decision and responded in detail. She said, in 
summary:
Her home was in England and had been for 60 years.
She still paid UK taxes and was a British national.
This was her money and she should be entitled to it. Shed saved for many years for 
her retirement and was now being prevented from accessing the money.
Shed been in touch with ReAssure and it was arranging to set up the RA account for 
her.
ReAssure also responded. It said:It had previously told Ms R that she needed to be a UK resident to be eligible for the 
RA and it didnt believe she was.
It was still unclear whether Ms R met the requirements to be eligible for an RA.
It agreed to pay Ms R £1,000 compensation.  
The complaint has now been passed back to me to consider and make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Ms R that its not my intention to stop her from accessing her pensions. But 
there are laws around who can access UK based pensions and how. I can see that 
ReAssure has previously tried to explain this to her. However, Ms R told ReAssure we was a 
UK resident. So it proceeded on this basis. 
Its clear Ms R remains of the opinion that she is entitled to open an RA and access her TFC. 
I understand that Ms R is again in the process of applying for an RA with ReAssure. Its not 
for us to demand ReAssure open an RA for Ms R if she doesnt meet the eligibility 
entitlement. So ReAssure will need to consider her application as it would any other. And 
Ms R may need to provide ReAssure with further information on this when it asks her. 
However, there have been significant delays caused by ReAssure to date. So it needs to 
proceed with this application without further delay. If Ms R is eligible and entitled to open the 
RA, ReAssure should do so as soon as possible. If shes not entitled to the RA, ReAssure 
should clearly explain why to Ms R.
If Ms R isnt entitled to the RA, Ms R will need to take financial advice as to what her options 
are to access her pension. We cannot advise her further on this. 
I remain of the opinion that ReAssure shouldve provided better customer service to Ms R. It 
has, at times, led her to believe that she could have something she may not be entitled to. 
And its made this process longer than it should be. I suggested £1,000 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this had caused. ReAssure agreed with this and, having thought 
about it again, Im satisfied this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
ReAssure should fairly consider Ms Rs application for an RA without further delay. If the 
application is successful, then ReAssure should backdate the value of the RA as if the 
transfer from the pension to the RA had occurred on 1 August 2021. It should also write to 
Ms R to explain how its done this calculation. 
If Ms R isnt eligible for the RA, ReAssure should explain clearly to Ms R the reasons why.
ReAssure should also pay Ms R £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman