DRN-2573144
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about how TSB Bank plc allocated funds following the sale of a 
secured property they both owned.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T sold a property in 2019. The sale proceeds were used by TSB to clear the 
mortgage on that property and to repay a debt owed by Mr T relating to his sole trader 
business. 
The remaining funds were used to reduce another debt jointly owed by Mr and Mrs T.
Mr and Mrs T were not initially aware of how the sale proceeds had been distributed. When 
they realised the funds hadnt all been applied to the account they expected, they contacted 
TSB to raise a complaint and ask for an explanation. 
TSB did not uphold the complaint. They said the terms of the security document confirmed 
that the property secured any debt incurred by either party as individuals, and it was on this 
basis that Mr Ts sole trader debt was paid off.
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with this outcome, so they brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, but he didnt think that TSB had acted 
unfairly. He said the charge TSB held against the property allowed them to use the proceeds 
of its sale to repay debts owed to them by either party. He also confirmed Mr and Mrs Ts 
solicitor were aware of which accounts the sale proceeds would need to be sent to.
Mr and Mrs T did not agree with our investigators view. Mrs T said Mr Ts sole trader debt 
was subject to a county court judgement (CCJ) and the payments were being paid to a third 
party and not TSB. 
Mrs T said TSB never told them how the money was going to be distributed. She said they 
only found out several months later, in the course of another sale, so she believes they have 
been misled by TSB. 
As a result, the matter was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T but I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Ive explained why below.
I shall focus on what seem to me to be the crucial points relevant to my decision, but I hope 
that both Mr and Mrs T and TSB will understand that if I do not refer to a particular point it 
doesnt mean I havent considered it.
Mr Ts sole trader debt
Having reviewed the documentation relating to the charge, I can see that it was provided by 
Mr and Mrs T as individuals and not as any other form of entity. The terms of the charge 
define secured amounts as all money and liabilities of any nature owed to TSB by Mr and 
Mrs T, either alone or jointly with anyone else, now or at any time in the future. This meant 
TSB could secure the debt owed by Mr T relating to his sole trader business against the 
property. 
Mrs T said Mr Ts sole trader debt was subject to a CCJ and the repayments were being 
made in instalments to a third party. The information I have seen in relation to this debt 
shows the debt was still due to TSB and the third party were collecting the payments on their 
behalf. As the debt was still due to TSB, the court order to pay in instalments would not 
overrule TSBs right to use the sale proceeds to clear Mr Ts debt.
As such I dont think TSB have acted unreasonably in applying the sale proceeds to the 
accounts it did.
Communication 
Mr and Mrs T said that TSB didnt make them aware of how the sale proceeds were going to 
be distributed and that they didnt find out about how theyd been applied until many months 
later. 
Mrs T provided emails between Mr T and TSB from June and July 2019 in which she says 
TSB state how the funds would be used. I agree with Mrs T that they dont specifically 
mention Mr Ts sole trader debt, but I dont agree that they detail exactly how all the funds 
would be distributed. What these emails do is confirm the facts of the charge in line with 
what I have already detailed above. 
TSB were communicating with Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor and I have seen two letters sent to 
them by TSB detailing which accounts the funds were to be paid to. So, Im satisfied that this 
information was made available to their solicitor. 
The emails Mrs T has referred to were sent prior to the account details being sent to their 
solicitor, so there was an opportunity at that stage for Mr and Mrs T to query why the funds 
were being distributed in that way. However, no query was raised either by Mr and Mrs T or 
their solicitor. 
As such, I cant say that Ive seen anything to indicate that TSB have intentionally misled Mr 
and Mrs T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman