DRN-2434544
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how SureStone Insurance dac handled a claim she made for 
damage to her bedframe and mattress.
What happened
Mrs H bought a bed and mattress from a high street retailer and at the same time took out 
an insurance policy to cover her for damage to the frame and mattress. Mrs H submitted a 
claim for damage to the bedframe. She said there was a grease stain and one of the 
drawers had been punctured so had a hole in it.
SureStone declined her claim. It said Mrs H wasnt covered for damage caused gradually 
over time which it thought the grease stain was. But it didnt comment on the damage to the 
drawer.
Mrs H complained to us before complaining to SureStone, so we passed her complaint on to 
SureStone for it to investigate. She complained that SureStone hadnt made it clear how to 
appeal its claim decision and she complained about SureStones decision to settle the claim 
in vouchers. SureStone investigated Mrs Hs complaint and acknowledged it should have 
done more about the damage to the drawer. It said it wouldnt have been cost effective to 
repair the bedframe, so it offered to settle the claim by providing Mrs H vouchers from the 
high street retailer she purchased the bedframe from, for the value she purchased the bed 
for.
Mrs H wasnt unhappy with SureStones response and asked us to look into her complaint. 
She said shed since disposed of the bed and didnt shop at the retailer she purchased her 
bedframe anymore so thought SureStone should settle her claim in cash. And she said there 
was also a stain on the mattress that she wanted to claim for.
Our investigator asked SureStone whether it would consider the claim for the ink stain to the 
mattress. SureStone said it wouldnt. It said it hadnt been made aware of the damage while 
the policy was in force, and that it had only found out about the damage some eight months 
after the policy had expired. So it said there was no way of telling if the damage occurred 
while the policy was in force.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought SureStone could have made it clearer how to dispute its claim decision but didnt 
think this led to Mrs H disposing of the bed. And she thought it was acting in line with the 
policy when settling the claim with vouchers. She thought SureStones decision not to accept 
Mrs Hs claim for damage to the mattress was reasonable too as it was made so long after 
the policy had expired.
Mrs H remained unsatisfied and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
she was hoping for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mrs Hs policy with SureStone covers her for accidental damage  amongst other things -  to 
her bedframe, and she has a separate policy covering her mattress for the same things. The 
terms and the conditions outline what is and what isnt covered. And its clear that Mrs H isnt 
covered for damage that occurs gradually over time.
Looking at the original claim, I can see Mrs H was claiming for a grease stain and a puncture 
to the drawer. Mrs H originally said this stain had been there for a while and had occurred 
progressively over time. Based on this Im satisfied SureStone were acting in line with the 
policy when declining this part of the claim.
But SureStone didnt address the puncture in the drawers when it should have. When it later 
assessed the complaint, it acknowledged this was an error. And although by this point the 
bedframe had been disposed of, it agreed to settle the claim. 
Mrs H is unhappy Surestone have settled the claim by offering her vouchers. But this is 
something its entitled to do. The policy says it might offer Mrs H vouchers to settle the claim, 
and if it does this itll offer vouchers from the retailer she purchased the bed from. I 
appreciate Mrs H has since said shes replaced the bed and doesnt shop at this retailer 
anymore. But the vouchers can be used to purchase other items other than a bedframe. And 
I dont think it would be fair to hold SureStone accountable for her choice not to have 
shopped there for a while. Ultimately, SureStone is acting in line with the policy here.
Looking at the claim for an ink stain to the mattress, Im satisfied SureStones decision not to 
accept this claim is reasonable. The first time SureStone were made aware of this issue was 
some eight months after the policy had lapsed. As such theres little way of knowing whether 
the damage occurred while the policy was still in place.
Mrs H feels the delay in dealing with the first claim and lack of clarity on how to dispute it 
further led to her decision to dispose of the bedframe. But I respectfully disagree here. I 
appreciate Mrs H may not have wanted to keep the bed, but Ive not seen any evidence to 
show it wasnt functional. Ultimately the claim for the bedframe was accepted. And as 
explained above Im satisfied the settlement offer is fair. 
Mrs H has also said the decline of her claim for her bedframe, the lack of clarity on how to 
dispute it and the delay in our service investigating her complaint was the reason she didnt 
raise her claim for the ink stain to her mattress earlier while the policy was still in force. I 
dont find it reasonable to hold SureStone responsible for Mrs H not raising either a claim, or 
a complaint about her mattress to it earlier, while the policy was in force. I appreciate 
SureStone could have been clearer in its decline letter of how to dispute its decision on her 
first claim. But the terms of the policy make it clear how to complain. And Ive not seen any 
evidence to show Mrs H asked either us or SureStone how to take the matter further, earlier 
than she did when raising the complaint to us for the first time. 
Mrs H feels shes being penalised for not knowing how to complain properly. But this isnt the 
case. I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Surestone responsible for Mrs Hs decision 
not to make a claim for the mattress based on the assumption that SureStone would decline 
it. But the reason Im satisfied its fair for SureStone to decline this part of the claim is 
because it was made so far after the period of cover had ended. Mrs H is only insured while 
the policy is in force. Submitting a claim after the policy has ended doesnt automatically mean shes not covered  because the damage could have still occurred while the policy 
was in force. But the first time either this service or SureStone were made aware of damage 
to the mattress was eight months after the policy had lapsed so theres no evidence to show 
the damage was caused while the policy was in force. And it is for Mrs H to show she has a 
valid claim, which I dont think she has here. 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman