DRN-2713145
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Lloyd Bank PLC didnt supply her with a new PIN for her current
account debit card in a timely manner, and also that a member of Lloyds staff who she
spoke to about this was rude to her.  
What happened
Ms H was in a traffic accident in October 2020 which left her with injuries. Her debit card was
stolen in the aftermath of this accident, and this meant that a new card needed to be ordered
and also a new PIN.
Ms H received a new card promptly, but when the letter which should have included the PIN
arrived, there was no PIN inside it. Ms H ordered another PIN. When it arrived, Ms H visited
a Lloyds branch to activate the card, but the PIN didnt work.
A new PIN was ordered, and Ms H was told by a member of Lloyds staff that it would be
delivered by first class post and so would be with her the next day. When the PIN didnt
arrive the next day, Ms H was told that all PINs are sent by second class post and can take
between three to five working days to arrive.
Ms H was frustrated at the lack of progress, and this was recognised by the member of
Lloyds staff who spoke with her and so a complaint was raised, which resulted in
compensation totalling £50 being paid to Ms H. It was also agreed at that time that Ms H
would wait for the PIN already ordered to arrive.
A further 11 days passed, and the PIN had still not arrived. Ms H called Lloyds again, who
confirmed that the PIN had been sent. Ms H felt that the member of staff whom she spoke
with on this occasion was rude.
After a further six days passed, Ms H contacted Lloyds again and confirmed that the PIN still
hadnt arrived. Lloyds ordered another PIN at this time, which was successfully received by
Ms H several days later and which enabled her to activate her debit card.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 February 2021 as follows:
Im in agreement with our investigator that Lloyds cant be held responsible
for items not being delivered in the post. However, Ive listened to all the telephone
recordings supplied by Lloyds, and while I consider that the majority of the Lloyds 
staff that Ms H spoke with handled the calls with Ms H to a very high standard, I 
agree with Miss H that on one particular call the standard of service she received 
wasnt as high as the others, and so I will be provisionally upholding her complaint on 
this basis.
Ultimately, the issues that Ms H has faced here stem from PINs requested by Lloyds 
not being delivered to her address, or in one instance not working when it was 
delivered. I can understand how frustrating this will have been for Ms H, especially 
given that she was recovering from a traffic accident at that time. But having 
reviewed this complaint Im satisfied that Lloyds did order the new PINs when they 
said they would, and that these PINs were sent.
Because the PINs are delivered by post  a process over which Lloyds have no 
control  I cant fairly censure Lloyds for the fact that one of the PINs ordered didnt 
arrive  especially given the struggles that all organisations, including the postal 
service, have faced during the ongoing pandemic.
Indeed, the non-arrival of the PIN presented Lloyds with the difficult choice of 
whether or not the best course of action would be to wait for the PIN already 
delivered to arrive or to order a new PIN, and Im satisfied that the decisions of 
Lloyds staff in this regard were made with Ms Hs best interests at heart.
So, while this would have been undoubtedly frustrating for Ms H, from a practical 
perspective its difficult to see what else Lloyds could have done, and it follows that I 
wont be upholding this aspect of Ms Hs complaint.
However, as mentioned above, I do feel that on one occasion a member of Lloyds 
staff didnt handle Ms Hs telephone call to the same high standard of their 
colleagues, and I think its reasonable that Ms H considered that this member of staff 
had been rude to her.
I must highlight the context of the calls that Ms H was making here, taking place as 
they did when Ms H was recovering from injuries sustained in a car accident. Its not 
unreasonable to consider that Ms H was in a vulnerable state at that time, and its 
clear from the calls that I have listened to that Ms H was very frustrated by the events 
that followed that accident, including her continuing inability to activate her debit card.
It must have been disappointing for Ms H when a member of Lloyds staff conducted 
a telephone call with her in a manner that made her feel that she was being rudely 
spoken to, especially given the high standard of customer service provided to her on 
other phone calls.
Issues of rudeness are always subjective, and having listened to the call I 
acknowledge that the member of staff in question may not have intended any offence 
to Ms H. I also acknowledge that Lloyds staff face the same additional and unique 
pressures as we all do during these unusual times.
But I do accept Ms Hs claim that she was spoken to rudely, and even though the 
incident was an isolated one, I feel that a fair and reasonable outcome here is to 
provisionally uphold Ms Hs complaint on this basis. I also feel that Lloyds should 
make a further payment of £50 to Ms H because of this.
My provisional decision letter invited both Ms H and Lloyds to provide any comments or 
additional information that they wished me to consider before I issued my final decision. 
Lloyds confirmed that they were happy with the provisional decision, while Ms H did not 
respond.
It follows that I see no reason not to uphold this complaint on the basis outlined above.
  Putting things right
Lloyds must make an additional payment of £50 to Ms H above and beyond the £50 
compensation that has already been paid.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman