DRN-3225089
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car acquired with finance from Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage. At the point of supply the car was around 10 years old and had 
covered around 106,000 miles.
Mr P experienced some issues within a few days of getting the car. The engine was making 
a noise. He reported the issue to the supplying dealer several times between September 
2019 and January 2020 but each time the dealer advised that it couldnt find any faults.
Mr P reported his concerns to Advantage in September 2019 and said he was taking the car 
to the supplying dealer and would send on any information. Advantage says it didnt hear 
anything further from Mr P until July 2020, when he contacted them to report another issue 
with the car.
Mr P took the car to a garage in July 2020 who found an issue with the timing chain. Work 
was carried out to rectify this and the garage provided a diagnostic report, which Mr P 
forwarded to Advantage.
Mr P complained to Advantage in July 2020. He said the engine was noisy. Advantage 
offered to arrange an independent inspection of the car.
The inspection was carried out in July 2020. The engineer concluded that the car required 
further investigation and was lacking power under acceleration. It said that based on the time 
and mileage elapsed since the point of supply, the faults would not have been present at the 
point of supply.
In November 2020 the engine failed. Mr P contacted Advantage and advised that the car 
had been recovered to a garage, who had requested authorisation to remove the engine to 
investigate further. Advantage advised Mr P that he would need to provide proof of a fault.
In December 2020 Mr P advised Advantage that the repairs had been completed but that he 
couldnt afford to pay the garage. Advantage spoke to the garage who advised that the fault 
had been caused by oil pressure and that Mr P had authorised the repairs. 
Advantage passed this information to the engineer who had caried out the independent 
inspection. The engineer said there had been no major issues evident at the time of the 
inspection.
Advantage referred this to another independent diagnostic company. It said it agreed with 
the first engineer that the car was fit for purpose at the point of supply, and that the 
information provided by the repairing garage in relation to the crankshaft failure wasnt 
evidence of an underlying issue because a crankshaft could fail at any time. 
Advantage issued a final response to Mr P and advised him of what both diagnostic 
companies had said. It said that it wasnt upholding Mr Ps complaint because there was no 
evidence to suggest that the issue had been present at the point of supply.
Mr P wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. The garage took the 
engine out of the car at Mr Ps request and the car remined in storage at the garage. 
Advantage sought to recover the car as abandoned but the garage refused to release it 
without payment for the repairs.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he hadnt seen any evidence to link the 
fault with the car to the timing chain repair, and no evidence to suggest that there was a fault 
with the car when it was supplied.
Mr P didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Advantage supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second-hand car 
such as that supplied to Mr P to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more regular 
repairs than a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car, as opposed to a fault which occurred 
due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the 
repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mr P and Advantage disagree about whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. In order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and 
decide, on the balance of probabilities, whether there was an inherent fault with the car.
Based on the evidence Ive seen from the repairing garages. Im satisfied that there are 
faults with the car. The information from the garage who repaired the timing chain in July 
2020 says that the chain was out by two teeth and that the bolts were overtightened. Based 
on the nature of the fault, I think its more likely than not that this was present at the point of 
supply. I can see that repairs were accrued out to the timing chain and that the supplying 
dealer contributed to the cost of repairs.
Ive gone on to consider whether the repairs to the timing chain were successful. Mr P thinks 
that the fault with the timing chain is linked to the later fault with the crankshaft. The 
information from the garage who repaired the engine says that the bearings failed due to a 
lack of oil circulation, causing the crankshaft to run dry and break in half, which in turn 
caused damage to the engine block. The garage hasnt linked this fault to the timing chain. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, the fault with the timing chain and the fault with the 
crankshaft are two separate faults, Mr P didnt report any further issues with the timing chain 
after it had been repaired. So, it seems that the repairs to the timing chain were successful.Ive thought about whether the fault with the crankshaft was present or developing at the 
point of supply. In doing so, Ive had regard to both engineers reports.
The first report, obtained in July 2020, says that the car lacked power under acceleration and 
required further investigation. The engineer noted that Mr P had owned the car for around 10 
months at the time of the inspection and had covered around 7000 miles. The engineer said 
that because of this, he didnt think the fault was present at the point of supply. 
The report isnt conclusive because it says further investigation is needed. However, the 
engineer is very clear that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply. Mr P hasnt 
provided any evidence to suggest otherwise, so on the weight of evidence Im persuaded by 
the engineers report.
The second report, obtained in December 2020, said it agreed with the first report insofar as 
the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The engineer considered the 
information provided by the garage who carried out repairs to the engine but concluded that 
the crankshaft could have failed at any time for any number of reasons and wasnt faulty at 
the point of supply. 
Taking both reports into consideration, Im unable to find any evidence to suggest that there 
was a fault at the point of supply. Whilst I can see that the garage who repaired the engine 
thought that the fault was due to an underlying issue, I cant treat this opinion as truly 
independent and it is outweighed by the conclusions of the other two engineers. On balance, 
it seems more likely that the fault with the engine arose due to general wear and tear.
For these reasons, Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. So, I wont be asking Advantage to do anything. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman