DRN-3901452
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Sabre Insurance Company Limited handled his claim on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr H had a commercial vehicle insurance policy to cover his van. In September 2021 he 
experienced a problem with the gears while he was driving. He pulled onto a grass verge, 
however there were boulders hidden by the grass that caused damage to the underside of 
the vehicle.
He made a claim on the insurance and after some initial communication issues, Mr H 
confirmed he was happy for it to be inspected. This was arranged at the beginning of 
December 2021.  The engineer concluded that it would need a mechanical inspection and 
would have to be inspected on a ramp  for the underside to be looked at properly. 
Sabre confirmed to Mr H that a garage would contact him directly. However Mr H didnt hear 
anything more from Sabre until its agent called at the end of January 2022. The vehicle was 
inspected again, but the engineer said he wasnt a mechanical expert and so it would need 
to be inspected elsewhere. Sabre therefore asked Mr H to arrange his own garage for the 
inspection. This was arranged at the end of February 2022 and the vehicle was declared 
beyond economical repair. 
Mr H was unhappy with how long it had taken for his vehicle to be inspected. He was also 
unhappy that Sabre wasnt prepared to pursue costs from the council due to the hidden 
boulders and said he had been left without a vehicle which had caused him inconvenience. 
He made a complaint.
Sabre upheld his complaint and offered £75 to make up for the delays it had caused. 
However Mr H was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended Sabre pay an additional £75 compensation as she thought it 
had caused around a two month delay. However she didnt think it had acted unreasonably 
by not pursuing the council and didnt agree it had left Mr H without a vehicle. Mr H wasnt 
happy with this and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Sabre should pay an 
additional £75 compensation, Ive explained why below. 
While the initial delay in Sabre inspecting the vehicle was out of its control, between its first 
inspection at the start of December 2021 and the next one at the end of January 2022 no 
progress was made on the claim. Sabre has said its agent tried to contact Mr H during this 
time but has provided no evidence to support this and its agent has said that this wasnt the 
case. 
When the vehicle was inspected at the end of January the engineer confirmed again that a 
mechanical inspection was required, as this had been the conclusion of the first visit, the 
second inspection was unnecessary and delayed matters further. It wasnt until this point 
that Sabre said Mr H would need to arrange his own inspection. This should have happened 
after the first engineers inspection.
The vehicle was then inspected by a mechanical engineer at the end of February and 
declared beyond economical repair. Had this been done straight after the first inspection as 
it should have been, the claim would have been concluded more than two months earlier 
than it was. If it had done so, Mr H would have been able to obtain the claim settlement 
earlier and wouldnt have had to continue to chase for a resolution to his claim. I therefore 
agree Sabre caused unnecessary delays and caused Mr H undue distress and 
inconvenience Based on the I think £150 is a fair amount of compensation that is in line with 
this services approach to similar complaints. 
Mr H has said he is unhappy that Sabre has refused to pursue the local council for costs, 
due to the fact the boulders were disguised by long grass. Sabre has said that it doesnt 
agree there is a case against the council and doesnt think it would be able to recover the 
costs from it. Considering the circumstances, I dont think this is unreasonable. It explained 
to Mr H that it would register the claim as a fault claim before it went ahead with it, and this is 
what Id expect it to do in the circumstances.
Mr H has said that due to the delays in progressing the claim, hes been left without a 
vehicle. However hes confirmed that between inspections he has continued to use the 
vehicle. And since it was declared beyond economical repair Sabre has settled the claim 
promptly. So I dont agree Sabre caused Mr H to be without a vehicle due to its handling of 
the claim..
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I require Sabre Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H an 
additional £75 compensation to bring the total to £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman