DRN-2735821
The complaint
Mr S and Ms W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr S and Ms W bought a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in 1999. It was in Mr Ss 
sole name and gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. The sale took place 
in a bank branch and they paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S and Ms W disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr S and Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr S and Ms W had to agree to take it
out. I cant know what was said during the meeting, so I dont know how Halifax presented 
the PPI to Mr S and Ms W. But I have looked carefully at the paperwork from the sale.  On 
their mortgage application form Mr S and Ms W both signed to confirm they wanted PPI. 
Mr S then signed a separate PPI application form, answering a number of eligibility 
questions. This form set out the cost of the PPI separately. The cost was included separately 
on the mortgage quotes the bank provided. There was nothing on any of the paperwork that 
I think could reasonably have led Mr S and Ms W to believe the PPI was mandatory.
On balance, I think its most likely Halifax made it clear Mr S and Ms W had a choice about 
PPI - and they opted to take it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr S and Ms W, so it had to make sure it was suitable for 
Mr S. They say they didnt need PPI and didnt use it when Mr S was off work for nine 
months. I think the PPI seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss
circumstances at the time. Mr S was entitled to between six- and 12-months sick pay but the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits, and for much longer - up to 24 
months. It also gave him redundancy cover for the same length of time  again this would 
have paid out in addition to any employee benefits. It would have allowed them to protect 
any lump sum redundancy payment Mr S received giving increased financial stability at an 
already difficult time. 
Mr S and Ms W said they had savings worth 12 months salary, but the PPI would have 
allowed them to use these to cover other living expenses whilst Mr S wasnt working, or to 
keep them intact for their future needs. They have also told us they had an endowment they 
couldve cashed in, but the PPI would have prevented them from taking such a measure and 
allowed them to use their endowment as the long-term investment vehicle its meant to be. 
Ms W asks why we havent considered her income when they were jointly liable for the debt. 
I note from their mortgage application that the bank only took into account Mr Ss income 
when it made its underwriting decision, so its recommendation to protect solely his salary 
with the PPI seems reasonable. And given what Mr S and Ms W have now told us about the 
level of Ms Ws income at the time I cant fairly conclude it meant they didnt need PPI.  
Overall, given the consequences for Mr S and Ms W of defaulting on a high-value, long-term
debt secured against their home, I think the PPI would have been useful for them - in
addition to their existing means - if Mr S was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr S and Ms W all the information they needed before they
decided to buy PPI. But this alone doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold. What I need to
decide is if its most likely Mr S and Ms W would have made a different decision with better
information. The cost was made clear on the PPI application form and on their mortgage 
quotes, and the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered, and apparently 
affordable. I dont know when Halifax first pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover, 
like medical exclusions or limitations for certain types of employment contract. But Mr S 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. So overall, I dont think its 
most likely better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr S and Ms W have lost out because of any problems with the sale. I 
note Ms W says they didnt claim when they could have showing they didnt need it. For the 
reasons set out above this doesnt change my conclusion, but they could contact the insurer 
to see if they might be able to make a retrospective claim.
Mr S and Ms W also say they received a PPI refund for a later period when they had a much 
larger mortgage, but I can only comment here on the individual merits of this complaint. 
There are many reasons consumers decide to protect their debt, or not. And the outcome of 
PPI complaints will vary based on a number of different factors, including  but not limited to 
 how and when the policy was sold; the credit product it protected; the cost and benefit 
level; and the terms and conditions of the policy  as well as a customers circumstances.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman