DRN-1548671
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the information that Lloyds Bank Plc has recorded on their 
credit files about their mortgage.
What happened
On 28 August 2019, Mr and Mrs W's mortgage payment was due to be made to Lloyds. As 
they knew they wouldn't have enough money to make the payment they cancelled the direct 
debit mandate for the mortgage.
Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs W and said it would attempt to recollect the direct debit within 12 
days. Mr and Mrs W say that the letter also said that they should not make the payment 
manually - that is online or over the phone by debit card. 
On 2 September 2019, Mrs W phoned Lloyds and made the payment that was due in 
August. Lloyds recorded the payment as being late on Mr and Mrs W's credit files. They 
want this information removed. They say the letter Lloyds sent when the payment was 
missed said they should not make the payment manually or say whether a late payment 
would be recorded on their credit files. Mr and Mrs W say that they will be unable to repay 
friends, family and their employer as they won't be able to remortgage as they'd planned.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W didn't accept 
what she said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isn't in dispute that Mr and Mrs W missed the August payment for their mortgage. So it is 
accurate to record on their credit file that they were late making that payment - even if it was 
only a few days late. Lloyds is obliged to record true and accurate information on its 
customers' credit files. So, while I understand all of the reasons Mr and Mrs W have given 
why Lloyds should amend the information it has recorded on their credit file, I don't consider 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to do so.
We don't have a copy of the actual letter that Lloyds sent to Mr and Mrs W. It is not unusual 
in my experience for a lender not to have the actual letter it sent. Lloyds has provided a 
template of the letter it says it sent. The letter says "Our guide How to Pay shows you the 
payment options available - such as paying by debit card over the phone, by direct debit, 
online or by cheque. If you have a direct debit in place and your last direct debit payment 
didnt go through, we may try to take the payment out of your account again. If we do, this 
will happen within 12 working days of the date your direct debit was initially returned unpaid." 
It goes on to say that it may report the arrears to credit reference agencies.
Lloyds says the letter is sent when an account falls into arrears. Mr and Mrs W say 
they received a letter from Lloyds following the missed payment - but they haven't been able to produce a copy of it. I think it is more likely it was the above letter they received. So based 
on the information available to me, I think it is less likely that Lloyds told Mr and Mrs W not to 
make a manual payment and that it didn't tell them about how their credit files would be 
affected. 
I find it unlikely that Lloyds sent a different letter to Mr and Mrs W. But even if the letter did 
contain the information Mr and Mrs W said it did, I don't consider it would have 
been reasonable for them to wait for another direct debit to be collected when they knew 
they had cancelled the direct debit mandate. 
I'm sorry to hear about how upset Mr and Mrs W have been because of what happened. But 
after considering everything they have said, I think Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Ken Rose
Ombudsman