DRN-1665029
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Provincial Building Society) mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy in 1979 at the same time as they applied for a mortgage. 
The sale took place during a branch meeting. The policy was in Mr W's sole name and 
initially gave him cover against personal accident and sickness. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where there is a dispute about what 
happened and the evidence is incomplete, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and 
what we know about how Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. Santander cant provide a copy of Mr Ws policy document, so Ive relied on a copy of 
the policy from the nearest available date and what we know about the policy terms of 
similar products sold at this time.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs W had to agree to 
take it out. I can't know what was said in the meeting but I've looked at the available 
paperwork from Mr and Mrs W's sale. On their mortgage application form they were asked if 
they wanted the cover. The form indicates that they did want PPI, and the adviser wrote 
'details given' next to this section. There was nothing on the form that I think could 
reasonably have led Mr and Mrs W to believe the PPI was mandatory. I note Mr and Mrs W 
say they didn't complete the form, it was done for them. But they signed it and it's not 
unreasonable to expect they would have read it carefully before signing. So I think it's fair for 
the bank to provide it as evidence of the discussion and agreement that took place in the 
meeting.  The cost of the PPI was also set out separately on their Completion Notice.
Overall, I think Santander made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs W agreed to 
take it out. 
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W for Mr W so it had to make sure it 
was right for him. Based on what I've seen of his circumstances at the time I think it was 
suitable. I say this because:
- He was eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that 
would make it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract 
he had when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So he wouldnt 
have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
- Mr W was entitled to some sick pay from his employer but the PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to any work benefits and for up to 24 months for each successful accident 
and sickness claim. Mr W said he had some savings but the PPI wouldve allowed him 
to use any savings to cover other living costs whilst he wasnt working  or to keep 
them intact for his future needs. Mr W also said his parents would have helped, but 
thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples 
circumstances can change.  Mr and Mrs W had taken out a long-term debt secured 
against their home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments I 
think the policy would have been useful for them if Mr W was sick or lost his job.
- Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Mr and Mrs W say they purchased the policy jointly as part of their mortgage and it should 
be considered whether it was mis-sold to both Mr W and Mrs W even though Mrs W wasn't 
covered. So, was she made aware of this and was it right given her income was needed to 
meet the mortgage payments. 
I agree that as Mr and Mrs W took out a joint mortgage I need to look at whether the bank 
set up the cover between Mr and Mrs W correctly. Having looked at the evidence I can't be 
sure if it did. But I've looked at what we know about the policy and can see that no matter 
how the cover was set up the overall cost would've been the same. This is because the cost 
of the policy is based on the benefit it would pay. So although the policy only covered Mr W 
which might not have been right in Mr and Mrs W's circumstances the cost wouldn't 
have changed if the cover - and therefore the benefit - had been shared between them. This 
means they would only be worse off if Mrs W needed to make a claim. But I've seen no 
evidence this happened. So as Mr and Mrs W never made a claim on their policy they 
haven't lost out. 
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. Mr and Mrs W say they were given no information about the policy terms. The 
Completion Notice does state that the Personal accident and sickness schedule was 
enclosed, as well as the Certificate they have provided. But I agree its possible 
Santander didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same reasons I find the 
policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision. I say this 
as Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of main exclusions or limitations, and 
the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
I know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed with my conclusion, but it follows I dont think Mr 
and Mrs W lost out because of any problems with the sale. I note they also have concerns 
with how the bank handled their complaint and we asked the bank to comment on the issues 
they raised. The bank feels that it corrected its errors once they came to light. As I am not 
upholding this complaint, I have no powers to tell the bank to apologise or to compensate Mr 
and Mrs W for any failure in the banks handling of this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman