DRN-2927826
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) delayed her ISA transfer which 
caused a financial loss of around £2,000.
Mrs M would like Barclays to compensate her for the loss.
What happened
On 20 May 2019, Mrs M visited a Barclays branch to request the transfer of her Investment 
ISA to an existing Cash ISA. Mrs M was provided with a copy of the completed ISA transfer 
instruction.
During June and July 2019, Mrs M continued to get charges fees for her Investment ISA and 
called Barclays to check the status of the transfer. Barclays said that the transfer request 
may not have been completed and Mrs M was advised to submit another transfer request. 
Mrs M complained at this point.
Mrs M received fresh forms on 25 and 26 July (duplicates) and these were completed by Mrs 
M and sent back to Barclays.
On 1 August 2019, Barclays confirmed receipt of transfer application and they sent a letter to 
Mrs M on 8 August 2019 apologising and offered Mrs M £150 compensation and a refund of 
her fees. Its not clear if Mrs M received this letter at the time and it may have been received 
in a letter that Barclays sent on 13 September 2019.
Mrs M was not happy with this offer and asked Barclays to consider the financial loss that 
she said she suffered as a result of the delays.
Barclays replied with another offer on 15 October 2019. Barclays increased their offer to 
£250 for the trouble and upset caused. Barclays had also offered Mrs M a hamper in 
addition to this amount.
It appears that Mrs M did not receive this letter and sent Barclays reminders asking them to 
consider her complaint and her financial loss. Mrs M received the 15 October 2019 letter as 
an enclosure to a letter from Barclays on 22 February 2020.
Mrs M replied on 8 March 2020 still unhappy with Barclays decision. Barclays replied on 18 
March 2020 saying that their complaints procedure had been completed and Mrs M had their 
final response.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mrs M referred her complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators investigated her complaint. The investigator thought that Barclays had tried to 
resolve the complaint and their offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. The 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs M has asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint.
I know that Mrs M feels strongly about her complaint and I will explain my decision.
Barclays have admitted that the transfer took too long, and I think that the details behind the 
delay are not disputed so its not my intention to go over the reasons why the transfer was 
delayed. My decision will look at what steps Barclays took to resolve the complaint and 
whether this was fair and reasonable.
It is not the job of the service to punish a business for something that it has done wrong, but 
we will look for the business to put the consumer back in the position they should have been 
in had the error not occurred. The service will also look at any financial loss that the 
consumer has suffered and if the business has offered adequate compensation.
In her submission to the service, Mrs M says that her husband submitted an ISA transfer at 
the same time to another provider and this was completed mid-June 2019. Mrs M says that 
her husbands transfer realised a value of over £3,000 more. Mrs M says that as the 
portfolios had similar values, she believes that she has suffered a financial loss of over 
£2,000.
Barclays have offered Mrs M £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. They 
have also refunded fees that were taken when the transfer was ongoing and offered Mrs M a 
hamper as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs M says that Barclays did not respond to her request for financial loss. The investigator 
asked Barclays about Mrs Ms claim for financial loss and Barclays responded saying that 
Mrs M had the opportunity to sell her investments when the transfer was proceeding.
Barclays say that a call on 29 July 2019 between Barclays and Mrs M covered the point 
about the value of her investments while the transfer was being completed. Barclays say that 
the agent provided Mrs M with information which would allow Mrs M to mitigate any loss of 
value while her transfer was progressing.
I have listened to this call and the agent confirmed the value of Mrs Ms investment and 
compares it against the value when the transfer was initially submitted. They said that the 
value had increased by around £800 and had not lost any value to this point. The agent goes 
on to say:
If you are worried that this may take longer, what you can do is you can sell your investment 
in advance of the transfer instruction getting to us. Then you can set a price at that point and 
this would stop you worrying about whether or not it is going to go up or down.
The agent checked that Mrs M had understood this point and she confirmed that she did. In 
their submission to the service, Barclays say that Mrs M was provided with information that 
allowed her to sell her investments. Barclays say that Mrs M did not take this opportunity and 
cant be held responsible for any subsequent change in value due to price movements.Having listened to the call I think that Barclays provided Mrs M with information that allowed 
her to consider selling her investments. Although I sympathise with Mrs M that the value of 
her investments dropped when the transfer was completed, she had the opportunity to sell 
and mitigate any potential loss. As her Investment ISA was held in an execution only 
account, the decision to sell was down to Mrs M and Barclays did not have the authority to 
sell investments ahead of the ISA transfer being completed.
As Mrs M did not take the decision to sell investments ahead of the ISA transfer, I cant hold 
Barclays responsible for any loss of value at the time the transfer was completed.
Once the transfer forms were received for the second time, the transfer was completed 
within a reasonable timeframe.
I have looked at the level of compensation offered by Barclays for the delay in the transfer 
and think that this is in line with what the service would suggest so Im not going to ask 
Barclays to do anything else here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman