DRN-3306107
The complaint
Miss B complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim she made on a home 
insurance policy.
Where I refer in this decision to AXA, this includes its agents and representatives acting on 
its behalf.
What happened
Miss B insures her home with a policy provided by AXA. Following an escape of water at her 
home, she made a claim and AXA confirmed that it was covered.
Miss B made a complaint to AXA, saying there had been excessive delays during the claim. 
She said these delays had had a significant impact on her and her family, particularly her 
son whose room had been damaged and had been sleeping elsewhere in the house for 
several months.
AXA recognised that the service Miss B had received hadnt been of the required standard 
and offered her £350 compensation to recognise this. Miss B referred the complaint to our 
service and when AXA responded to us it increased this offer to £500. Our investigator 
thought this offer was fair. Miss B doesnt agree, and so has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What isnt disputed here is that the service Miss B has received from AXA during the claim 
wasnt acceptable. What I need to determine is whether the £500 offered as compensation is 
sufficient in the circumstances.
Ive concluded that I think this is a fair offer. I agree that the £350 originally offered before 
Miss B approached our service wasnt sufficient but that the increase by £150 more suitably 
recognises the distress, inconvenience and disruption experienced by Miss B.
It isnt unusual for insurance claims to take a long time to resolve and cause disruption and 
inconvenience to policyholders. This is especially true where theres damage to a property, 
as the cause of that damage has to be established, inspections carried out in order to 
assess the repairs required and the actual repairs themselves will take time. The disruption 
and time taken as a result of these isnt something wed expect an insurer to compensate 
policyholders for. Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and effectively. Where 
avoidable, excessive delays occur because of an insurers actions or inaction then wed 
expect this to be recognised by the insurer, and compensation paid where appropriate.
Miss B reported the claim to AXA in April 2021, and the final repairs were completed in 
November 2021  a period of more than 7 months elapsed before the repairs were 
complete. The last repairs to be completed were the replacement of a radiator which was the 
replacement for one which was installed as part of the initial repairs had stopped working, 
according to AXAs records, and the fitting of a replacement carpet.
I havent been provided with full details of the radiator, for example when the replacement 
stopped working or what caused that to happen. Irrespective of this though, I do agree with 
Miss B that there was an excessive delay in replacing the carpet. Ive seen evidence that at 
the end of April she had made AXA aware of the need to replace these, but by August 
contractors to supply fit the carpet were still in discussions with AXA about this point. Its also 
unclear why, once those matters had been resolved, there was a further delay in fitting the 
carpet. These were contractors sourced and arranged by AXA, so its liable for their actions 
in my consideration of this complaint.
In terms of carrying out the initial repair works there were also unnecessary delays. I can see 
evidence that AXA appointed a contractor to carry out drying of the property (which was 
needed before the repairs could be carried out), but a month later Miss B was in contact to 
say she hadnt heard from the contractors. AXA recognised this and appointed different 
contractors to progress the claim. However, I can see that there was still a further lack of 
contact from the new contractors and Miss B was in regular contact with AXA in order to 
progress the claim.
This was, from what I can see, a regular occurrence. Most of AXAs chasing of the various 
contractors took place after Miss B was in contact to say there had been no progress. I cant 
say that AXA was acting pro-actively to progress the claim, and there were avoidable delays 
at various points of the claim. 
In summary, I dont agree that AXA has handled Miss Bs claim promptly and effectively.
Ive gone onto consider the impact of these issues on Miss B, and I think that this has been 
considerable. So Miss B has been inconvenienced by having to contact AXA in order to find 
out what was happening, or to effect any meaningful progress on the claim.
As a result of the carpet not being replaced, her son was unable to move back into his room 
for a period of over 7 months. I accept that not all of this period was avoidable  as Ive said 
inspections of the damage, engagement of contractors, agreement of repairs, stripping out 
and drying of the property had to take place before the works could be carried out. After that 
the works themselves would have always have had to take place. But I think that avoidable 
delays of several months have occurred as a result of inaction by AXA and its appointed 
contractors. 
I agree that this would have caused significant distress to Miss B and her son, as well as the 
rest of the family who live at the property. Shes explained that as a result of his room being 
out of use, he was sharing with other family members and sleeping in the hall. Shes told us 
this has affected his sleep and health. I do think that theres been considerable distress, 
disruption and inconvenience caused by AXAs lack of action on the claim for several 
months.
Looking at our guidance for the amounts of compensation that should be paid, I do find 
myself in agreement that £500 is suitable in these circumstances. Its important to note that 
the role of our service in saying a business should pay compensation isnt to punish the 
business. I think the total offer of £500 by AXA is reasonable in all the circumstances, taking 
into the account AXAs responsibility for the issues encountered by Miss B and the impact of 
these issues on her.My final decision
Its my final decision that AXA Insurance Plcs offer of £500 compensation in total is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman