DRN-1892596
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with her complaint when she called it.
What happened
Miss B called Lloyds Bank about a problem which was dealt with separately by Lloyds. She 
says during the telephone call she was given incorrect information and wasn't aware there 
was a third person from Lloyds on the call. She also says that as the call concluded Lloyds 
assumed she had left the call and that derogatory comments were made about her.
Lloyds upheld Miss B's complaint in part and said there was no need for another member of 
its staff to remain on the call but said it has dealt with the actual complaint point separately. It 
doesn't accept anything derogatory was said about Miss B and has offered £30 
compensation for what took place and offered to refund Miss B's call costs of £12.
Miss B brought both her complaints to us and our investigator thought Lloyds compensation 
offer fair and reasonable for this complaint.  The investigator thought the main issue had 
been dealt with separately and didn't think Lloyds staff were derogatory towards Miss B but 
accepted the call could have handled differently.
Miss B doesn't accept that view and says she was given incorrect information that caused 
her stress and that compensation offer isn't enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Lloyds has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer and I don't 
require it to do anything further in the circumstances of the complaint. I appreciate Miss B 
will be disappointed by my decision and I make clear that I can only consider the complaint 
about how the telephone call was dealt with and not the main complaint as that as been 
looked at separately.
I have listed to the call and I appreciate how concerned Miss B was about the possibility of 
incorrect information being registered by Lloyds. For the reasons I have explained that 
formed part of the separate complaint and is not something I can consider but I accept how 
important that issue was. I'm satisfied that Miss B was told that the member of Lloyds staff 
she first spoke to was going to remain on the call. I can see that Lloyds now says that was 
unnecessary but I don't think that had a significant impact on Miss B. 
I have listened carefully to the end of the call and think it clear that Lloyds staff assumed 
Miss B had left the call. But I don't think the short conversation that then took place was 
derogatory but that the Lloyds staff member repeated that she thought the advice given was 
correct.
Overall I'm satisfied that Lloyds has fairly apologised for how the call was handled and has fairly offered compensation. I don't think the call would have had a significant impact on Miss 
B or that she has suffered any financial loss here. I will leave it to Miss B to decide if she 
wishes to accept Lloyds offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer. Miss B's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman