DRN-1062661
complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him.  
background
This complaint is about 18 loans Sunny provided to Mr S between April 2017 and August 
2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint about loans 5 onwards and thought these loans 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Our adjudicator felt loans 1  4 
shouldnt be upheld, and Mr S seems to have agreed with this opinion. So as these loans 
are no longer in dispute, I havent considered these further in my decision. But I have looked 
at all of Mr Ss loans when considering his overall lending history with Sunny.
Sunny says that it completed sufficient checks before lending Mr S any of his loans, but as 
our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loans 5 - 7 would most likely have 
shown that Mr S had a number of payday loans with other providers at the same time. He 
was also consistently overdrawn in on his account. Sunny says it was aware of the other 
short-term loans Mr S had at the time, but it still felt the loans were affordable for him. 
However, looking at all of this evidence its clear he was having trouble managing his 
finances, and taking out multiple loans from multiple providers in an attempt to cope with his 
current financial situation. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of s lending history with Mr S, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
8. I say this because:
 
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr S had taken out 8 loans within 7 months and had been indebted to 
Sunny for almost all of this time. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not Mr S was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous 
loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
 
Mr Ss first loan was for £200 and loan 8 was also for £200, and even though Mr Ss 
loan amounts were varied over this period they were not significantly reducing over 
time. And at the point of applying for loan 8 Sunny ought to have known that Mr S 
was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an 
ongoing need. 
 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 18 was 
taken out more than a year after Mr Ss first. And loans 15  18 were written off. So Mr S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
 
I think that Mr S lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 onwards 
because:
 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
 
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 5 onwards and Sunny should put things 
right.
putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 5 - 18;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans 5 -7 from Mr Ss credit file;
 
the number of loans taken from loans 8 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 8 - 18 should be removed from 
Mr Ss credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman