DRN-2635517
The complaint
Mr H complains that EUI Limited didnt send him his renewal documents for his motor 
insurance policy in good time. 
What happened
Mr Hs policy was due for renewal, but he said he didnt receive any renewal information. 
EUI said it had sent him an email with a link to the renewal pack that was available on his 
online portal. But Mr H said he didnt receive this email and couldnt access his information. 
Mr H said EUI didnt tell him in a call what his previous years premium had been. EUI said it 
should have sent the pack by post as well. It gave Mr H an extra weeks cover and paid him 
£50 compensation as his father had taken out temporary cover whilst he shopped around. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought EUI 
had sent Mr H the renewal email. She couldnt see evidence that Mr H had accessed his 
online account. She thought EUI had told Mr H what his previous years premium had been 
in the renewal pack. She thought it had reasonably compensated Mr H for any service 
failings. 
Mr H replied that he disagreed. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
EUI said it sent Mr H an email two weeks before his renewal date telling him that his renewal 
pack was available online. Mr H said he didnt receive this email. But EUI has provided 
evidence that it was correctly sent, so I cant say why Mr H didnt receive this. 
Mr H said he hadnt agreed to have his documents made available online. But I can see that 
this was his preference when he first took out his policy and I cant see that hes changed 
this. 
Mr H then called EUI the day before his renewal to say he wasnt able to access his 
documents. But I havent seen evidence that Mr H tried to access his documents on the 
portal after EUI sent them.
However, EUI did agree that there sometimes problems with customers assessing their 
documents online. When Mr H called, it agreed to send them to the online portal again. It 
also offered to send them by post, but Mr H declined this offer. 
When a business makes a mistake, as EUI accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
I can see that EUI acted immediately to send Mr H his documents again once he had made 
it aware of the problem. It also offered to send them by post. It also gave Mr H a weeks 
cover while he sought an affordable policy. So I think this reasonably restored Mr Hs 
position.
Mr H thought EUI should have told him last years premium in his phone call. But I think it 
provided him with a new renewal pack which contained this information and Mr H was able 
to access this. So I cant say that EUI made a mistake in this. 
In terms of the impact the error had on Mr H, EUI paid Mr H £50 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience. This included £30 for the cost of temporary cover whilst a more 
affordable policy was sought. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with the 
level Id award in similar circumstances. I dont require EUI to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons give above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman