DRN-3352151
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by PSA Finance UK Limited 
following the return of his car.
What happened
On 16 June 2016, Mr M was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
PSA. He paid an advance payment of £936, and the agreement was for £16,804 over 37 
months, with 36 monthly payments of £316.67 and a final optional payment of £6,436 if Mr M 
wanted to purchase the car. The agreement permitted 18,000 miles a year (54,000 over the 
term of the agreement), with any excess mileage being charged at 8.4 pence a mile.
In January 2019, Mr M decided to voluntary terminate (VT) the agreement. And PSA 
arranged to collect the car. The car was then inspected and PSA invoiced Mr M for £614.72 - 
£422 for damage that exceeded normal fair wear and tear, and £197.74 for excess mileage. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and, after reviewing the situation, PSA reduced the damage 
charges to £235. This was further reduced by 25% - to £176.25  as a gesture of goodwill. 
So, the overall invoice for the damage and the excess mileage reduced to £370.99.
Mr M was unhappy with PSAs response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said there was damage to the car that fell outside the British Vehicle and 
Rental Leasing Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. So, he thought PSA 
had acted reasonably by charging Mr M for this. And he said that PSA had subsequently 
agreed to waive the excess mileage charges and reduce the invoice to the £176.25 damage 
charges. So, he didnt think PSA needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. And he didnt agree that the damage he was being 
charged for was present when the car was returned. Because Mr M didnt agree with the 
investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards (including the BVRLA fair wear and tear 
guidelines), codes of practice, and what I consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr 
M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr M signed on 16 June 2016. This clearly says Mr M 
was required to keep the vehicle in good condition and that he would be solely liable for 
any loss or damage to the vehicle. It also detailed what was and wasnt acceptable for the 
car to be deemed in good condition. PSA also reminded Mr M of this, in writing, when he 
asked about VT. So, Im satisfied that Mr M wouldve been reasonably aware of his 
obligations under the agreement.
Ive also seen a copy of the collection agents inspection report dated 5 February 2019. This 
details damage to both front doors, the left quarter panel, both bumpers, and two of the alloy 
wheels. However, the damage to the bumpers wasnt chargeable. The report also has 
photographic evidence of the damage to the car. 
As PSA have already waived the charges to one of the doors and one of the wheels, my 
decision will focus on the damage still being charged for.
Left quarter panel
The agreement says that multiple dents in any one panel and any dent greater than 10 
millimetres in diameter on the bonnet, boot, roof, or above the body moulding lines on the 
side of the vehicle is considered abnormal. The BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines say 
that dents of 15mm or less are acceptable providing there are no more than two per panel 
and the paint surface is not broken  dents on the roof or swage line of any panel are not 
acceptable.  For clarity, a swage line is a crease or curvature in the side of the body used to 
create visual distinction.
The photographs supplied with the inspection report clearly show a dent in the swage line on 
the rear door, above the line of any body mouldings. And, from what I can see, the 
measurement tool in the photograph shows the damage to be around 20mm in width. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that this damage falls outside of the fair wear and tear 
guidelines, and PSA can charge for this.
Right front door
While the agreement doesnt specifically mention rust or corrosion, the BVRLA fair wear and 
tear guidelines say that there should be no rust or corrosion on any part of the bodywork or 
trim of the vehicle.
The photographs supplied with the inspection report show clear paint bubbling caused by 
rust/corrosion on the door. So, Im satisfied that this damage falls outside the fair wear and 
tear guidelines, and PSA acted reasonably by charging for this.
Right front alloy wheel
While the agreement doesnt specifically mention the alloy wheels, the BVRLA fair wear and 
tear guidelines say that any damage to the wheel spokes and the hub of the alloy wheel is 
not acceptable.
The photographs supplied with the inspection report clearly show damage to the right front 
alloy wheel. And, from what I can see, the measurement tool in the photograph shows the 
damage to be around 30mm in width. Because of this, Im satisfied that this damage falls 
outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines, and PSA can charge for this.
Given the above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I wont 
be asking PSA to reduce or waive any of the damage charges.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about PSA Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman