DRN-2766153
The complaint
Mr M complains that Phoenix Life Limited retained payments to an independent financial 
adviser (IFA) from his unit linked whole of life policy after hed told them he no longer used 
the IFA.  
What happened
Mr M took out a unit linked whole of life policy in 2001. The policy was initially administered 
by a company I will call SP, but Phoenix now administer the policy. Mr M has regularly 
exercised an indexation option within the policy. Mr M told Phoenix in December 2013 that 
he no longer used the services of an IFA. Phoenix stopped making servicing payments to 
the IFA shortly after they were told this.
Mr M first raised his concerns to Phoenix in November 2018. He said that since 2014 
Phoenix had continued to deduct the same level of costs from his monthly premium. And 
there was no sign that Phoenix had credited the payments back into his policies. Mr M asked 
Phoenix what had happened to these amounts and he didnt think Phoenix should keep the 
payments for themselves. Mr M explained to Phoenix hed seen the payments were now 
being credited to an account that wasnt an IFA or intermediary account.
Phoenix told Mr M theyd not paid any amount to an IFA since 2014. They said payment to 
an IFA is at Phoenixs own expense. Phoenix explained the offer price of each unit includes 
a management fee, and there is also a deduction from the fund each month in respect of the 
companys management and fund maintenance charges. And, if any part of the fund 
management and/or maintenance is undertaken by any other party, like an IFA, an 
appropriate fee is paid to the party and this is paid from the deductions. Phoenix said that if 
they were to add commission payments back into the fund, it would have to be done 
manually.
Mr M wasnt happy with the responses hed received from Phoenix and brought his 
complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things for him. Our Investigator 
thought Phoenix hadnt done anything wrong as theyd told Mr M of the payments that would 
be deducted, and that the amount paid to the IFA was taken from the deductions.
Mr M didnt agree with our Investigator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and Phoenix agree there have been no payments made to an IFA since 2014, so I 
havent dealt with this in my decision. However, Ive considered whether its fair and 
reasonable for Phoenix to retain the payments rather than apply a credit to Mr Ms fund. 
Ive reviewed the illustration provided to Mr M when he first took out the policy, and Ive 
looked at the key features document provided. There was an initial lump sum payment made 
to an IFA, and there was also an ongoing servicing payment made to the IFA who sold the 
policy. The illustration explained the deductions made to the policy include the cost of life 
cover, commissions, expenses, surrender penalties and other adjustments. In this case, 
Phoenix set out the deductions would be paid for by a nil allocation period of 36 months, 
after which units would be purchased in the chosen unit linked investment fund. There would 
be a bid-offer spread of between five and six percent when units were purchased, a fund 
management charge of 1.10% in the selected fund and an administration fee of £2.75 per 
month paid for by deduction of units. Life cover would be met by the cancellation of units. 
From this, it seems reasonable to conclude that the cost of paying the IFA to service the 
policy was taken from the charges within the plan.
Theres no facility within the terms and conditions for the charges to be changed simply 
because Mr M no longer uses an IFA. And I cant see that there has been any change to 
Phoenixs charging structure. Phoenix paid the IFA a regular payment, paid for out of the 
policy deductions, which they say remunerated the IFA for any servicing work on the policy. 
Mr M thinks its unfair for Phoenix to retain a portion of the charges that would otherwise 
have been paid to his IFA. Phoenix say that if a financial adviser is removed they provide 
some of the services or administration the adviser would otherwise have provided. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issues guidance relating to adviser charges, or 
commission. So, Ive considered if this applies in this specific case. In the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) 6.1A.5 it says A firm may receive an adviser charge that is 
no longer payable (for example, after the service it is received in payment for has been 
amended or terminated) provided the firm refunds any such payment to the retail client. In 
the case of Mr Ms policies, the IFA (the firm) was entitled to receive a payment for servicing 
the policy, and this was paid for out of deductions from the policy. This is clearly explained in 
the illustration Mr M was provided at the time he took out the policy. In this case both Mr M 
and Phoenix agree the IFA hasnt been paid to service the policy since the end of 2013. So, I 
dont consider COBS 6.1A.5 is applicable here. Phoenix didnt pay the IFA after the service it 
had been providing was terminated. And this is a different scenario to the crux of Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Having decided that COBS 6.1A.5 isnt applicable, Ive considered how the payment to the 
IFA were funded. In this case Im satisfied the payment to the IFA was paid for out of the 
deductions Phoenix applied to the policies. Indeed, the illustration provided confirms what 
the deductions were for and how they were paid for. And while the IFA was providing a 
service, Phoenix paid the IFA from the deductions they made. Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me the charges Phoenix applied to the policies changed and they remained as 
the illustration explained. 
Ive considered what Mr M has referred to as the three-stage process for payment of 
commission:
1. The extraction of commission from the policy, however achieved;
2.  Transferring the extracted amount to a Phoenix controlled account; and
3.  Payment from the controlled account to the designated intermediary.
Ive seen the amount Phoenix paid the IFA during the time the IFA was servicing the policy 
was 2.5% of the monthly premiums. And the last payment to the IFA was indeed 2.5% of the 
premium at the time. After the last payment had been made to the IFA, Phoenix credited 
future payments, which remained at 2.5% of the premium to another internal account. Ive 
also seen that the deductions to the policies Mr M held changed only marginally. And I 
consider this really gets to the crux of Mr Ms complaint; the deductions remained the same after Phoenix stopped paying the IFA.
Mr M says the illustration provided at the time he first bought the policy said, The 
deductions include the cost of death benefit, commissions, expenses, charges any surrender 
penalties and other adjustments. I acknowledge Mr M has a strong view that this confirms 
the cost of the payment to the IFA is a deduction, that if not paid to the IFA should be 
refunded to him. I cant tell Phoenix what charges they can apply on their policies, or how the 
deductions should be apportioned. But I can consider whether theyve acted fairly in 
apportioning the charges they take. I consider its important here that Phoenix havent 
changed the level of deductions applied to the policies in question. And, as Phoenix paid the 
IFA to carry out the servicing of the policies, it seems fair and reasonable to conclude that 
some of the servicing of the policies would revert to Phoenix if the IFA wasnt providing this 
service. Therefore, as the charging structure of the policies hasnt changed, Im not 
persuaded theres an obligation for Phoenix to pay Mr M the payments theyd been paying 
the IFA. 
The payment to the IFA was apportioned to an intermediary account and later paid to the 
IFA. But, I dont consider it was unfair for Phoenix to apportion the payments for the 
servicing of the policies to an internal account when the payment to the IFA stopped. As Mr 
M has pointed out, the deductions on the policies didnt change significantly when this 
happened. However, I consider that Phoenix took on the responsibility of the servicing for 
the policies, and it feels fair that they should retain the amount theyd paid someone else a 
regular amount to carry out this work.
Mr M has explained that after he raised his initial query with Phoenix he was told that they 
could refund the payments, but it would have to be a manual process. And in their 
communication with our Investigator, Phoenix told us this would impact on bonus rates they 
declared. Ive read these responses from Phoenix. 
Although Mr M believes Phoenix accepted they should pay the amounts deducted to him, Im 
not satisfied this is the case. Mr M says that in their letter to him dated 9 April 2019, Phoenix 
said:
If we were to add the commission payment back into your fund, this would have to be a 
manual process. This is because the units for all charges would need to be initially deducted 
from the fund, before manually calculating the units/charges for IFA fees, and then re-
entering them back onto the administration system each month. This would be additional 
maintenance on the fund and we would need to charge your fund for the time it would take 
us to manually input these changes which would be significantly higher than the actual 
amount of IFA Commission that is being paid. This would have a larger effect on your fund 
than would currently be the case by not reinvesting this.
In my opinion, this response isnt an acceptance theyve done anything wrong, but it is a 
confusing explanation of the process Phoenix would have to follow if the payments were to 
be refunded. And Im satisfied this explanation created a perception for Mr M that Phoenix 
could make the payment, but that it was too costly for them to consider. However, whilst Im 
satisfied it was unhelpful, Im not persuaded it was Phoenix telling Mr M they would refund 
the deductions.
In respect of the explanation that any refund would impact bonus rates for Mr M and other 
policy holders, Phoenix have accepted this was incorrect. Mr M had a unit linked investment 
and his units were never invested in a with-profits fund. Before I considered my decision, I 
asked Phoenix why they had referred to the investment as with-profits. They replied and 
accepted this was an error on their part. Phoenix offered an apology and £350 for the upset 
the confusing information they supplied had on Mr M. I put this offer forward to Mr M, but he rejected it.
Unfortunately, the reference to bonus rates meant that our Investigator referred to the units 
being within a with-profits fund. Although the miscommunication happened, it hasnt had a 
significant impact on the crux of the complaint, but I apologise for the confusion caused by 
our previous reference to a with-profits fund.
Putting things right
In summary, Phoenix continued to take the deductions it had set out in the illustration 
provided to Mr M. And although they had an agreement with the IFA to pay it regular 
payments to service the policy, when the IFA was removed from the policy some of this 
servicing would fall on Phoenix. So, I dont consider they acted unfairly in reapportioning 
what they had been paying to the IFA. And, in any case, theres nothing in the terms and 
conditions of the policies that I can rely on to tell Phoenix to refund any deductions to Mr M.
I appreciate that the offer of £350 made by Phoenix for the upset caused by the confusing 
information was made after our Investigator had issued their view. I considered whether I 
should issue a provisional decision as my decision refers to this offer. But Im satisfied both 
Mr M and Phoenix have had the chance to provide comments in this regard. I therefore 
consider it pragmatic to issue a final decision that deals with the crux of Mr Ms complaint 
and the offer Phoenix put forward. 
Im satisfied the offer of £350 made by Phoenix is fair and reasonable. I consider it reflects 
the confusion and frustration the incorrect information caused Mr M over several months.     
My final decision
My final decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr M the sum of £350.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman