DRN-3939877
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt pay him a switching bonus.
What happened
Mr W decided to switch his bank account provider and completed an account switch online 
in October 2022. However, he didnt receive the £150 switching bonus he was expecting so 
contacted Lloyds to complain.
Lloyds first said Mr W wasnt eligible as he has received a bonus of £125 for switching to 
one of their banking group in May 2022. But then later said that Mr W had received a 
switching bonus of £100 in October 2020 when he switched to a Lloyds account. And as the 
terms and conditions in relation to the offer excluded those that had previously received a 
switching bonus since April 2020 Mr W wasnt eligible for the £150 switching bonus.
Mr W brought his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong so didnt ask them to take any further action. As Mr W remained unhappy it 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds website detailed the offer that was available. Mr W says if it had been made clear he 
wouldnt be eligible he wouldnt have switched his account. Unfortunately, there isnt 
evidence which shows exactly what the website looked like at the time Mr W applied for the 
account switch. But Lloyds have provided details of what the offer terms and conditions said: 
£150 Switching offer explained, to qualify for the £150 switching offer you must:
Open one of the qualifying accounts below
Use the Current Account Switch Service to transfer and close your existing 
account held with another bank into the new account
You wont qualify for the offer if:
Youve received cash back for switching to Lloyds Bank or xxx since April 
2020.
Where theres a lack of evidence available, I need to make a decision on a balance of 
probabilities, what I consider having most likely happened. Whilst I dont have a copy of the 
specific webpage at the time of the incentive, Im satisfied that this information is more likely 
than not what was displayed. I say this because it isnt unusual for banks to apply terms like 
this as the incentive is generally there to create new business. And as it references back to 
2020 and is the same incentive information provided for more recent switching offers. I find it 
unlikely that these are new terms that have just been applied.
Ive seen evidence that Mr W received £100 switching bonus on 27 October 2020. So Im 
satisfied that he has received a switching bonus from Lloyds since April 2020 and therefore 
isnt eligible for the £150 switching bonus. It follows that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
ask Lloyds to pay the switching bonus to Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman