DRN-2015030
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about the service provided by Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin 
Money), after he received a text message about his credit card account.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr L was concerned when he received a text message on 6 March saying that he 
had contacted Virgin Money which wasnt the case. I can understand his concern 
about how and why hed received a text message with inaccurate information and 
note he took the correct action by contacting Virgin Money.
Mr L didnt pass the customer verification process. Given this I find that the agent 
was correct to say that they couldnt discuss the issue any further. The customer 
verification process is used to protect customers and while I understand that Mr L 
was concerned about his account possibly being compromised, I find Virgin Money 
acted correctly by not continuing when the verification process failed and instead 
asking Mr L to call back.
While Mr L didnt pass the verification process his account was blocked which meant 
no further transactions could take place. This was explained to him. I think this 
should have given Mr L the reassurance he needed that action had been taken to 
secure his account.
Mr L had also requested a replacement card, however given the issues with the 
verification process he was told that this couldnt be issued. I find that Virgin Money 
acted reasonably by not issuing a new card when it wasnt able to complete Mr Ls 
verification. 
While I appreciate that Mr L felt the agents werent providing a duty of care, I do not 
find that they did anything wrong but not continuing when Mr L didnt pass security. 
Mr L called again on 6 March and passed security. He was told that there wasnt a 
message sent to him that day and it was said that there were some system errors. 
Virgin Money has said that the system error comment may not have been helpful and 
has since said that there is no evidence that they sent the text to Mr L. Mr L said that 
he had asked for the card to be cancelled because of the text. It was reiterated that 
his account has been secured. He raised his complaint about the text and the agents 
that had spoken to him on the first call. While I appreciate Mr L felt he wasnt 
provided the service his should have been I think the actions taken to secure his 
account and raise his complaint were reasonable.
Mr L was contacted on 21 April to discuss his complaint. He reiterated that the text 
wasnt generated by any action by him and caused him alarm and distress. He noted 
that his card hadnt been replaced and was asked if he now wanted the card 
replaced. He didnt respond to this question but reiterated his concerns about the 
service he had received. He wanted the anxiety he had been caused to be reflected. 
This experience was very distressing for Mr L. However, Virgin Money has said that 
is has no record of sending the text message to Mr L and based on the calls I have 
listened to I find that the agents tried to assist him. Mr L was upset by the approach 
taken when he didnt pass security, but I find that the actions taken were reasonable. 
His account was secured, and I understand that it wasnt compromised. 
Mr L was told that he would receive a final response letter within eight weeks. I can 
see he raised his complaint with this service before the end of this period and his 
complaint was investigated. Therefore, I do not find that he has experienced any 
delay in his complaint being considered. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Virgin Money).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman