DRN-2713590
The complaint
Mrs K complains that a car she obtained through a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc was not of satisfactory quality and was misrepresented to her. The 
complaint is brought on her behalf by her son, who I will call Mr S.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated 3 February. 
I explained why I didnt think any misrepresentation that had taken place would have made a 
difference to Mrs K entering into the finance agreement. I said:
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mrs K. If it was, and if I thought Mrs K would not have proceeded 
with the deal if shed been aware of the true facts, then I would think Hitachi was 
responsible and Id ask it to take some further action.
I can see from the advert that the car was clearly advertised as having one previous 
owner. And I can see from the registration certificate that there have in fact been two 
previous owners. But Mr S says he saw the log book before his mother obtained the 
car and it showed one previous owner. I think its probably most likely that the second 
owner thats been recorded is the supplying garage. Even if this wasnt the case, Ive 
thought about whether any misrepresentation would have made a difference to 
Mrs K. In other words, whether I think Mrs K would have gone ahead with the fixed 
sum loan agreement if shed known there had been two previous owners. Ive not 
seen anything to show that this was of particular importance to Mrs K and I think this 
is reflected in the fact that she didnt complain about it until she referred the 
complaint to this service. I would have thought she reasonably would have 
complained at an earlier stage  to either the supplying garage, the credit broker or 
Hitachi  if this was something that would have stopped her proceeding with the 
finance agreement. On balance, I dont think having two previous owners instead of 
one would have changed her decision.  
I then considered whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I said:
The relevant law also says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied 
term that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this 
complaint, I would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
and so a breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are 
its age when it was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since it was 
supplied and how long after supply the fault materialised.
The car was around six years old when it was supplied in March 2019 and its 
mileage was around 28,000 miles.
Neither party has provided an independent report and as the repairs to the brakes 
have been carried out, it wont be possible now for an expert to say, with any 
certainty, if the brakes failed due to a fault which was present when the car was 
supplied. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
Mrs K complained about the brakes just over a month after the car had been 
supplied. It seems brake fluid was leaking, and a part was corroded. The car had 
been driven around 2,000 miles by this point and it was second hand so its 
reasonable to expect some wear and tear. But, even taking this into account, 
I wouldnt have expected the brakes to fail completely so soon after the car had been 
supplied, particularly bearing in mind its relatively high value.
For this reason I think, on balance, that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied.
And I went onto explain what I thought Hitachi needed to do to put things right. I said:
It follows that Hitachi is responsible for putting this right. But it doesnt automatically 
follow that it should accept Mrs Ks rejection of the car. Like our investigator, I havent 
seen evidence to show that Mrs K requested rejection within 30 days of obtaining the 
car. Mrs K didnt report the issue with the brakes until after 30 days. In cases like this, 
I would expect Hitachi to arrange and pay for repairs. But the repairs have already 
been carried out. Our investigator didnt think Hitachi needed to reimburse Mrs K for 
all the invoices Mr S has supplied because of discrepancies. So I have considered 
each of the invoices very carefully. In arriving at my decision, Ive taken into account 
that the supplying garage does not seem to have been very helpful when Mrs K 
reported the fault, and she felt she had no option but to arrange the repairs herself. In 
doing so, she and her son approached different third-party garages to try to keep the 
costs reasonable  which is why so e of the invoices are not VAT invoices and are 
handwritten. I dont think this automatically means Hitachi shouldnt reimburse them, 
if I find they are related to repairs required to fix the reported fault.
Invoice dated 16 May 2019 for £17.70
This was for the purchase of brake fluid. There are no details of the car on the 
invoice and the customer name has been crossed out and is illegible. But the invoice 
address is Mrs Ks and it seems reasonable that she purchased brake fluid because 
shed reported that the car had a brake fluid leak. And whilst topping up brake fluid 
would usually be considered as general maintenance, it was purchased here 
specifically to fix the reported fault. So I think its fair that Hitachi reimburse Mrs K for 
this invoice.
Invoice dated 24 May 2019 for £144
Hitachi reimbursed Mrs K for this invoice, by crediting her with £150.
Invoice dated 27 May 2019 for £120
The work listed on the invoice included fitting a new master cylinder and rear brake 
pipes. This was not a VAT invoice and was handwritten. But it relates to the fitting of 
parts purchased by Mrs K and required to fix the brake fluid leak. So I think its fair 
that Hitachi reimburse Mrs K for this invoice.Invoice dated 26 July 2019 for £322.27
This was for the purchase of a master cylinder, a bleeder valve and a brake line. The 
invoice is addressed to Mr S, but for Mrs Ks car. And the parts were used in the 
repairs as detailed above. Mr S has told us that the date on the invoice reflects the 
date of payment, which is why it post-dates the invoices for the work carried out. 
I think its fair that Hitachi reimburses Mrs K for this invoice.
Estimate dated 26 July 2019 for £750
This is a quotation for parts. Ive not seen evidence to show that Mrs K bought the 
parts so I dont currently find she should be reimbursed. But the parts quoted for do 
seem to have been fitted to the car  as evidenced by the next invoice. Mrs K may 
wish to provide evidence that she paid £750 and I will reconsider whether this should 
be reimbursed.
Invoice dated 28 May 2018 for £45
This invoice pre-dates when Mrs K took ownership of the car and is to supply and fit 
a helicoil and calliper. These are the parts quoted for in the estimate dated 26 July 
2019. So it seems, more likely than not, that this invoice has been mistakenly dated 
2018 instead of 2019. This was not a VAT invoice and was handwritten. If Mrs K can 
provide evidence that she paid for the parts listed in the estimate, then I will 
reconsider whether this invoice should be reimbursed.
Mrs K also complained that the air conditioning and the sun roof werent working 
properly. But Ive not seen independent evidence of these faults, so I dont find 
theres anything Hitachi is obliged to do to put these reported faults right.
I gave both parties the opportunity to provide any further evidence or comment in response 
to my provisional decision. In particular I invited Mrs K to provide evidence that shed paid 
the invoices for £750 and £45. But neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further evidence or information in response to my complaint, 
I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. 
Putting things right
Hitachi should pay Mrs K £453.97 to reimburse her for the repairs (£603.97, less the £150 it 
has already paid).
Mrs K hasnt provided evidence that she paid the sums of £750 for the estimate dated 
26 July 2019 and £45 for the invoice dated 28 May 2018. If Mrs K provides evidence to 
Hitachi  in the form of receipts or bank statements - that she paid this amount, Hitachi 
should reimburse her.
Hitachi has already paid Mrs K £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. In the 
circumstances, I consider this to be fair and reasonable.My final decision
My final decision is that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should:
1. Pay Mrs K £453.97.
2. On receipt of sufficient evidence from Mrs K that she has paid these amounts, pay her 
£750 for the estimate dated 26 July 2019 and £45 for the invoice dated 28 May 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman