DRN-4024083
The complaint
Mr V complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a claim 
he made on his buildings insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr V held a buildings insurance policy with RSA. When his property suffered an escape of 
water, he made a claim to RSA for the damage caused.
RSA declined Mr Vs claim. It said the damage had been caused gradually over time, which 
it said was excluded from the policy.
Mr V didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. She thought RSA fairly relied on the gradually operating exclusion 
in Mr Vs policy when it declined his claim.
Mr V didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He acknowledged 
there was damage caused by ongoing damp but said this wasnt what was being claimed for. 
He thought RSA should pay for the damage caused by the escape of water.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer Mr V was hoping 
for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr Vs policy covers him for damage caused by an escape of water. But it doesnt 
cover him for any damage that happens gradually. So, what I need to determine is 
whether the damage being claimed for was caused by the escape of water Mr V said 
occurred, or whether it happened gradually.
RSA has provided a report which shows the damage and the surveyor explains why 
they think it happened gradually over time. I understand Mr V disagrees with this, but 
I find it persuasive and havent been provided persuasive evidence to counter it.
Therefore, on balance Im more persuaded the damage happened gradually, and so 
it isnt covered by the policy.
Im satisfied RSA are acting fairly when relying on this term to decline the claim. 
Looking at the pictures provided, I think the damage was, or ought reasonably to 
have been evident to Mr V over a period of time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman