DRN-2588551
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC charged late payment fees and interest to 
his credit card after they had agreed not to, and that he felt harassed by the contact from 
them.
What happened
Mr H spoke with Tesco in March 2019 and told them he was experiencing some financial 
difficulties. Mr H and Tesco agreed that he should pay £88.40 per month over the next six-
months. The agreement said that Tesco wouldnt add any further interest to the account.
Tesco said they would send the account to their debt recovery department and would issue 
a default notice followed by a termination notice, which they did in July and August 
respectively. In October Mr H agreed a settlement figure with Tesco, and they wrote off the 
remaining balance. During the period from when the repayment plan was agreed until the 
card was terminated, Tesco applied £211.39 in interest.
Mr H complained to Tesco about the interest they had applied, and they agreed to pay him 
directly the sum of £211.39. They also paid him a further £25.00 and apologised for the 
distress and inconvenience this had caused him. Mr H wasnt happy with Tescos final 
response and brought his complaint to our service. When he did so, Mr H told us he also 
wanted to complain that Tesco hadnt taken into account his financial situation and the 
impact their contact had on him and he felt harassed by their contact.
Our investigator asked Tesco if they wished to respond to this complaint, but they consented 
to us looking at it without a response from them. Tesco did tell us that they had no records of 
outgoing calls to Mr H about the arrears on his account, and they directed us to review the 
statements and letters they had sent him since December 2018.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H and thought Tesco had applied interest to the 
card balance when they said they wouldnt, but they hadnt acted unfairly when applying the 
late payment charges in late 2018 and early 2019. Our investigator thought the refund of 
interest, the apology and the payment of £25.00 for the distress and inconvenience was a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
In respect of the contact from Tesco, our investigator didnt consider it was excessive and 
thought that it was reasonable for Tesco to send the letters they did because they have a 
regulatory requirement to do so.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He says that he suffered stress from the pressure to 
repay his debt with Tesco, and this caused him to go into debt elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr H will be disappointed, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator Ive decided the remedy provided by Tesco is fair and reasonable. I will now 
explain why.
Ive seen that Tesco applied charges to Mr Hs card account in November and December 
2018, and January 2019 when he made payments late. The preceding statements Tesco 
sent Mr H explain that if a payment to the card is made late, then a Late payment fee of 
£12.00 is chargeable, and Ive seen that Tesco applied these three late payment charges in 
line with the terms and conditions of the card. And because this information is also included 
with every statement, I believe Mr H would reasonably have been aware a charge would be 
made in these circumstances. So, I dont consider Tesco did anything wrong in this regard.
Mr H says he told Tesco he had financial difficulties in March 2019. He and Tesco entered 
into an agreement on 13 March 2019. The terms of this agreement arent disputed by Tesco 
or Mr H and are detailed in a letter Tesco sent Mr H on 13 March 2019. When a business is 
told about a consumers financial difficulties Id expect them to be sympathetic and positive. 
Im satisfied it was Tescos intention to be sympathetic and positive as they agreed not to 
add interest to the account for a period and said that they would review the account later. 
Unfortunately, as they have accepted, Tesco applied interest to Mr Hs card balance for 
three months when they said they wouldnt. 
Once Tesco accepted they had got this wrong, I wouldve expected them to deduct the 
interest they had applied from the card balance. However, they didnt realise they had made 
this error until Mr H pointed it out to them, by which time Mr H had settled the debt with 
Tesco. As Tesco had closed the account and written-off about 20% of the card balance, they 
made the decision to pay the interest theyd overcharged direct to him.
Im satisfied that what Tesco did here was fair and reasonable. I considered whether they 
should have paid Mr H interest on the sum they paid him, but I consider this would have 
been unreasonable under the circumstances and I will explain why. If Tesco had realised 
their error at the time the account was settled, it wouldve been reasonable for them to 
deduct the interest from the account balance and then agree the settlement figure with Mr H. 
So, I dont believe they wouldve refunded the £211.39 to Mr H direct. Tesco had already 
written-off 20% of Mr Hs account balance, so I consider their decision to pay this amount 
direct to Mr H, rather than paying it to the card balance and then paying Mr H a proportion 
plus some interest, is a fair and reasonable way of dealing with this matter.
I accept that this matter caused Mr H some distress and inconvenience, but Im satisfied the 
apology and payment of £25.00 Tesco provided is also fair and reasonable in this case.
In respect of Mr Hs complaint that he felt harassed by Tesco, the evidence Ive seen 
supports that Tesco dealt with Mr H mostly by letter. Tesco have told us that they dont have 
any records of making outgoing calls to Mr H about his arrears. Mr H hasnt provided details 
of calls Tesco made to him, but he says that he did speak to Tesco about his arrears.
Ive read the correspondence Mr H and Tesco have provided and I can empathise that this 
must have been a very difficult time for Mr H. I accept it wouldve been stressful for him as 
he had to look for a better paid job to help him find a way to pay off his debts, but Im not 
persuaded the actions Tesco took were unfair. I do accept that Mr H may well have felt 
harassed when he received the correspondence about his card account from Tesco. 
However, once Mr H told Tesco that he was experiencing financial difficulties, I can see that 
they were sympathetic and agreed a repayment plan with him. Its unfortunate that they then 
applied interest after agreeing not to, but Ive addressed this earlier in my decision. The repayment plan letter in March 2019, signposted Mr H to organisations that could offer 
help with managing his debts; the default notice issued in July provided similar signposting 
information along with a Financial Conduct Authority information sheet that provided help 
and advice; and, the termination letter in August included the same signposting. Tesco has 
regulatory responsibility to provide information to Mr H regarding his account, and although 
the way in which this information is communicated can be uncomfortable to read, the letters 
Ive seen from Tesco dont persuade me they harassed Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman