DRN-2898567
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains about delays in its application for 
borrowing with Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank).
The complaint is brought by Fs directors, but they are represented by the company 
secretary, Ms H.
What happened
F applied to Clydesdale for a loan of £25,000 on 11 March 2020.
Clydesdale advised F that the borrowing would need to be in the form of an overdraft. And 
it was in the early stages of proceeding with an application when the government 
announced the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) Scheme. Clydesdale 
emailed F on 23 March and said that a CBIL would be the best way forward. So it was 
agreed that a request would be referred to the banks specialist team.
Fs CBIL application was picked up by the specialist team on 17 April. But around this 
time, the government was preparing to introduce a new loan scheme (the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme) under which all applications of loans for £50,000 or less had to be 
arranged. So an application for a Bounce Back Loan of £25,000 was logged for F on 
11 May 2020.
Clydesdale approved the application and F drew down a loan of £25,000 on 19 May.
F complained to Clydesdale about the time it had taken to provide the funds and said that 
the delay led it to miss out on a job that wouldve yielded a gross profit of £25,000.
Clydesdale said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said that thered been a short delay in 
providing the Bounce Back Loan, but this was due to difficulty in verifying information 
within the application. It also highlighted the impact of the pandemic and related lockdown 
measures from 23 March, which had affected the banks operations.
Unhappy with Clydesdales response, Ms H referred Fs complaint to us and it was 
reviewed by one of our investigators. While she didnt think the bank was responsible for 
any unreasonable delay in providing the funds, she thought it couldve kept F better 
updated  noting that Ms H had chased things up on a number of occasions. So for the 
inconvenience caused, she recommended that Clydesdale pay F compensation of £150.
Clydesdale accepted our investigators recommendation but F didnt. Ms H maintained 
that delays on the banks part had meant that F missed out on a business opportunity, as 
it hadnt received the funds in time to proceed.
So with no resolution to the matter, it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
It took a little over two months to arrange the borrowing that F was looking for  with its 
initial application for an overdraft made on 11 March and the Bounce Back Loan being 
drawn down on 19 May. I appreciate the urgency on Fs part and I can see why it is 
unhappy that things took as long as they did. But having reviewed the timeline of events 
and how Clydesdale handled Fs requests during this time, I dont think the bank was 
responsible for any excessive or unreasonable delays.
While F had initially wanted to borrow £25,000 through a loan, Clydesdale was unwilling 
to lend in that way. That was a decision it was entitled to make. So on 18 March it told F 
that it would proceed with an overdraft application, and over the days that followed it 
gathered some of the information it needed from F (such as cashflow projections and 
identification documents).
However, a few days later, the government launched the CBIL Scheme. Given this, the 
bank directed F to make an application for a CBIL instead. This was reasonable  the 
terms of the CBIL were highly likely to be preferential to anything Clydesdale would 
otherwise have offered F.
There was then a slight delay in progressing the CBIL application, which wasnt picked up 
for review by the relevant team until 17 April. I can see that this was longer than ideal for 
F and appreciate why it may seem unacceptable. But I think its fair to bear in mind the 
unprecedented circumstances of the time. Clydesdale says the level of demand for 
borrowing under the Scheme was extraordinary, meaning it couldnt review applications in 
line with its usual timescales. The bank had to roll the Scheme out at short notice, while 
also dealing with the wider impact of the pandemic on its operations. In that context, I 
dont think the three-week timeframe that F experienced was unreasonable.
By the time Clydesdale was in a position to move forward with Fs CBIL application, the 
government was rolling out a further loan scheme, the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. And, 
under the Scheme rules, this meant that borrowing of the amount F wanted could no 
longer be obtained under the CBIL Scheme, and had to be provided by way of a Bounce 
Back Loan. Clydesdale had no discretion in that  so it had to redirect F accordingly.
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme was duly launched on 4 May. F obtained its loan a 
couple of weeks later, on 19 May. Taking into account the circumstances of the time, as 
noted above, I dont think this was an unreasonable delay either.
As Ive not found that Clydesdale caused any unreasonable delays in providing F with the 
funds it was seeking, it follows that I cant fairly hold it responsible for any losses that F 
may have incurred while it was waiting.
I do, though, think that there were times when Clydesdale couldve done more to keep F 
informed as to what was going on  in particular, with its CBIL application. I can see that F 
was put to some inconvenience in having to chase things up due to the lack of information 
about what would happen and when. Clydesdale has accepted this and offered to pay F
£150. I think this is fair compensation in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require 
Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) to pay F compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman