DRN-1479017
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. Mr B completed an 
application form for a Barclaycard in a Barclays branch and the policy was added to his card 
at the same time.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed. 
Mr B mainly says that he had adequate sick pay through work and savings. So PPI wasnt 
something he wouldve wanted or needed. He thinks he must have ticked for PPI 
accidentally. 
Mr B asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I dont know what mightve been discussed about the PPI. But Mr B had to say on the 
application form completed if he wanted PPI and its been ticked to say he required it. 
I've taken into account what Mr B says about the way he thinks the tick for PPI was put on 
the form. But what Mr B says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. In order to do this, I need to see information that shows Barclays did something 
wrong. Looking at the application, I think the form Mr B completed to have PPI was 
reasonably clear. And I cant fairly say Barclays did anything wrong when it added PPI to 
Mr Bs account after hed indicated on the application that he wanted it. 
I can understand why Mr B mightve forgotten some details from the time of sale as this was 
a long time ago. But I think its likely that Mr B wouldve been able to see at the time that the 
application form showed that having the PPI was optional - and he chose to take it, signing 
the completed application at the end to confirm the information on the form. 
Barclays says it advised Mr B to take out PPI and I think it was suitable for him. Mr B was eligible for the policy. He mentioned that he wouldve had full sick pay for at least 
6 months from his employer if he was off work sick. But the policy wouldve paid more than 
his minimum credit card repayments for longer - up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Mr B mightve also had some 
additional costs if he was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been 
a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
The policy wouldve also protected Mr Bs credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
I dont know if Mr B would've always had savings he could rely on to pay his credit card. And 
the policy could've paid out for longer than the amount of savings Mr B has mentioned if hed 
had to depend on these to pay his monthly outgoings when he wasn't able to work. 
So I think PPI offered Mr B worthwhile benefits in his particular circumstances.  
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Bs situation. 
Its possible some of the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr B chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he 
appears to have wanted it at the time, even if hes forgotten this now. The policy seems to 
have been affordable for him  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances 
changed or he didnt want to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy. So I dont find hes lost out as a result of anything Barclays did wrong  
and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman