DRN-4305034
The complaint
Mr T complained that Interactive Investor Services Limited (Interactive) contributed to the 
delays he experienced when trying to move his pension funds.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr T decided to move his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) from 
Provider B to a new platform, and ultimately, he chose to transfer to Interactive.
Mr T says he chose to move all of his SIPP investments into cash before making a transfer 
instead of making an in-specie transfer for each of the funds as wanted to be out of the 
market for the shortest possible time, and he wanted to change some of his holdings at the 
same time. He says hed been told by various providers that a cash transfer should normally 
be completed within two to three weeks, whereas an in-specie transfer could take between 
eight to twelve weeks.
Once Mr Ts funds were transferred, they were reinvested immediately. It is the delay in 
completing the transfer that is the main thrust of Mr Ts complaint.
Having converted his investments to cash, Mr T made the transfer request to Interactive on
Wednesday 26 August 2020. The funds arrived with Interactive on 14 October 2020. This 
was more than seven weeks after the transfer request. Mr T re-invested over 15 and 16 
October 2020.
Chronology
Mr T made the transfer request to Interactive on Wednesday 26 August 2020. When 
Interactive first responded to Mr Ts complaint, they accepted Mr T had confirmed on 26 
August 2020 that his full transfer sum was not crystallised. 
Interactives transfer form asked the question Is the pension in drawdown? and provided 
the choice of three options as an answer. Mr T selected the option that his pension was not 
in drawdown. Its not entirely clear if Mr T completed this or it was completed by a 
representative following Mr Ts instruction. This makes no difference to my thinking. The 
other options asked Mr T to select if the pension to be transferred was entirely in drawdown 
(fully crystallised) or partially in drawdown (partially crystallised). Mr T suggests the form was 
somewhat ambiguous. 
On 27 August 2020 Mr T contacted Interactive having looked at the copy of his application 
summary. He queried some information and added that his only withdrawals thus far had 
been from the tax-free cash element, but he was likely to start drawing down further in 2021 
and thought this may involve taxable sums. He asked Interactive if any of the information 
caused an issue with the transfer application summary.
Interactive suggest this communication was completely separate to Mr Ts transfer 
application and did not need to be referred to their transfer department.
Provider B received an electronic transfer request via the Origo system on 27 August 2020 
from Interactive. 
Interactive previously told us they submitted Mr Ts request to their administrators and the 
transfer request had then been forwarded to Provider B on Wednesday 2 September 2020. It 
does not appear to me this date can be right given the other information available.
Provider B picked up the transfer request on 31 August 2020, when it was noticed the 
transfer had not been correctly requested. The transfer was requested as a pre-pension but 
Mr Ts SIPP involved both pre and post pension pots (uncrystallised and crystallised) and so 
they needed Interactive to submit a request with the correct details.
Provider B added a comment onto the Origo system that Mr Ts fund contained 
uncrystallised and crystallised funds and that the transfer needed to be resubmitted. 
Provider B said an alert had also been added to Origo to let Interactive know they had left a 
comment. This is not agreed by Interactive, they dont think what was added ought to have 
alerted them or their administrators. It appears to be agreed that the status was not changed 
on the system, and it was left at being In progress. It is also agreed that Interactive did not 
contact Provider B or their administrators directly.
Interactive say no alert was added. They say Provider B failed to follow Origos guidance 
and they ought to have added a note to say Mr Ts account could not be found as the details 
didnt match and this would have allowed their administrators to see the request had been 
rejected and why.
It is agreed by Provider B that they ought to have updated Interactives request on the Origo 
system to being out of scope, to ensure Interactive knew the request was declined and that 
the information was needed as quickly as possible. It was on this basis Provider B upheld Mr 
Ts complaint when they looked into it earlier in 2023.
I previously commented that it was not clear to me why the transfer request submitted by 
Interactive referred to Mr Ts SIPP being pre-pension, since it appeared Interactive knew in 
advance of the request being submitted that this was not an accurate reflection of Mr Ts 
SIPP position. Interactive say the knowledge was held in a different department to that 
dealing with the transfer.
Interactive initially upheld Mr Ts complaint because they said Provider B had contacted their 
administrators on 31 August 2020, and this information was not provided to Interactive by 
their administrators for four weeks. So it might be thought Interactive accept their 
administrators saw the note on 31 August 2020. I previously suggested it might said that 
when the administrators saw Provider Bs note, the administrators ought to have done 
something sooner even if they didnt know they needed to submit a new request. Interactive 
do not accept this.
On 2 September 2020 Interactives administrators accessed (and one assumes looked) at 
the Origo system and changed the status on the transfer request to waiting on ceding 
scheme.
Mr T contacted Interactive on Monday 28 September 2020 asking for an update. He 
indicated he was concerned about loss from being out of the market. 
Interactive suggest it was not Mr Ts contact that caused them to act. They say that their 
administrators had conducted an automatic review of the transfer request on 29 September 
2020 as nothing had happened on the request for 20 working days.However previously Interactive told us that on 28 September 2020 Provider B told Interactive 
Mr Ts pension sum contained crystallised and uncrystallised pots and Provider B wanted 
some information. And Interactive said it was this that caused them to contact Mr T the next 
day to ask for the splits. Mr T provided this information the next day 29 September 2020 and 
this was sent to Interactives administrators by Interactive on 30 September 2020. It was 
forwarded to Provider B on 7 October 2020. It is not clear if an alert was added to the Origo 
system by Interactives administrators on 7 October 2020.
I previously queried why it took so long for the information to be provided to Provider B. 
Interactive say five days is their standard service time.
I also queried why it would be that Provider B asked for the split of the funds since they were 
the providers at the time. Having looked at the data provided, it does not appear to me this is 
what Provider B asked for. They had asked for a resubmission. It was Interactive who 
decided to ask Mr T for the split.
Provider B confirmed to Mr T that Interactive had contacted them on 12 October 2020 
requesting an update on the transfer. At this point Provider B checked the Origo system and 
saw Interactive had sent information on the pre and post pension split on 7 October 2020. 
Provider B let Interactive know they had made an error on the Origo system and told 
Interactive they needed a new transfer request from Interactive.
Mr T received a message from Interactive on around 13 October 2020. They said:
Your case handler has spoken with [Standard Life]  who advised that there had been an 
issue with the Origo request. They are hoping to backdate the request as it was their mistake 
and they mentioned an estimate of 5 working days. It has also been escalated on our side 
and we are keeping a very close eye of the progress.
On 13 October 2020 Standard Life checked the system but a new request had not been 
received from Interactive. 
Standard Life have told us that because Provider B had confirmed on 7 October 2020 their 
willingness to accept the pre and post pension pots on transfer, Provider B made a business 
decision to proceed with the transfer in the absence of a new request.
This meant the plan was transferred on 13 October 2020 with a value of £600,543.03. This 
completed into Interactives account on 14 October 2020.
Interactive told us they submitted a new request on 14 October 2020 and the transfer was 
completed and credited to Mr Ts account on the 15 October 2020. Based on further 
information provided these dates were inaccurate. Until Mr T recently provided a print-out 
from his SIPP it also remained unclear when funds were invested. This print-out confirmed 
what Mr T had previously told us, that his funds were re-invested over the 15 and 16 October 
2020.
Complaint history
Mr T complained to Interactive. Based on what he knew at the time he did not think Provider 
B had done anything wrong and he did not complain to them. Interactive upheld Mr Ts 
complaint. They thought things could have been completed more quickly and the service 
they had provided could have been better overall.
Interactive initially upheld Mr Ts complaint because Interactive had contacted Interactives 
administrators on 31 August 2020 to ask for the value of Mr Ts crystallised and 
uncrystallised pots, but this information was not provided to Interactive for four weeks. Initially Interactive said they could not compensate Mr T for the loss of any potential
trading opportunity but they accepted they did not return calls when they ought to have done. 
Interactive offered Mr T £100 which they arranged to be paid into his trading account.
Mr T didnt accept this offer and complained to this service. He shared information from a 
third party about his complaint. This information records that Interactives offer of £100 had 
been increased to just over £4,000 when the third party intervened.
Mr T more recently thought Interactive had not made this increased offer to him but Im 
satisfied having now seen communications from the time that it was. 
Mr T said the process and delay had been very stressful. Mr T didnt think Interactives offer 
was sufficient and said he thought his loss ought to be calculated on the basis of the transfer 
taking four weeks.
History of this case at this service
This service went on to consider Mr Ts complaint against Interactive. In August 2022 I 
issued a provisional decision explaining I intended to uphold Mr Ts complaint and setting out 
what I intended to say Interactive must do to put Mr T as close to the position he ought to 
have been in and redress any loss. 
Mr T accepted my provisional decision, albeit he noted further information. He also told us 
that he didnt think Interactive paid him the £100. More recently Mr T has identified he was 
paid the £100, but he has highlighted Interactive said this was for their failures around 
returning calls.
In early September 2022 Interactive told us their administrators had discovered new 
information which they thought was likely to change the outcome as it demonstrated Origo 
practices had not been followed. Having considered what was provided, a complaint was 
made to Provider B by Mr T.
On 22 February 2023 Provider B issued their response to Mr Ts complaint. They upheld his 
complaint. Provider B apologised because they had not made the addition to the Origo 
system correctly. Provider B thought they were responsible for the transfer being delayed as 
they failed to update the Origo system in the way they ought to have done.
They indicated they intended to contact Interactive to complete a price comparison on the 
basis of assuming the transfer had completed on 31 August 2020 instead of 14 October 
2020. This would enable Provider B to rectify any loss.
Interactive confirmed the value of Mr Ts plan on 31 August 2020 (when still held by them) 
had been £600,543.04. They repeated their apology and also indicated they intended to pay 
Mr T £250 to reflect the failures in their service.
Provider B say the information provided by Interactive didnt make sense, in particular they 
highlighted the use of a valuation that didnt match the transfer value Provider B transferred 
to Interactive and the use of prices on 13 October 2020 (which was before the transfer 
completed). They say they went back with queries. Interactive say they have provided 
material to Provider B. 
Preliminary provisional decisionI went on to issue a preliminary provisional document. This document was sent to all parties. 
In it I set out a summary and indicated that I intended to uphold Mr Ts complaints to some 
extent. I summarised my previous approach to redress (when there was a single complaint 
against Interactive) and invited further information to enable me to decide matters in respect 
of liability. I shared responses with all parties to enable them to provide any further evidence 
including submissions.
For ease of reference I have summarised the main thrust of all responses below.
Provider B
Provider B let us know the preliminary provisional decision had been helpful as it had 
provided information they did not know. As a result their view had changed, and they now 
thought there was shared responsibility between themselves and Interactive.
Provider B sent us further information and confirmed they had not used the Origo system as 
they ought to have done having received the transfer request on 28 August 2020. 
Provider B accept that when they added a comment and an alert to Origo on 31 August 2020 
they ought instead to have marked the request as out of scope.
However having now seen that Interactive were aware on 26 August 2020 that the funds to 
be transferred included uncrystallised funds, they say there was a failure by Interactive to 
submit the transfer request with the right information. Provider B say it was Interactives 
responsibility (or their administrator for whom they are responsible) to make sure they had 
the necessary information before submitting a transfer request, and their responsibility to 
ensure it was accurate.
Provider B tend to think that since Interactive and/ or their administrator saw or would have 
seen the note added to Origo on 31 August 2020, they ought to have acted sooner as they 
would have known more information was required. When Provider B added their comment 
on 31 August 2020, they say they also added an alert and so a report would have been 
generated highlighting this.
They note that on 29 September 2020 Interactive were aware of the need to provide 
information. Interactive added a comment on 7 October 2020 to confirm the split and then 
chased the transfer on 12 October 2020.
Provider B made a business decision on 13 October 2020 to accept the transfer request 
based on Interactives comment of 7 October 2020 given the delay. The payment was 
received by Interactive the next day (14 October 2020).
Provider B say they asked Interactive to give them a calculation assuming the payment had 
been received on 31 August 2020 so that there could be a loss assessment for Mr T.
They submit that the date of 31 August 2020 is a realistic date for the transfer to have been 
processed and to have then been received and completed on 1 September 2020, had the 
right information been provided to Origo on 28 August 2020.
Provider B want Interactive to show what units were bought with the original transfer sum, 
and the relevant prices (which will need to also include the confirmation of the actual date of 
purchase). 
Provider B accept they could have mitigated the error (the incorrectly completed form) on 28 
August 2020 by correctly marking the request as out of scope on the Origo system on 31 August 2020. But accept they cant say what would have happened thereafter, only what 
might be considered most likely. As such they think liability for any loss can and ought to be 
shared between themselves and Interactive. 
Interactive
Interactive say that separately to Mr Ts transfer request being submitted to Origo, Mr T was 
updated via secure message that his SIPP was set up. Mr T replied to this message with 
what they characterise as three general questions. They accept the third one set out that he 
had only drawn tax-free cash from his Interactive SIPP to date with a remaining tax-free sum 
still held there. He said he intended to start to draw taxable sums from 2021 and possibly 
before he had exhausted the tax-free element and he wanted to know if this (or anything he 
was asking) caused an issue in terms of the transfer application summary.
Interactive accept this information was not consistent with the transfer form where they say 
Mr T advised his SIPP was 100% un-crystallised. But they also say this ought not to be 
understood to be an instruction to update his transfer request nor that this was a realisation 
that he had submitted the incorrect information. Interactive say this was a simple 
conversation with one of their customer service representatives and they would not expect 
their representative to forward the interaction to their Transfer Team in case there had been 
an error on their transfer form.
Interactive say their administrators only came across the note of 31 August 2020 when they 
reviewed the transfer in-line with their usual process. It has also been said this was due to 
an internal review of the dormant transfer They dont accept it was Mr T chasing Interactive 
on 28 September 2020 that caused the delay to be identified.
Interactive note they are an execution-only service and dont consider it their role to compare 
information recently provided by a customer unless asked by the customer to do so.
Interactive consider it was the responsibility of Provider B to have raised an Origo alert on 31 
August 2020, and also say Provider B ought to have contacted Interactive directly following 
what they ought to have perceived as a rejected transfer, again as part of the agreed Origo 
process.
Interactive say that Mr T told them on 29 September 2020 about the splits in his pension 
funds, and it was provided to Provider B on 7 October 2020. They say their service 
agreement is for such actions to be completed in five working days. Here they say it was 
shared on the sixth working day.
Interactive agree they contacted Provider B on 12 October 2020 to ask for an update and 
continue to say it was at this stage Provider B identified the information had been provided to 
them on 7 October 2020. They say a new transfer request was then submitted on 14 
October 2020 and they say it completed on 25 October 2020. This date cannot be right given 
what has been said and agreed previously.
Interactive feel they are being unfairly punished for Provider Bs error and for not doing 
something they dont think they had any responsibility to do. They say that initially they did 
not realise that Provider B hadnt used Origo properly.
Interactive think they have provided the transaction history and share prices for the dates 
requested by Provider B.
Interactive dispute what is said by Provider B about whether their note of 31 August 2020 
created an alert for their administrators on the system. They say it didnt. In any event they say the point of Origo is that when used correctly it simplifies the administration of such 
activities.
Mr T
Mr T let us know that in general terms he agreed with my preliminary provisional decision. 
Mr T considers that the options on Interactives transfer form were somewhat ambiguous. He 
thinks any error ought to have been picked up by Interactives transfer team, he says they 
ought to have checked the form properly and referred to him if there was any uncertainty or 
queries. Given Interactives undertaking that a cash transfer ought to take two to three 
weeks, he thinks this puts an onus on Interactive to properly oversee the process.
Further Provisional decision
On 11 July 2023 I issued a further provisional decision that confirmed why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ts complaint in part. I concluded Mr Ts transfer did take longer than it needed to 
have done, and that Mr T would have invested at any earlier date, had the transfer been 
completed, as it ought to have done, at an earlier date. I indicated that whilst I felt the 
transfer completion date proposed by Provider B seemed somewhat optimistic, I would 
adopt this for the loss calculation subject to further submissions. 
I thought that all parties had contributed to or played a part in the delay. However, and 
having taken everything into account, I thought that if any loss was identified as having been 
suffered by Mr T, on completion of the loss calculation exercise, this ought to be split and 
shared between Provider B and Interactive. The split being 50% each of any loss. I also set 
out what needed to be paid by each entity to reflect the distress and inconvenience.
I thought the loss calculation ought to be completed using the actual SIPP information and 
that a benchmark was not required.
Responses
Mr T queried if the proposed date of 1 September 2020 for the loss calculation was realistic, 
since the request had only been made on 26 August 2020 and he had believed the transfer 
would take two to three weeks. He noted I had previously proposed to use the date of 17 
September 2020.
Mr T also sent us information from his SIPP to confirm the investments made on 15 and 16 
October 2020, and noted this information would be freely available to Interactive.
Provider B accepted my provisional decision, albeit they noted that technically my decision in 
respect of the complaint made against them ought not to be considered an uphold, given 
they had accepted error on their part and made an offer which I did not disagree with. They 
could not see why a loss calculation could not be completed using the actual dates of 
transfer and investment, and the performance of Mr Ts SIPP and confirmed acceptance of 
the approach proposed.
Provider B asked that Interactive provide the original contract notes generated from the initial 
investments or a system generated transactions statement so they can verify figures.
Interactive think the facts and evidence they provided have been disregarded. They think 
they are being held liable for not identifying errors on the part of others, so they dont agree 
with my provisional decision. They continue to say Mr T was at fault, and his error was 
followed by the Provider B not following the guidelines for use of the Origo system. But in the 
circumstances, they will agree to settle this matter as I set out.Interactive also sent us a copy of emails between themselves and Provider B. The 
exchanges from both parties refer to prices, investments, and figures from 13 October 2020 
amongst other information. There is also some discussion about differences in value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts transfer took longer than it needed to have done. Had the transfer
been completed, as it ought to have done, at an earlier date it is agreed that Mr T would 
have invested at any earlier date. 
The overall delay was caused to some extent by all parties, however having taken 
everything into account if any loss is identified, having completed the loss calculation 
exercise, this ought to be split between Provider B and Interactive. The split will be 50% 
each of any total loss sum to be paid to Mr T by Provider B and the other 50% to be paid to 
Mr T by Interactive.
I consider this is a fair approach to liability and to address any loss occasioned to Mr T. It 
cannot be a precise calculation when both Provider B and Interactive made errors or are 
responsible for oversights, which taken altogether led to delay. But I consider this approach 
is reasonable having carefully balanced everything that happened and ought to have 
happened.
I accept the delay was not egregious. However Mr T valued an efficient and quick transfer 
and had chosen to liquidate his funds to speed up the process and minimise delay. To some 
extent he was accepting a risk when it came to waiting for the transfer to complete before he 
was able to re-enter the market. Mr T hoped his transfer would complete in two or three 
weeks, instead it took over seven weeks.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and
good industry practice at the time. I have carefully considered all the submissions made thus 
far. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I make my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I look at what evidence I have, and the surrounding 
circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or ought to have happened.
I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct. This service looks to resolve individual 
complaints between a consumer and a business informally. Should we decide that 
something has gone wrong we ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, 
as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the problem or error hadnt 
occurred.
Provider B say they ought to have followed good practice on 31 August 2020 and instead of 
adding a note about the request that had been submitted was wrong they ought to have 
declined the request Interactive submitted. Provider B accept their failure to decline the 
request caused delay. I agree. 
Ive seen the Origo guidance is that before a party creates an alert, they ought to contact the 
organisation by phone to discuss or raise awareness of any urgent issues with a transfer 
request. And Ive been told that Interactive say most firms would not check notes unless 
there is an alert, or it comes up by chasing.However Interactive knew that Mr Ts SIPP included pre and post pension funds in August 
2020. Ive seen what Interactive say about Mr Ts enquiry being made to a separate 
representative and not needing to be referred to their transfers department. I find that 
somewhat surprising given that I think its fair to understand the thrust of his queries includes 
a concern about whether the information he is sharing will impact on the transfer request.  
So its reasonable to consider Interactive contributed to the delay by failing to effectively 
identify and deal with Mr Ts query and I think that had they done so its likely a resubmission 
could have followed within a short time. 
In addition Interactives administrators ought to have known on 31 August 2020, and 
certainly by the time they updated the system and the status of the transfer on 2 September 
2020, that Provider B needed the application to be resubmitted and this ought to have been 
passed to Interactive. I dont accept Provider Bs failure to follow Origo guidance removes 
any expectation that Interactive or their administrators to have done something here. Even in 
late September Interactive and their administrators misunderstood the request for 
resubmission it appears.
I have thought carefully about whether I ought to allow for some degree of responsibility to 
lie with Mr T. It was his error on the form (he indicated that all his funds were uncrystallised) 
that was at the root of the delay here. 
Mr Ts transfer was not advised, he chose to do it and caused it to proceed and was the 
person responsible for giving the instructions. I think he has sufficient knowledge and 
understanding to have understood that he had crystallised some of his pension funds. And 
when he indicated that all his funds were uncrystallised on the form originally submitted, this 
set out of the chain of the events and errors that led to the delay. I am in no doubt his 
indication on the form was the result of human error. Its clear Mr T wanted the transfer to 
complete and wanted this to happen as soon as possible. But I have needed to consider 
whether I ought to adjust my findings on liability to take account of Mr Ts error.
It appears to me firstly that the subsequent errors and oversights that I have identified lie 
with the two other parties, are sufficiently distinct and demonstrate service failings or things 
that ought to have been done differently.
In addition Ive concluded that Mr Ts actions after he first spoke with Interactive, mitigated 
(or ought to have mitigated) the impact of the errors and oversights. He called Interactive 
having reviewed the form completed for his transfer and had his queries about his fund 
status been properly addressed, that form might never have been submitted. I think it was 
when Mr T chased Interactive on 28 September 2020 that the Origo over-sights were 
identified. I dont accept that Interactives administrators picked up the Origo system note of 
31 August 2020 on 29 September 2020 due to their own processes.
As such I have concluded I dont need to adjust the calculation to take account of Mr Ts 
error.
In the circumstances I dont think it was reasonable that it took until 7 October 2020 for 
Interactive to provide (via their administrators) Mr Ts information. In any event the 
information they provided was not needed by Provider B. Provider B knew what the splits 
between crystalised and uncrystallised funds were, they were the providers. They had asked 
on 31 August 2020 for a resubmission of the application because the funds contained a mix 
(which was not what the transfer form had said). So it ought to have been reasonably 
understood by Interactive and/ or their administrators this was what Provider B wanted.
It isnt clear to me why Provider B didnt realise until 12 October 2020 (when chased by 
Interactive), that the Origo system had been updated on 7 October 2020. In other words the nature of any alert added by Interactive or their administrators on 7 October 2020. This does 
not change my thinking. But on 12 October 2020 Provider B realised their original August 
error with the Origo system, and that this meant the original transfer request still needed to 
be declined and cancelled and a new one submitted. 
On 13 October 2020 Provider B checked the system, but a new request had not been 
received from Interactive. I accept that Provider B then acted to mitigate the impact of the 
errors by taking a business decision to proceed with the transfer in the absence of a new 
request, and they relied on Interactives confirmation of 7 October 2020 of their willingness to 
accept the pre and post pension pots on transfer to do this.
Ive seen Interactive say they submitted a new transfer request to Provider B on 14 October 
2020. I havent seen anything that makes me think Provider B accept this happened. In any 
event by this stage Provider B had already progressed the transfer.
I havent understood why there has been inconsistency in the information provided about 
when the funds were received by Interactive. This is information that ought to be easily 
evidenced. Based on everything I have seen it was on 14 October 2020 (Provider B having 
progressed the transfer the day before). 
I also do not understand why there were problems and inconsistencies in the information 
provided about when Mr T went on to reinvest and how. This is again information that ought 
to have been easily evidenced with contemporaneous information. Interactive must be wrong 
to have provided unit prices and investments for 13 October 2020 to Provider B and having 
seen the emails it looks to me as if Provider B also referred to 13 October 2020. 
Mr T previously told us he invested over 15 and 16 October 2020. He has provided 
confirmation of this.
I previously commented that Provider B seem to have told Interactive at the time that they 
hoped to backdate Mr Ts request due to their mistake with the Origo system. It remains 
unclear to me why Provider B and Interactive did not pick up what had happened after Mr T 
first complained and when both businesses appear to have been asked about what 
happened by a third party. This complaint has gone on for an extended time. I dont consider 
this is due to Mr T. 
It is agreed that Mr T would have invested at any earlier date, had the transfer
been completed earlier, as it ought to have done.
Provider B suggested a date of 31 August 2020 for the transfer was to be used for the loss 
calculation, which would mean the funds would have notionally been available to invest on 1 
September 2020. Interactive previously accepted the transfer could have been completed 
one month earlier than it did, and I previously concluded that the transfer ought to have 
completed by 17 September 2020.  
I invited submissions on this. It appeared to me that Provider Bs proposal to use a date 
several days after the transfer request was submitted was generous when it came to 
assessing how long it ought to have taken for the transfer to complete had there not been 
any errors or oversights. However it has not been suggested to me that Provider Bs 
proposed approach ought not to be followed and so I dont think it is unreasonable for me to 
accept this date is to be used for the loss calculation.
The loss calculation exercise uses the 1 September 2020 as the date to be used to calculate 
the units and prices had Mr T invested on this date rather than the date(s) he did invest. I am 
told Mr T has provided this information to Standard Lifes satisfaction.  Interactive previously suggested Mr T had selected a very different type of fund to those he 
had held when invested with Provider B, and they seemed to suggest this was because they 
were ones that performed well in the date range for the loss calculation. I dont find this 
submission persuasive. Mr T invested a significant portion of his fund almost as soon as he 
was able to. There is nothing that makes me think he chose investments on the basis of their 
performance in the preceding few weeks so as to maximise the outcome of any potential 
loss redress calculation in the future. Such a suggestion is too remote and speculative to be 
reasonable or likely.
Putting things right
The redress approach and what needs to be done
Mr Ts transfer was delayed, and this caused him to be delayed when it came to reinvesting 
his funds. Mr T needs to be put as close to the position he would now be in if the errors and 
oversights had not occurred.
I accept Mr T sold his previous investments prior to requesting transfer as he wanted to 
make some amendments and he wanted the transfer to complete more speedily than it 
might do if he requested in-specie transfers. Mr T would have invested at any earlier date, 
had the transfer been completed, as it ought to have done, at an earlier date. 
Based on everything that has now been said, this loss calculation is based on the premise 
Mr T ought to have been in a position to re-enter the market and invest by 1 September 
2020. Mr T did not delay reinvesting as soon as he was able to reinvest. The investments 
made by Mr T following transfer ought fairly to form part of the redress exercise.
Provider B and Interactive need to agree the units Mr Ts SIPP invested in following the 
transfer in October 2020 and the relevant price. The actual investments were made on 15 
and 16 October 2020 (A). I indicated that Interactive would need to provide reliable 
confirmation of what investments were made (the units and prices) and on what date. This is 
still something I would expect them to do. Provider B proposed this information ought to be 
provided by way of the original contract notes generated from the initial investments or a 
system generated transactions statement. This did not seem to be an unreasonable request. 
I understand Provider B have more recently been provided with the information needed by 
Mr T.
I previously asked for submissions as to whether a benchmark ought to be used instead of 
the actual SIPP for the calculation. I didnt think this ought to be necessary, nor was it my 
preference and none of the further submissions have made me think otherwise.
Provider B and Interactive must then complete a comparison to calculate and agree the total 
number of units, in the same funds and based on the same proportions and allocations of 
capital, that Mr Ts SIPP could have purchased on 1 September 2020 (B), at the prices on 
that date.
If A is the same or greater than B, there is no loss, and no compensation is due.
If B is greater than A, Mr T has suffered a loss and compensation is due to Mr T.
The difference is the total monetary value of the difference based on the relevant funds 
units prices. This total monetary value is C. This needs to be calculated and agreed by 
Provider B and Interactive.C is the loss/ compensation amount. This figure is to be split in half, with Provider B 
responsible for paying 50% to Mr T and Interactive responsible for paying the other 50% to 
Mr T.
Loss of growth on any loss figure
If there has been a loss, then Mr T has suffered a loss in respect of investment performance 
from the date he could have bought additional units.
I previously noted that once figure C had been calculated, Interactive would need to go on to 
calculate the performance of C from the start date to the end date, using the SIPP as the 
benchmark.
Interactive will need to share the necessary information with Provider B to enable this to be 
completed by both businesses.
No party has disagreed with this.
The start date
1 September 2020 is to be the start date to use in calculating growth/ performance redress 
for Mr T.
The End date
The end date to use for the calculation will be the date of my final decision because the 
subject of redress relates to an invested SIPP that has remained invested from the start date 
to the present date and based on available evidence, will probably continue to be invested 
on the date of my final decision.
By using this end date, the redress calculation will reflect the performance that any
compensation amount arising on the start date (C) would have had up to date (that is, the
date of my final decision).
The calculation is to make sure that C reflects the performance consistently with the overall 
performance of the SIPP over the relevant period (including a reflection of any changes 
within the SIPP, this includes for example, withdrawals or any proportional application of 
charges) as though the sum known as C was part of the SIPP throughout that period.
A payment is to be made within 28 days of receiving notice of Mr Ts acceptance of my final 
decision. Any delay in payment to him beyond this period would mean interest on the full 
compensation amount, would be due at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the 
final decision up to the date the payment is made to him (settlement).
Payments of any compensation due are to be made if possible into Mr Ts SIPP, to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation (and any interest) 
should not be paid into his SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the compensation (and any interest) cannot be paid into his SIPP, it is to be paid directly to 
Mr T, taking account of that fact that had it been possible to pay it into the SIPP, it would 
have provided a taxable income. So the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
All calculations of the compensation are to be provided in a clear and simple format.Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm, and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept a final decision.  I am not aware of this being a live or relevant 
issue in this case.
Distress and inconvenience
As I set out before, Mr T has been inconvenienced for a far longer period than he ought to 
have been when he first chose to transfer. I dont doubt his frustration, and no doubt some 
concern. I appreciate that when Interactive first paid £100 to Mr T, they said it was just for 
their failure to return calls. In deciding whether Interactive ought to be required to pay 
anything further in respect of Mr Ts distress and inconvenience I have taken everything into 
account. Here Interactive must pay Mr T a sum of £150 to reflect his distress and 
inconvenience. This makes a total sum of £250 which I think is fair. It is to be paid within 28 
days of my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mr Ts complaint about Interactive Investor Services Limited. 
Interactive are required to complete the redress calculation exercise set out above and pay 
any sum due to Mr T by themselves in the way set out. Interactive also need to pay an 
additional sum of £150 to Mr T to reflect his distress and inconvenience. This is to be paid 
within 28 days of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman