DRN-4149576
The complaint
Mr S complains that City Credit Capital (UK) Ltd (CCC) allowed him to trade Contracts for 
Differences (CFDs) even though it wasnt appropriate for him. He says CCC shouldve 
refused to allow him to open an account.
What happened
In August 2016 Mr S, through an unregulated introducer, approached CCC to open a CFD 
trading account with it. He had met an unregulated broker who he would appoint to manage 
his trading account and completed an application form. This confirmed:
- Mr S had an annual income of between £30,000 and £80,0000
- He was about to turn 69 years old.
- Mr S had no experience in CFDs, spread betting, Forex, Futures, Options or ETFs.
- Mr S would use a fund manager to trade the products.
On 11 August 2016 CCC sent Mr S a letter which said the following:
We have reviewed your application and have noted that you have limited/or no experience 
in trading derivatives. In light of this, we need to draw your attention to our Risk Disclosure 
Statement (attached) to ensure that you fully understand the risks involved in trading 
derivatives. You should not deal in derivatives unless you understand their nature and the 
extent of your exposure to risk.
The letter goes on to give some options available to Mr S including opening a demo account, 
seeking further advice from a third party or appointing a limited power of attorney to manage 
his account. The letter concluded with the following statement:
Of course, these are only suggestions. Should you still wish to open your account we would 
be happy to accept your application upon receipt of the funds.
The letter had a Risk Disclosure Statement attached which set out specific risks related to 
trading leveraged products including CFDs.
Mr S went on to open his account and appointed an unregulated third party to trade on his 
behalf. Hes told us he traded over $68,000. He complained in 2021. CCC said that it had 
complied with the necessary regulations and provided Mr S with sufficient warnings when he 
applied for his account. So, it says it hasnt done anything wrong.
Our Investigator felt the complaint should be upheld and recommended CCC refunds Mr Ss 
losses. She said:
- CCC didnt follow the proper process set out in COBS 10.2 and 10.3 which put Mr S 
at unnecessary risk of financial harm.
- CCC didnt specifically warn Mr S that the account wasnt appropriate for him. Its 
letters suggestions reduce the impact of the risk warning.
- CCCs process suggests little consideration has been given to the guidance set out in 
COBS 10.3.3.
CCC disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a decision. A summary of its 
response points are as follows:
- The Investigators outcome is flawed and mis-applies the relevant regulatory 
requirements.
- CCCs processes complied with the relevant FCA regulatory requirements in place at 
the time.
- CCCs processes were properly applied and recognised Mr S had a lack of 
experience in trading derivatives and highlighted that to him.
- COBS 10.3.1R requires CCC to provide a warning to Mr S. It does not require it to 
specifically warn [the client] [that the firm] had concluded the account wasnt 
appropriate for him as the Investigator had suggested. CCC said the rule simply 
records that where appropriateness is not confirmed, then the client must be warned 
and this is what CCC did.
- CCC gave Mr S an explicit warning that he shouldnt deal in derivatives unless he 
fully understands the risks and it gave him the Risk Disclosure Statement.
- COBS 10.3.3 specifically relates to particular transactions and doesnt apply to the 
opening of an account itself.
- Mr S was solely responsible for the assessment and appointment of his Limited 
Power of Attorney.
I sent out my provisional decision on 20 April 2023 setting out why I was intending to uphold 
this complaint. The reasoning from this, which forms part of this decision is copied below:
It isnt in dispute that on the basis of the information Mr S gave, trading in derivatives wasnt 
appropriate for him. He had no trading experience at all and theres no evidence of his other 
investment experience. So, Ive considered whether CCC did what it was obliged to do under 
the regulations.
COBS 10.3 says:
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the 
firm must warn the client.
(2) This warning may be provided in a standardised format.
Guidance at COBS 10.3.3 allowed firms to use their own discretion, having regard to the 
circumstances, when deciding whether to allow consumers to open an account despite it not 
being appropriate. CCC has suggested that it provided a sufficient warning to Mr S and it 
was Mr Ss choice to go ahead having had that warning. So, CCC doesnt think its done 
anything wrong. However, Im not persuaded that CCC followed the correct rules set out in 
COBS 10.3. Ill explain why.
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), in my view, clarifies how COBS 10 
should be applied by firms in a document called Questions and Answers: relating to the 
provision of CFDs and other speculative products to retail investors under MiFID.
In section 4 titled The assessment of appropriateness when offering CFDs or other 
speculative products to retail investors it says, under question 2:
For example, the warning should be designed in such a way that it is an actual interruption 
in the process of authorising the opening of an account of entering a particular transaction. 
The warning should be stated in clear language, indicating that, on the basis of the answers 
provided, the specific product or service in question is not appropriate for the client as the 
client is not likely to understand the risks involved. It should also recommend clearly that the 
client does not proceed.The FCA carried out a review in 2017 and confirmed ESMAs guidance, It said that risk 
warnings should be designed to interrupt the application process. And they should use clear 
language to communicate that a specific product or service is not appropriate for the 
applicant because the applicants answers lead the firm to the view that the applicant does 
not have the knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved, with a clear 
recommendation against proceeding with the transaction. It went on to say that when 
presenting a risk warning, applicants should not be asked to confirm an intention to proceed 
with a transaction as the next step in the application process.
Im satisfied that the FCAs review in 2017 confirmed what was required already of firms 
warning its clients. So, whilst this review was after Mr S applied for his account in 2016, the 
regulations were the same and in place at that time. Having considered the statements 
above from both ESMA and the FCA, I think its clear that a warning to a client following an 
appropriateness assessment must, at the very least, occur before the account has been 
opened. And in my view, the statements above also clearly show that in order for it to 
amount to a warning as described in COBS 10, the letter or email must clearly explain to the 
consumer that trading CFDs is not appropriate for them and advise them not to proceed.
Ive thought about whether the risk warning CCC gave Mr S satisfied that above and I dont 
think that it did. In my view the warning provided to Mr S was not a warning that he should 
not trade CFDs. It simply repeated information Mr S had provided and attached a risk 
disclosure notice. There was no point in the letter where CCC informed Mr S that based on 
the answers he provided, trading CFDs wasnt appropriate for him and he should not 
proceed. The letter simply said that Mr S shouldnt go ahead if he doesnt understand the 
risks  rather than telling him that it isnt appropriate for him and he shouldnt go ahead. It 
then goes on to give him options and tells him that it would be happy to open his account. I 
dont find this satisfies the regulatory requirements set out in COBS and confirmed by the 
FCA and ESMA.
Im satisfied that given the information Mr S provided, CCC was going to conclude that 
trading CFDs wasnt appropriate for him. And it ought to have written to him and explained 
this. It ought to have advised him not to go ahead with the application because, in its view, 
he had insufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks. But I dont think its 
letter did this. The letter said:
We have reviewed your application and have noted that you have limited/ or no experience 
in trading derivatives. In light of this, we need to draw your attention to our Risk Disclosure 
Statement (attached) to ensure that you fully understand the risks involved in trading 
derivatives. You should not deal in derivatives unless you understand their nature and the 
extend of your exposure to risk.
This doesnt tell Mr S that trading CFDs isnt appropriate for him and it doesnt encourage 
him to not go ahead. In fact the next step at the end of the letter is the option for Mr S to 
open the account if he transfers funds.
I do appreciate that when firms provide a sufficient warning, a client can still go ahead. In 
this case however, I think that if Mr S had been told that it wasnt appropriate for him and 
that he shouldnt go ahead then he wouldve stopped there and not proceeded. Its clear he 
met with CCC and its also clear that from his complete lack of investment experience he 
was going to be reliant on CCC, as the regulated firm, to provide him with the information he 
needed about appropriateness to make the decision about whether to proceed.
As I dont think Mr S wouldve proceeded had CCC given him a warning that met its 
regulatory requirements, I dont think hed have suffered the losses he incurred through 
trading. Im mindful that Mr S had limited involvement in trading as he had an unregulated 
third party trading on his behalf. But Im persuaded that Mr S wouldnt have opened the 
account had CCC not failed to warn him not to proceed. For the reasons Ive explained, 
CCCs omission meant that Mr S was exposed to significant risks of financial harm  risks that he didnt fully understand and, given the nature of this type of trading, he had limited 
protection from.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S didnt respond to my provisional decision. CCC disagreed with it. In summary, its 
representative made the following points:
- COBS 10.3.1R simply mandates that the firm must warn the client that the product 
or service is not appropriate. There is no prescriptive form of words set out in the rule 
and it would be clearly wrong to require that.
- The ESMA guidance quoted in the provisional decision hadnt been published at the 
time Mr S applied for his account so it is inappropriate to imply any requirements 
from this guidance.
- Even if the guidance was in place, CCC met those requirements.
- It quoted parts from its letter to Mr S and said that from that there could be no doubt 
in his mind that he should not engage in trading derivatives unless he had satisfied 
himself and taken the opportunity to improve his knowledge and understanding 
before he did so.
- Neither the ESMA guidance or FCA review were in place when the account was 
opened and applying them with retrospectivity as set out in the decision would be 
wholly wrong.
- The conclusion that Mr S would not have proceeded and wouldnt have suffered 
losses is flawed. There is no credible evidence in support of that contention.
- It is unfair to hold CCC to a standard which wasnt published at the time the account 
was opened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as in my provisional decision  an extract 
of which is above and forms part of this decision. I understand that CCC disagrees with this. 
Ive reviewed and considered its detailed comments carefully. Whilst Ive not commented on 
every point, this decision focuses on what I consider to be the main point of disagreement  
whether CCCs risk warning to Mr S met the requirements of COBS 10.3.
I first want to address why Ive relied upon information from ESMA and the FCA which, as 
CCC has pointed out, postdates the opening of Mr Ss account. The guidance was issued to 
highlight the expectations of both regulators as to how firms ought to be complying with the 
rules that were already in place when Mr S opened his account. Im not seeking to apply any 
new rules retrospectively, but I am relying on guidance which, in my view, was explaining 
how ESMA and the FCA expected firms to already be applying the relevant rules and 
highlighting examples of bad practice.
The guidance and review gave clear explanations about what the regulators expected firms 
to do under COBS 10.3 and, whilst CCC said that it believes it was compliant, I disagree. 
CCC says that COBS 10.3.1 simply mandates that the firm must warn the client that the 
product or service is not appropriate. The regulations say: If a firm considers, on the basis 
of the information received to enable it to assess appropriateness, that the product or service 
is not appropriate to the client, the firm must warn the client.
Ive already explained above what the guidance on this says. And even looking at the 
wording above I think its clear that what the client needs to be warned about is the firms 
conclusion that the service or product is not appropriate for them. This is the reason firms must specifically assess appropriateness. I dont agree that a warning which doesnt 
specifically make it clear that the service isnt appropriate for the client is sufficient.
I accept that the warning could be in a standardised format, but the fundamental nature of 
the warning ought to be as Ive set out above. I say this because other rules in COBS 
already mandate the types of standard risk warnings which firms ought to be sending to all 
their customers. Im satisfied that the intent behind COBS 10.3.1 is not for a warning about 
the product or its risks to be sent, as the firm ought to have already sent that information. In 
my view, the warning must convey to the client the outcome of the firms assessment that 
the product is not appropriate  because this is the only interpretation that makes sense 
when viewing a firms obligations as a whole.
The purpose of an appropriateness assessment is to establish which clients shouldnt be 
buying the investment or service due to not having sufficient knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks involved. And as explained, in my view, the warning must clearly warn 
the client  in this case Mr S  that the assessment the firm has carried out means it is not 
satisfied that the client understands the risks. A warning that doesnt set out the outcome of 
the appropriateness assessment  like the one CCC issued  would defeat the purpose of 
COBS 10, and the risk of consumer detriment that it is trying to address.
CCC has said its warning to Mr S would leave him with no doubt that he shouldnt trade in 
derivatives. But nothing in what it sent to Mr S told him that CCCs assessment established 
that he did not have sufficient knowledge or experience to understand the risks involved. It 
simply said that he shouldnt deal in derivatives unless he understands the risks  these are 
not the same message. For the reasons Ive explained both here and in my provisional 
decision (an extract of which is above), Im satisfied the warning needed to specifically 
reference the fact that trading CFDs was not appropriate because Mr S lacked the 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved.
I do note CCC disagrees with this conclusion, but Im satisfied that its warning didnt satisfy 
the regulatory requirements set out in COBS. This is confirmed by the guidance issued by 
ESMA where it said:
The warning should be stated in clear language, indicating that, on the basis of the answers 
provided, the specific product or service in question is not appropriate for the client as the 
client is not likely the understand the risks involved. It should also recommend clearly that 
the client does not proceed.
The FCA echoed this in 2017 with its review. Ive already said that the review and guidance 
simply explained what firms should already be doing in applying regulations that were in 
force at the time Mr S opened his account with CCC. And none of the information CCC sent 
to Mr S warned him that trading CFDs wasnt appropriate for him and it certainly didnt give a 
clear recommendation against proceeding.
So, for these reasons, and the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that 
based on the information Mr S provided, CCC was bound to conclude that trading CFDs 
wasnt appropriate for him and it ought to have warned him of that fact and encouraged him 
not to proceed. CCC didnt do this, and as a result, Im satisfied it hasnt treated Mr S fairly.
CCC has said that it doesnt think its right to conclude that Mr S would not have proceeded. 
However, it hasnt provided anything for me to reconsider this point. Mr S didnt have any 
experience in trading in CFDs. He was in touch with others who would do it on his behalf but 
at no time was told that this wasnt something he should do based on his experience. The 
letter CCC sent to him pointed to tools that would help him understand and then said it would 
be happy to open an account for him. I think, that had he been given a warning that complied 
with the relevant regulations and warned him not to proceed based on his experience that 
hed have done something differently. It would have been the only time that he was told that 
this wasnt a good idea and I think, given his situation, knowledge and experience, that this wouldve stopped him from opening the account. As such, I dont think Mr S wouldve 
encountered the losses through this account.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr S fairly, CCC must:
Compare the performance of Mr S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
CCC should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
CFD trading 
account No longer in 
forceAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, CCC should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mr S paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the CFD trading account should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if CCC totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr S' 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr S would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. City Credit Capital (UK) Ltd should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
City Credit Capital (UK) Ltd should provide details of its calculations to Mr S in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman