DRN-2232506
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc declined her application to increase her personal 
loan.
What happened
Mrs H had an existing personal loan with Santander. In January 2020, Mrs H applied for 
around £3,000 extra borrowing from Santander. She phoned in and went through her income 
and expenditure with an agent to apply for the additional money. When the agent put the 
application through he explained that it had been referred for underwriting. The agent 
explained he wasnt sure why this was but could be related to the recent mortgage Mrs H 
had taken out.
Mrs Hs loan application was then declined and Santander explained this was due to 
affordability. Mrs H complained. She said that the additional amount shed have to pay to 
borrow the additional funds was minimal and was clearly affordable. She also explained she 
had an excellent credit history and credit score so she felt there had been a mistake. Mrs H 
also complained that the impact of her application being declined was substantial. She said 
her credit score had been affected and it had caused her a lot of stress. She explained she 
wasnt able to renovate her house as shed have liked as she felt Santanders decision 
wouldve prevented her from being able to get credit elsewhere.
Santander explained that it could see it took account of more expenditure than Mrs H told 
the agent over the phone and this wouldve made an impact. But it couldnt say whether it 
was the only reason the loan was declined. But, because there was an error, it offered Mrs H 
£100 compensation and removed the credit search on her credit file.
Our investigator felt this was fair. She explained that whilst Santander has acknowledged it 
made an error, this didnt mean it was the sole reason the loan was declined. And she 
explained that Santander was also able to take account of the mortgage Mrs H had as well 
despite her partner being the one who pays it. She felt that as there had been an error, this 
wouldve caused Mrs H some trouble and upset but felt the compensation was fair for this. 
Overall, she didnt feel there was enough to say Santander declined the application unfairly.
Mrs H disagreed. She felt the trouble and upset caused by the error was greater than the 
compensation Santander had offered. She said that it wouldnt be a deterrent. She asked for 
an ombudsman to look at the complaint as she felt shed been treated unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Santander has acted fairly so I wont be asking it to do anything 
more. Ill explain why.
Santander isnt obliged to lend anything further to Mrs H, but I can understand it wouldve 
been disappointing to be declined for a loan when she thought she would be accepted. My 
role here is to see whether Santander has acted fairly and I think it has.
Santander explained to Mrs H that it declined the additional loan due to affordability. 
Throughout the complaint Mrs H says the additional payment was only ever a few pounds 
per month and she could afford this. Ive listened to the call and Mrs H explained her 
expenditure was around £514 per month. I can see that Santander has taken into account 
this amount but also added the cost of the mortgage that is in Mrs Hs name  something 
that wasnt included in her expenditure as shes explained to this service that her partner 
pays for the mortgage. 
I dont think it was wrong for Santander to take account of lending that Mrs H has, because it 
is something that she could be responsible for both jointly and severally. Santander has 
since said it would be able to take into account the information that the mortgage is paid for 
by her partner in any subsequent application. But this doesnt mean the loan would be 
guaranteed.
Overall, Mrs H had outstanding lending with Santander at the time she applied for the loan. 
Santander has said that this had steadily increased over the years, and that she had recently 
taken out a new mortgage. It said it declined her application on affordability grounds and I 
have no reason to doubt that. As Ive mentioned before, Santander isnt obliged to accept 
every application for lending. 
Santander has said it took into account more expenditure than Mrs H said. It said this was in 
error. Whilst this may have played a part, Santander hasnt been able to say whether the 
loan application wouldve been successful had that error not occurred.
I can understand it wouldve been upsetting for the loan to be declined, but I cant say that 
Santander declined it unfairly. And much of the stress Mrs H was caused is by the 
application being declined. So, I dont think Santander should pay any more compensation 
that it has offered. Santander has removed the credit search from Mrs Hs account so she is 
in the position she wouldve been in had she not applied for the credit. I understand Mrs H 
doesnt feel like she was able to apply for credit elsewhere, but Ive not seen any evidence to 
show she had tried to do this. And, in any event, I dont think Santander acted unfairly when 
it decided not to lend the additional amount to Mrs H.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. It is for Mrs H to decide whether 
shed like to accept Santander UK Plcs offer of £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman