DRN-2310880
The complaint
Mr K applied for a loan with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial 
Services (the Post Office). His complaint is that the payment date wasnt set on the date he 
had requested, and he wasnt provided with the service he should have been when he tried 
to change the payment date and raise a complaint. 
What happened
Mr K applied for a loan with the Post Office online. He says that as part of the application 
process he selected a preferred payment date of the 15th of each month but the first 
payment was taken on 3 January 2020. He says this was earlier than he had expected and 
resulted in him going into an unarranged overdraft. He called customer services and was 
told the payment had been collected correctly and that it couldnt be changed for his 
February payment.
Mr K says that he wasnt told the payment date he chose wasnt acceptable and that he 
didnt receive the loan documents. He also says that while the website stated that he would 
receive two text messages - the first to say the money is on its way and the second 
explaining the first payment date - he only received the first text message. 
Mr K says this situation caused him distress and resulted in him having to borrow money to 
cover the first payment. He says the service provided when he called about the issues was 
poor as he was constantly interrupted causing him further stress. He also said that the 
complaint process had taken more time than it should have.
The Post Office says that Mr K made an online loan application and that the information 
provided on the website set out when the first payment would need to be made. This 
explained it would be a month after the funds were released. It said this information was also 
contained in the loan agreement and that Mr K was sent a welcome letter dated 3 December 
2019 which also set out his first payment would be due on 3 January 2020. It couldnt 
confirm which text messages Mr K had received but said that its online application process 
didnt ask a customer to input the payment date they wanted.  
Regarding the service Mr K had received, the Post Office said that Mr K contacted it on 
16 January 2020 to change his payment date and was unhappy with the process, so a 
complaint was logged. It says Mr K forwarded an email he sent on 3 January 2020, but this 
wasnt to an email address it managed and wasnt sent in accordance with the instructions 
for raising a complaint. It sent a final response to Mr K dated 5 February 2020 which it says 
addressed the issue Mr K raised in his complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Mr K completed his application 
online and she thought the information on the website was clear in explaining when the first 
payment would be taken. She said that having gone through the application process she 
didnt come across a section to complete a preferred payment date. 
Our investigator said that the Post Office had explained why the February payment couldnt 
be changed and had amended the payment from March for Mr K. She said that having 
listened to the calls she thought Mr K had been provided with a reasonable level of service.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K says he selected a preferred payment date of 15th of the month when he made 
his online loan application. However, the Post Office says that customers arent 
asked to give a preferred payment date when completing the online application and 
this was confirmed by our investigator who also went through the online process. So, 
while I note Mr Ks comments about changes that may have been made, on balance, 
I accept that Mr K wasnt able to choose the date on which the first payment would 
be taken. 
If I accept that Mr K thought his first payment would be due on 15th January I then 
have to consider whether the Post Office provided Mr K with enough information for 
him to be reasonably aware the payment would be due on 3 January 2020. Having 
done this, I find that the Post Office did provide him with the information he needed. 
The Post Offices website includes a section about when the first repayment is due, 
and this says it will be one calendar month from when the funds are released. As the 
funds were released on 3 December, the first repayment was due on 3 January 
2020. 
Mr K said he didnt receive the welcome letter, but I have seen a copy of this and 
accept it was sent. The letter sets out the payment date of 3 January 2020. The Post 
Office has explained that all important documentation is posted and the option for 
email contact relates to offers, deals and so forth. I find it reasonable the welcome 
letter was sent by post and as this contained the information about the payment 
dates I find that the Post Office provided the information required. So, while I 
appreciate the comments Mr K has made about the second text message not being 
received, I find that the Post Office had taken reasonable steps to make Mr K aware 
of when the first payment would fall due.
Mr K has said he didnt receive the service he should when trying to change his 
payment date and make a complaint. I have listened to the calls he made on 
3 January and 16 January and on both he was provided with the information he 
asked for and I find the advisers did provide the service we would expect. It was 
explained to Mr K that the payment date couldnt be changed for the February 
payment but that this could be set up for the March payment. Although Mr K wasnt 
happy the February payment couldnt be changed he accepted this. 
While I understand Mr Ks frustration that the February payment date couldnt be 
changed, this was due to the Post Offices systems. It isnt my role to say how the 
Post Office should set up its systems, but I can consider whether Mr K has been 
treated fairly. In this case I find that Mr K was treated fairly and was provided with 
clear information about the payment date change. This meant he had time to make 
sure he had the funds available for the February payment and his payment date was 
then changed to meet his request.Mr Ks complaint was logged on the call on 16 January 2020.  On the call his 
complaint was logged regarding the payment date process and this was addressed in 
the Post Offices final response letter dated 5 February 2020. However, I appreciate 
Mr Ks frustration that his initial complaint he submitted online wasnt received and all 
the points in this werent addressed in the final response letter. However, I also note 
the Post Offices comment about where this complaint was sent. So, while I do 
understand why Mr K was upset by this, I find that the complaint he raised on the 
telephone call was addressed within a reasonable timeframe and the wider issues he 
has raised have been addressed through this investigation. Therefore, I do not 
require the Post Office to do anything further.
While I understand this has been an upsetting process for Mr K, overall, I find he was 
provided with the information he needed to know when the payments would be due 
and that the Post Office did assist him with his change of payment date request.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading 
as Post Office Financial Services.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman