DRN-3616284
The complaint
Mr K complains about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited provided to him. He says that Loans 2 Go
Limited didnt carry out proper lending checks and, if they had done so, would have seen
that he had a gambling addiction. Mr K says Loans 2 Go Limited shouldnt have lent to him
because of this and that it was irresponsible of them to do so.
What happened
Mr K says he looked online in October 2020 to see if he could find any affordable loans. He
also says that Loans2Go Limited (Loans2Go) gave him a loan of £800 even though hed
only put in his bank details to see what kind of loan he could get. Mr K says that he didnt
sign any contract with Loans2Go and that when he realised how high the interest was on the
loan, he contacted them immediately to say he couldnt afford this. Loans2Go explained to
Mr K that no interest and charges would be applied if he repaid the capital sum of the loan
the following day.
Mr K rang his mother to explain what had happened and she lent him £800 to repay the
loan. He then complained to Loans2Go saying that they didnt carry out any checks to see if
he could have afforded the loan and that he didnt sign any loan agreement with them.
Loans2Go didnt uphold the complaint and said, in summary, that they carried out the
necessary affordability checks before it gave Mr K the loan.
Mr K didnt agree and referred the matter to us. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He
said that Loans2Go didnt carry out proportionate checks as there were unanswered
questions about Mr Ks financial circumstances at the time that should have prompted further
checks. He said that, had Loans2Go carried out further checks, they would have likely seen
that Mr K had a possible gambling problem and that further borrowing would have adversely
affected his financial situation. Our investigator recommended that Loans2Go refund Mr K
the £800 he repaid as he owed his mother this and she expected this to be repaid.
Loans2Go didnt agree and said, in summary, that there was no obligation for them to have
checked Mr Ks bank statements prior to granting the loan as our investigator had said. They
also felt that requesting these statements wasnt proportionate in view of the information they
had obtained about Mr Ks financial situation and that he wasnt showing any signs of
struggling to meet his existing financial commitments. So Loans2Go felt they would not have
seen Mr Ks gambling problems and highlighted that he didnt make them aware of this.
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 6 July 2022, where I said the following:
Prior to approving the lending, Loans2Go had an obligation to lend responsibly. In short, this
means that they had to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks to
ensure Mr K could afford the repayments in a sustainable way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the
early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for
example, a borrowers income was low, or the amount lent was high. And the longer the
lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the
borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect a lender to be able to show that it
didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Loans2Go provided Mr K with a loan of £800. This loan had an APR of 1,013.3% and an 18-
month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £3,291.12 was due to be repaid in
18 monthly instalments of £182.84.
Ive seen the information Loans2Go used when they were considering Mr Ks loan
application. Theyve sent us a screenshot from the time which shows that Mr K had declared
his monthly income to be £2,000 and his normal monthly expenditure to be £618. This left
monthly disposable income of £1,382. Loans2Go has also sent us details of the credit check
they carried out.
Loans2Go has said that they verified Mr Ks income via an online verification tool which
came out at roughly £1,370 each month and calculated Mr Ks monthly expenditure as £987.
They also said they added a 10% buffer to these amounts to account for any monthly
fluctuations and this meant that Mr K could still afford the monthly payments for the loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr K and Loans2Go have said. The first thing for me to say
is that this was, as far as I can tell, Mr Ks first loan with them. And the information provided
does suggest Mr K was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and
Loans2Go didnt just rely on what it was told.
I note Loans2Gos credit check showed that Mr K had a previous county court judgement
against him. But this was issued nearly three years before this loan was provided and I think
it is reasonable for Loans2Go to have placed less weight on this. Bearing in mind the
amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing recent payment difficulties and Mr
Ks apparent lack of any previous lending with Loans2Go, I dont think it was unreasonable
for Loans2Go to rely on the payments being affordable as, on the face of things, they did
appear to be.
I accept that Mr Ks actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered.
But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender did
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Loans2Go did anything wrong in
deciding to lend to Mr K - it carried out proportionate checks even though its possible the
information it was provided with may not have told the whole story. I would add here that I
realise Mr K was suffering from a gambling problem at the time. But the only way Loans2Go
would have realistically seen this, was if they saw Mr Ks bank statements before it granted
him the loan. Lenders though arent obligated to check a prospective customers bank
statements as a matter of course and I dont think here it was necessary or proportionate for
Loans2Go to have asked to see these.
Ive also thought about the terms of this loan. The amount Mr K is being expected to repay
compared to the loan he was given is significant. But the credit agreement doesnt disguise
this. As Mr K accepted these terms, and I am satisfied that Mr K did actually apply for the
loan, plus bearing in mind that the payments appeared affordable and there isnt anything on
file, at least, to demonstrate Loans2Go actively took advantage of Mr Ks position, overall I
find that Loans2Go didnt unfairly provide this loan given all the circumstances.
As this is the case, Im not proposing to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate this will be
very disappointing for Mr K, particularly bearing in mind our investigator upheld the complaint
initially. And I am very mindful of what Mr K used the money for and the impact this had on
him. I would only add at this stage that my decision is provisional and that both parties havethe opportunity to send me any final evidence to consider.
Loans2Go responded to my provisional decision saying that they had nothing further to add. 
Mr K replied to say that he didnt agree. He said, in summary, that the fact that a CCJ was 
recorded on his credit file should have shown Loans2Go that he was struggling. Mr K also 
said that Loans2Go were aware he had previously applied for loans with them and they had 
declined those applications. And he said that the income figure of £2,000 wasnt particularly 
relevant when his bank statements showed he was spending thousands of pounds each 
month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr K for his further comments, which I have considered. I dont though find 
that these change my provisional conclusions. Ill explain why. 
I agree with Mr K that the presence of a CCJ on a credit file could be an indication of 
financial difficulties. However, I still think it was reasonable for Loans2Go to place less 
weight on this when it considered his application. The CCJ in question was over three years 
old and I think it reasonable that Loans2Go could have assumed that this showed that Mr K 
may have struggled to pay this debt at that particular time. It doesnt though in my view show 
that Mr K was struggling or likely struggling at the time of the application, when there were 
no other recent signs of problems with repaying credit and where Mr Ks income and 
expenditure details showed that he could, in theory, afford the loan repayments. 
I would possibly have changed my view on this had there been, for example, other indicators 
of financial difficulties, such as missed repayments on Mr Ks credit file or other adverse 
information. That wasnt the case here and I dont agree that a CCJ that was over three 
years old should have alerted Loans2Go that Mr K was potentially unable to afford this loan 
without further checks being carried out. Its not uncommon for lenders to still lend to 
customers where there is adverse information on their credit file, although affordability 
checks must still be proportionate based on each individual application. 
I also accept that Mr Ks bank statements showed a lot of expenditure relative to the income 
Loans2Go took into account. However, there is no regulatory obligation for Loans2Go to 
check bank statements when they assess loan applications. They might have chosen to ask 
for Mr Ks bank statements had there been clear or potential signs of financial difficulty or 
over indebtedness on Mr Ks part. And, had that been the case, I may have expected 
Loans2Go to have taken further steps to ensure they did lend responsibly, such as 
verification of Mr Ks income and expenditure (which may have led them to asking for and 
checking his bank statements). 
However, I dont find that there were signs of this and so I dont find that Loans2Go should 
have taken any further steps than they did. I dont therefore think that Loans2Go would have 
seen that Mr K was gambling heavily at the time and that they should have declined the 
application as a result. 
I realise that Mr K was clearly in the throes of an addiction and I have absolutely no doubt 
that this impacted him financially and emotionally. I dont in any way wish to underplay or 
underestimate the extent of this. However, for the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that 
Loans2Go carried out proportionate affordability checks when it assessed Mr Ks application. 
And it follows that I wont be upholding Mr Ks complaint because of this. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman