DRN-1854662
 
The complaint
Miss G complains about Santander UK Plc and the service they provided which she feels 
resulted in her missing out on the opportunity to set up a Help to Buy ISA (HTBI).
What happened
On 1 November 2019, Miss G visited her local Santander branch with the intention of setting 
up a HTBI. The branch advised Miss G that she had until the 30 November to set up the ISA 
but didnt have the availability to set one up for her that day. They advised Miss G could 
return at a later date or set the HTBI up herself online.
On 30 November, Miss G went online to set up the HTBI. But she was unable to do so. She 
was then advised that the application process had been closed on 28 November due to the 
high number of applications. Miss G was unhappy with this so she raised a complaint.
She explained shed be informed by the branch that it would be open until 30 November. So, 
she felt shed been mis-advised by the branch and this meant shed now lost up to £6,000 
that she wouldve been able to claim from the HTBI. She didnt think Santander had acted 
fairly by closing the application process early without publicising it so wanting to be 
compensated for the potential loss shed incurred.
Santander didnt agree. They explained that theyd taken a business decision to close the 
application process early on 4 November. So, they thought the information the branch 
provided on 1 November had been correct at the time. They also explained theyd updated 
their website to publicise the new application closing date. So, they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. But, they accepted Mr G had been affected by the change in date and 
explained theyd feed this back to see if their process could be improved in the future. They 
also paid Miss G £30 as a good will gesture to recognise the inconvenience shed been 
caused. 
Miss G remained unhappy. She didnt think the £30 recognised the impact shed suffered 
and asked for Santander to remove it from her account. She maintained shed been given 
mis-information which had impacted her financially. As other banks had kept their application 
process open until 30 November, she didnt think Santander had acted fairly. So, she 
referred her complaint to us for a decision.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought the information 
Miss G was provided by the branch at the time was correct so didnt agree Miss G had been 
mis-informed. She thought Santander had updated their website to communicate the change 
in the application end date and that this was fair and reasonable. She thought Miss G had 
enough time to apply for the HTBI and didnt think it was fair to hold Santander responsible 
for Miss Gs decision to leave it till the final day. But, she thought the £30 offered by 
Santander was fair to recognise the inconvenience Miss G experienced due to the branch 
not booking her an appointment to complete the HTBI sign up process.Miss G didnt agree with this view. She maintained her position that Santander had acted 
unfairly by closing the application process early. She didnt think it was enough for 
Santander to only update their website as she had no reason to look at the website between 
the 1 November and 30 November. She thought Santander shouldve publicised the change 
more widely and that theyd acted unfairly by failing to do so. So, she didnt think the £30 
was enough to compensate her for her potential financial loss. As Miss G didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the impact Miss G has experienced by not being able to set up the 
HTBI. Ive no doubt this is a product Miss G wanted to use to help her financially and not 
being able to do so wouldve been upsetting and frustrating. But, for me to agree that 
Santander should compensate her for the loss she feels she suffered, Id have to decide that 
theyd acted unfairly by deciding to close the application process early. And in this instance, 
I dont think this is the case.
Our service is in place to investigate individual complaints brought to us by customers. We 
are unable to comment on business processes or direct them to be altered. So, Im unable 
to say that Santander acted unfairly by closing the application end date early. Thats a 
business decision they were able to make. But, I am able to consider whether this change 
was communicated clearly to Miss G and whether the service she was provided in branch 
was fair.
Miss G attended her local branch on 1 November where she was told she had till 30 
November to apply for the HTBI. At this time, the branch provided her with the information 
that they knew to be correct. It wasnt until the 4 November that Santander decided the close 
the application process two days earlier due to the number of applications they were 
receiving. So, I cant say the branch misled Miss G at this point.
I understand Santander update their website after this date to make customers aware of the 
change in the application closing date. And they believe this was reasonable notice to 
potential customers wishing to make use of the HTBI.
But, Miss G didnt access the website until the 30 November, so hadnt been aware of the 
change. I understand she doesnt think updating the website was adequate notice of the 
change in date as she had no reason to look at the website between those dates. Although I 
understand Miss Gs frustration, I wouldnt have expected Santander to do any more to 
publicise the change. Although Miss G feels they shouldve publicised it more significantly, I 
think updating their website was a reasonable course of action as I wouldve expected most 
customers wishing to utilise the HTBI to have visited the website before the 30 November. 
It was Miss Gs decision to wait until the last day of the application process to submit her 
application. Miss G had over 3 weeks between visiting the branch and the closing of the 
process to submit her application. Had she done so, she wouldve become aware of the 
change in the end date and been able to apply for the HTBI successfully. But, I understand 
why she didnt feel the need to do so due to the information she was provided on 1 
November.
I think its also important to remember that the majority of businesses offering a HTBI closed 
their application process on 30 November, which Miss G has mentioned. So, Ive also took into consideration the fact Miss G wouldve been able to apply for a HTBI with another 
business when she realised Santanders had closed. So, I dont think it would be fair to say 
that Miss G lost out on the opportunity to apply for a HTBI altogether.
Its unfortunate that the timeline of events meant Miss G received the correct information at 
a specific time, but this information later led to her missing the HTBI end date for Santander 
specifically. Santander have recognised the inconvenience this caused and offered Miss G 
£30, saying the branch couldve done more to assist her in setting up the HTBI that day.
Im unsure what was discussed in branch, but I do think Santander couldve offered Miss G 
the chance to book an appointment to set up the HTBI and had they done so, they may have 
been able to contact Miss G to explain to her directly the change in end date. So, I do think 
they had the possibility to do more to prevent the situation Miss G now finds herself in. And I 
think the £30 Santander have offered is fair one to recognise that their branch couldve done 
more to minimise the possibility of Miss G missing their application deadline. So, I dont think 
Santander need to do anything further.
I understand this isnt the decision Miss G was hoping for as she believes shes missed out 
on a large sum of money the HTBI wouldve generated. But, as I hope this decision explains, 
this complaint has arisen from unfortunate timing rather than anything Santander has done 
significantly wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint about Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman