DRN-1758586
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) didnt do enough to progress his 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In May 2019, TCG submitted a PPI complaint to a lender on Mr Bs behalf. Mr B contacted 
TCG several times for an update and TCG told him it would chase the lender for a response.
In February 2020, the lender informed TCG that it had sent a final response letter saying it 
wasnt upholding Mr Bs PPI complaint in July 2019. TCG told Mr B this might mean it was 
too late for his PPI complaint to be considered by the financial ombudsman service. It said it 
still hadnt received a copy of the lenders final response letter. 
Mr B complained to TCG about how it had handled his case. He was unhappy with the 
length of time it had been with TCG and how often hed had to chase it.
TCG said it had still not received a final decision letter from the lender. It acknowledged that 
it should have chased the lender for a response earlier on. And it recognised that Mr B had 
contacted it several times by phone and email for an update.  It offered Mr B £85 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns and recommended TCG increase Mr Bs compensation by £65, meaning a 
total of £150. She said she wouldnt speculate on the likely outcome of any PPI claim, but 
the compensation should reflect trouble and upset for a lost opportunity and TCG not calling 
him to update him when requested.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think £150 was enough to compensate 
him for potentially missing out on the deadline to bring his PPI complaint to the financial 
ombudsman service. He said hed been paying PPI on his mortgage for over 20 years, so he 
felt he was losing out on a lot of compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
TCG has acknowledged that it should have chased the lender for a response to Mr Bs PPI 
complaint sooner than it did. It says it should have chased it around eight weeks after 
submitting the claim. From what Ive seen, the first time TCG chased the lender was in 
October 2019, which was around five months after submitting his complaint. TCG has sent us recordings of several phone calls where Mr B asked TCG for an update on 
his complaint and requested it chase the lender for a response. Mr B was understandably 
frustrated that he didnt have an answer and that he had to contact TCG repeatedly. I agree 
with our investigators view that TCGs should have done more to keep Mr B informed.
As both parties appear to agree with our investigators findings about TCGs service, what 
Ive needed to decide is whether the compensation our investigator recommended is a fair 
amount to put things right.
The main issue is that Mr B didnt receive the final response letter the lender says it sent in 
July 2019. It appears that neither Mr B nor TCG were aware of this letter until February 
2020, which is more than six months after the lender says it was issued. This might mean 
that the financial ombudsman service isnt able to consider Mr Bs PPI complaint.
I can understand why Mr B is concerned about this. He feels that hes lost out on a 
substantial amount of money because hed paid for PPI on his mortgage for many years. But 
Ive no way of knowing if Mr B has lost out financially because TCG wasnt more proactive in 
chasing the lender for a response. Mr B might have spent a lot of money on PPI premiums, 
but the financial ombudsman service doesnt uphold all the PPI complaints that are referred 
to it.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B, but I think £150 is fair compensation for a 
potential loss of opportunity and the frustration and inconvenience he has experienced.
Putting things right
TCG should pay Mr B £65 for trouble and upset, in addition to the £85 its already offered 
him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct The Claims Guys 
Limited to put things right by paying him an additional £65. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman