DRN-2868209
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Revolut Ltd hasnt refunded her money lost to a scam, where she 
sent £9,373 to fraudsters.
  
What happened
Miss N received a call from scammers in March 2021. They said they were calling from 
HMRC about unpaid tax, with Miss Ns former employer having not paid correctly. Miss N 
was told she needed to make payment immediately or else face arrest and would be taken 
to court. The fraudsters applied a lot of pressure and were able to make it look like they were 
calling from a genuine number for the Ministry of Justice. 
The tactics used by the fraudsters prompted Miss N to make payments as instructed. She 
sent six different payments to three separate accounts, over the course of just over an hour. 
Miss N reported the scam to Revolut after growing suspicious and calling the Ministry of 
Justice directly. She was told that shed fallen victim and so reported the incident to Revolut. 
It looked into recovering her money from the recipient accounts, but it had already been 
moved on and only £1.03 was recovered.
Revolut said it wouldnt refund the scam payments as Miss N had authorised them. It also 
said it had provided her with warnings about scams at the time, after blocking attempts to 
make the first payment.
One of our investigators recommended that the case be upheld. She thought Revolut ought 
to have done more at the point it recognised suspicious activity on the account. And so she 
said it ought to refund all of the scam payments, pay 8% interest on the refund, and also pay 
Miss N £250 in compensation for the way it had handled the claim.
Revolut disagreed, maintaining what it had said about blocking payments and providing a 
warning. It also didnt feel that an attempt at direct contact with Miss N would have made a 
difference. It believes Miss N would likely have made the payments no matter what it had 
said or done.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I accept the transactions were authorised payments, even though Miss N was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used the Revolut banking app and her security information to make 
the payments. So, although she didnt intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss N is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
It seems quite clear from the account history that the transactions on Miss Ns account 
were unusual and suspicious. There isnt really any disagreement about this point as its 
clear that Revolut did flag the first payment. It actually blocked the attempt to make that 
payment four times, and so its quite clear Revolut felt Miss N was at risk of financial harm. 
So the question is whether Revolut did enough once it suspected there was a high risk of 
fraud.
Did Revolut take appropriate action in identifying and responding to the risk of financial 
harm?
Revolut has said the following warning was displayed each time the attempted payment 
was blocked:
Review transfer
Our systems have identified your transaction as highly suspicious. We declined it to 
protect you.
If you decide to make the payment again anyway, you can, and we wont decline it. 
As we have warned you this payment is highly suspicious and to not make the 
payment, if the person you pay turns out to be a fraudster, you may lose all you your 
money and never get it back.
You can learn more about how to assess this payment and protect yourself from this 
link: https://takefive-stopfraud.org.uk/
Miss N had to acknowledge this message in order to move on. She has said that she has 
no recollection of doing so. Shes also said that she doesnt recall a warning about not 
paying a new recipient unless she knew the person, though it seems likely, based on the 
available evidence, that she was presented with such warnings. Her memory of all that 
happened is somewhat blurred and shes said thats likely down to her pre-existing anxiety. 
Miss N has described how it triggered to such an extent on the day of the scam that she 
actually passed out for several minutes. 
Revolut believes the warning it gave was enough in the circumstances. And its said how it 
cant give detailed warnings about all the different types of scam that a customer might be 
falling victim to. But Im satisfied it ought, fairly and reasonably, to have done more here. 
Banks are expected to carry out the payment instructions it receives from its customers. 
But that isnt without exception and the broad regulatory landscape obliges banks to protect 
its customers from fraud and financial harm. And here, Revolut had taken some steps to 
stop the payment journey and to put Miss N on notice of the risks. But Im not persuaded 
the action taken was enough to protect Miss N, particularly when considering how the 
pattern of spending continues to present as being high risk in terms of known patterns of fraud (multiple new payees, payments made in quick succession, the balance of the 
account being cleared repeatedly).
The warning Miss N was given was very generic and didnt highlight what the risks of 
making the payment might be. Miss N was given no context as to what Revolut thought 
might be wrong or how she might protect herself (aside from simply not proceeding). And it 
is the case, as Ive mentioned, that once the warning had been given, the account activity 
became more suspicious, not less so. And yet no further intervention from Revolut was 
forthcoming. 
Without proactive steps to break the spell of fraudsters, customers will often proceed with 
the payment they are making. They are unaware that they are caught up in the scam. And 
when sophisticated elements such as number spoofing are involved, then the scam 
becomes significantly more persuasive. A generic and unspecific warning is unlikely to 
have the required impact on a customer that has been manipulated into action through a 
combination of sophisticated means and fear. Its here where direct contact with Miss N 
would likely have made the difference. That might have come in the form of Revolut 
contacting her directly, or by requiring her to contact Revolut herself to speak to a member 
of staff before being able to proceed. 
I believe that had a conversation taken place the scam would have been quickly revealed, 
given Revolut ought to have been in possession of substantially more knowledge than 
Miss N in terms of how these scams operate. Had it questioned the details of why she was 
making the payments it seems more likely than not Miss N would have explained she was 
paying overdue tax to HMRC. She doesnt appear to have been given a cover story and so 
had no reason to lie to the bank. And that detail alone, about paying overdue tax to HMRC, 
would likely have been enough to put Revolut on notice that something definitely wasnt 
right. It ought to have then given Miss N clear and specific warnings about what she was 
doing, and I believe that would have broken the fraudsters spell. Im not persuaded by 
Revoluts argument that she would have continued anyway, despite the details of the scam 
being explained to her. And that is supported by the fact that she does uncover the scam 
herself not long after making the final payment.
I find then that had Revolut acted appropriately once it had identified the risk of financial 
harm the loss would have been avoided in full. And so it ought now compensate Miss N for 
that loss and refund the money that hasnt been recovered, totalling £9,371.97.
Our investigator recommended that 8% simple interest be paid on the refund. That rate 
would normally be applied when its apparent  and Im broadly summarising here  that a 
customer has been deprived of the use of their funds, or where they had plans to use the 
money elsewhere. But Miss N has explained to us that she intended to keep the money in 
her savings account for a long time, whilst she saved up to buy a house. And so I believe 
the fair award in terms of the interest is to match her savings account rate. Miss N has 
explained thats 0.1% and so that is the rate Im awarding.
Should Miss N bear some responsibility for the loss?
Ive thought about whether Miss N ought to bear some responsibility for her loss, 
considering her actions at the time of the scam. But here, Miss N received a call on a 
spoofed number. She checked that number online before making any payments. And I 
dont think it should be underestimated how powerful that can be in affecting a customers 
decision making. Most people wont be aware that such a technique is even possible. 
This number spoofing was then backed up with faked correspondence that did look like it 
had been produced by HMRC. Its true that when the letters are studied thoroughly there is some phrasing that doesnt sound right. But, in the heat of the moment, when a fraudster is 
employing a range of tactics including fear and pressure, its understandable to see how 
someone may not pick up on these warning signs.
Ive already given my thoughts on the warning that Revolut presented. But Ill repeat here 
that I dont believe it did enough to put Miss N on notice of the specific risks she faced. And 
it didnt identify what Revolut ought to have known were common tricks employed by 
fraudsters. Neither was there any detail as to why Revolut thought the payment was 
suspicious. 
In considering all of the circumstances of the case I dont find Miss N should bear any 
responsibility for the loss by way of contributory negligence. She was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam, unaware of the risks in making the payments she did. Revolut, as the 
expert in the relationship, ought to have done more.
Distress and inconvenience
Having read through all of the available correspondence and having listened to a number of 
calls Miss N has had with our service, its clear shes suffered a great deal of distress as a 
result of losing this money. Thats no doubt been made worse as a result of her pre-existing 
anxiety. And Im conscious that the principle cause of Miss Ns distress has been the 
actions of the fraudster; its they that initiated this series of events.
However, Im also mindful that Revolut could have and ought to have prevented the scam 
from happening at the point the first payment was being made. Had it done so, Miss N 
would have suffered little to no distress. Whereas she has now endured several months not 
knowing whether she might get her money back.
I can also see that Revolut could have handled Miss Ns claim better in terms of its 
communication with her. I can see Miss N was regularly seeking updates from Revolut 
about what was happening with her claim. I wouldnt necessarily expect Revolut to have an 
update for her at every time of asking. And I appreciate it will have different departments 
that deal with customer queries, complaints, and fraud investigations. But I believe Revolut 
could have been much clearer about what would happen with her claim and subsequent 
complaint. And it could have done so sooner than it did. The timescales for a response, for 
example, werent explained properly until Miss N had asked numerous times when shed 
hear back. 
At one point Miss N received £1.03 back from one of the accounts controlled by a 
fraudster. Miss N was clearly alarmed by this. She was concerned that the accounts were 
still active, and she had no idea how or why the money had appeared back in her account. 
It seems she believed she was still at risk of further financial harm. But when she 
questioned this with Revolut it gave no answer as to where the money had come from or 
what was happening. I dont believe its unreasonable to suggest Revolut could have been 
clearer with her about what was happening.
With all of this in mind Im in agreement with our investigator that Revolut ought to 
compensate Miss N for the distress and inconvenience suffered; it should pay her £250.
  
Putting things right
Revolut Ltd should now:
Refund Miss Ns remaining loss, which stands at £9,371.97;Pay interest on that sum at 0.1% compound per year. If Revolut deducts tax from this 
part of the award it should provide a tax deduction certificate to Miss N so she can 
reclaim the amount from HMRC if eligible to do so ; and
Pay Miss N £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman