DRN-3586997
The complaint
Mr J has complained about a course supplied and financed by TTR PT Limited (TTR).
What happened
Mr J signed up to a 2-year course with TTR in September 2019. The course cost around 
£2,400 and it was funded with a 3-year fixed sum loan agreement, also with TTR. 
Mr J received a welcome email from a tutor on 1 October 2019 telling him to bear in mind he 
had a 12-month period in which to complete each section of the course. He was also told 
this over the phone prior to signing up. So he had 12 months to complete the first three 
modules, and another 12 months to complete the final parts. The welcome email said 
modules have exams associated with them and that the course fees cover the cost of a 
single sitting for each exam. To sit an exam, Mr J was told to contact his tutor who would see 
if he was ready for the exam before putting him forward. The welcome email also set out the 
correct order to complete the modules.
I can see TTR contacted Mr J in March 2020 to say in person exams needed to be put on 
hold due to Covid-19. And he was told remote exams would commence on 15 April 2020. It 
looks like this was in response to an email Mr J had sent it a few weeks earlier about the 
availability of exams. 
TTR wrote to Mr J towards the end of June 2020 to check on his progress. Mr J responded 
to say he was planning on taking one of the exams online but had found other students had 
not had good experiences. He said the exam was scheduled towards the end of July 2020. 
And he highlighted he wanted to complete that exam before moving on to the next subject. 
He also highlighted he had some issues booking on to the online exam because hed used 
his voucher to book one at the exam centre before lockdown and there were difficulties 
changing it. And he also asked if his time limit would be extended in light of Covid-19. 
TTR gave Mr J some information about rebooking the test and highlighted exam centres had 
been open for a couple of weeks by that point with social distancing. But it said it wouldnt 
offer an extension as Mr J had options available to take the exam but chose not to so there 
werent extenuating circumstances. 
TTR and Mr J had some further discussions where TTR explained to Mr J he had to 
complete the relevant modules before the end of September 2020 to be able to move on to 
the final parts. At this point Mr J reiterated hed tried to book the exam before lockdown and 
that hed booked the earliest in person exam he could. He also queried why the course 
name had changed in his online library. 
I can see TTR and Mr J spoke to each other again at the beginning of October 2020 about 
an extension for the course. TTR explained this would be something Mr J would have to 
apply for. Mr J was unhappy because he felt there were factors outside his control i.e. Covid-
19 that impacted his ability to progress the course. TTR acknowledged Mr J had tried to 
book an exam during Covid-19 but it explained he could have still progressed with his 
studies. Mr J highlighted hed tried to book the exam various times between March and July 
2020 and he reiterated he wanted to progress the course in the correct order. 
TTR sent a final response to Mr Js complaint. It said it was sorry to hear Mr J was having 
difficulties booking his exam, but the issues were with a third-party company so TTR said it 
couldnt comment. It said students had been given the option to carry out the exam online 
with a webcam. It said the inability to book an exam only lasted a month. It also reiterated 
Mr J needed to complete the first three modules within the first 12 months of the course 
before moving on to the next part. TTR asked Mr J for more details about his work as a key 
worker that was impacting his ability to complete the course. TTR also said in order for an 
extension to be granted at least 80% of all modules within the first stage need to be 
complete. And because Mr J hadnt started the third module, he hadnt reached that level. 
But given the circumstances TTR said it was willing to offer a four-month extension, but it 
said a fee would be payable. 
Mr J responded with some details of his work and how Covid-19 had impacted his ability to 
study. He also clarified how much of the course hed completed. And he complained again to 
say, in summary:
He thought the fixed sum loan agreement wasnt clear enough and that it breached 
the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUTR) because:
a. It didnt say part one needed to be completed within the first 12 months.
b. The modules were set out incorrectly. 
c. The agreement didnt say hed need a webcam for exams. 
d. The costs in relation to extending the course were hidden.
TTR offered a reduction of £50 on the extension fee as a gesture of goodwill. So Mr J was 
asked to pay £190 instead of £240. He was unhappy with this, but I understand he agreed to 
pay it. 
He also referred the complaint to our service to consider. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt make any recommendations. In summary, he 
said:
Mr J was told by phone and welcome email that the course was split into two 
sections, and that hed need to complete each part within 12 months. 
He agreed the documentation hed seen could have been clearer but that it wasnt a 
detailed outline of the way the course would be progressed. So he didnt think it was 
misleading. 
He acknowledged Covid-19 was unprecedented, but he thought the offer to move 
exams online was fair, and that incurring the cost of having to buy a webcam wasnt 
unreasonable. 
He didnt think the issues Mr J had trying to book an online exam were the reason he 
didnt progress the course because Mr J had said he didnt want to buy a webcam. 
He thought the terms and conditions adequately highlighted there might be a cost to 
extend the course, and he didnt think the fees were unreasonable. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said his main objections were:
TTR unfairly changed the terms of the agreement by adding the requirement for a 
webcam.
He wasnt supplied exactly what was set out on the finance agreement. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint saying:I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr J 
and TTR that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
Mr J funded the course with a regulated credit agreement from TTR, and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
I agree with a lot of what our investigator has said, but Im thinking of coming to a slightly 
different conclusion. Ill set out my thinking below.
Misleading documentation
Ive first thought about what Mr J has said about the documentation breaching the CPUTR. 
This was mainly in relation to the way the modules had to be completed; the webcam; the 
description of the modules; and the costs to extend the agreement. 
I should first point out that the CPUTR sets out, amongst other things, what would be 
considered unfair practices by traders such as misleading actions or omissions. But the 
regulations dont set out direct rights for consumers affected by breaches of them, unlike the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) which is also relevant here. Its not my role to say what 
laws have or havent been broken. Its also not my role to say whether an agreement is 
enforceable. But, like Ive said above, Im required to take the law, such as the CPUTR and 
the CRA into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint. 
In Mr Js case, like our investigator pointed out, I agree the documentation could have been 
clearer in parts, such as with the details of how the modules need to be completed. But I 
have to bear in mind its not that uncommon for credit agreements not to include lots of 
information about the product or service thats being financed. In Mr Js case he was told 
how the course needed to be completed both with welcome packs as well as over the phone 
prior to signing up. So I dont think I can fairly say he wasnt sufficiently notified how things 
worked, or that he entered into the agreement on the basis of a misrepresentation or 
misleading omission. 
Ive next thought about what Mr J has said about the online exams and being required to 
purchase a webcam. I have to bear in mind Covid-19 was unprecedented. And it impacted 
TTRs (and other companies) ability to offer certain services, such as in person exams. 
While I appreciate the exams were coordinated by a third party, I think TTR has some level 
of responsibility here for certain issues Mr J had in booking them. He needed to sit the exam 
to progress the course. But given there was an alternative option for Mr J to complete the 
exam, I dont think TTR needed to do more here. It seems like a reasonable solution in the 
circumstances. If, however, for example, Mr J couldnt afford a webcam, he could have 
asked TTR for help in supplying one. I cant see he reached out for help early on when he 
says he was having issues. It wasnt until later that happened. 
I can understand why Mr J was unhappy the terms and conditions didnt set out a webcam 
would be required. But would things have played out very differently had the terms and 
conditions said a webcam would be required in the event of a global pandemic? From what Ive seen, Mr J said he had difficulty booking on to the online exam and preferred to do it in 
person. It was a new system set up at short notice, which might explain some of the 
difficulties. And it also sounds like his ability to complete the course in general was affected 
because of the impact of Covid-19 on his work as a key worker, which is understandable. 
I can also appreciate why Mr J was unhappy if the course details on the finance agreement 
were different to what was recorded on his course library. But its not clear hes been signed 
up to the wrong course. Thats not what Mr J has complained about. But if thats not right, he 
should provide evidence in response to this provisional decision. But, on a fair and 
reasonable basis, based on what Ive seen, I cant see TTR needs to take action if its 
provided Mr J with the course he intended to take out. And its therefore fair he pays for that 
course. 
Ive also thought about what the terms say about extending the course: Extensions due to 
illness or personal circumstance are not guaranteed and may be offered with an additional 
cost. Again, while I accept TTR does indicate thered be a cost involved in extending the 
course and that its not guaranteed, I also think TTR could have been clearer here. It could 
have explained a bit more about what the costs would be, or the sorts of reasons courses 
could be extended, along with any other terms that were relevant  such as the requirement 
for a certain level of course completion. 
Does TTR need to do anything to put things right?
Mr J has mentioned receiving a full refund for the course, but I dont think that would be fair. 
Hes been given access to the course he signed up for, and aside from some of the issues 
Ive mentioned above, hes been provided the service. So Im not going to direct TTR to 
refund Mr J the course fee. What I think I need to decide is whether it should refund Mr J the 
£190 fee he paid to extend the course. And I think it should. Ill explain why. 
Ive not been provided all the evidence of the contact Mr J had with the exam centre. But it 
doesnt seem to be in dispute he tried to book an exam around the time Covid-19 happened. 
There was at least a month he was unable to book his exam. So, while this was an 
unprecedented time, it did have an impact on him. Further, hes told us he had to rebook the 
exam various times, and that he had issues transferring his voucher. By Mr Js account, he 
said it took from around March to July 2020 for him to book the exam. I appreciate he may 
have been able to do this sooner had he bought a webcam or reached out earlier for more 
help. But in all the circumstances, I still think hes been caused some detriment here 
primarily through no fault of his own. 
Moreover, while I can understand why TTR were asking why Mr J wasnt completing other 
modules while waiting to resolve the exam issue, Im mindful the welcome pack did state the 
course should be completed in a certain order. So I can appreciate why Mr J wanted to 
complete one part before moving on to the next. 
Ive also thought about what Mr J has said in that his ability to study was affected because of 
the way Covid-19 impacted him as a key worker. Mr J said under normal circumstances, he 
was allowed time at work to complete studies. But during lockdown he had to take on extra 
responsibilities at work. He also said it was difficult to study in the evening because he has a 
disabled partner and three children to care for. Mr J has said it was a very stressful time. 
And Im sorry to hear how difficult it was. It cant have been easy. 
Im mindful Ive found the terms relating to the extension could have been clearer. And you 
could argue Mr Js situation was extraordinary  his work was impacted by Covid-19, and his 
ability to book the exam he wanted was impacted too. So I think a fairer outcome for him would have been for TTR to have offered him the extension at no cost. So Im minded to say 
it should refund him the £190 extension fee to resolve the complaint, together with interest. 
TTR agreed with the provisional decision and asked if it could offset any refund against 
arrears.
Mr J responded to highlight he was unhappy with the way the course was sold. In summary, 
he said he wasnt given enough time to properly think about what he was entering into, and 
that TTR pressured him to enter into the agreement. He wants TTR to be warned to protect 
other customers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Js response and what hes said about the way the course was sold. 
Mr J has indicated TTR used aggressive sales techniques to sell the course and associated 
credit agreement. And that he wasnt given enough time to take everything on board. These 
are slightly different arguments to what was submitted originally by Mr J. But Ive thought 
about whether anything hes said changes my mind.
Having already listened to a couple of the calls between TTR and Mr J leading up to when 
he entered the agreement, I dont find there are grounds to say TTR was aggressive in the 
way it sold the course. It checked to see if Mr J was able to talk and let him know what would 
happen if he decided to sign up for the course. The advisor asked if Mr J had any questions, 
but he said everything had been covered. 
I can see TTR let Mr J know the price of the course was due to increase, meaning he could 
lose out if he didnt sign up. I agree firms arent meant to mislead customers with regards to 
the price. And it would be unfair to use aggressive practices. But Im not persuaded theres 
sufficient evidence thats what happened here. There isnt enough evidence to demonstrate 
Mr J was deceived with regards to the price. I think TTR did enough to check in with him to 
see if he was happy to apply for the credit agreement. I cant see he was rushed or forced to 
talk at a bad time. He seemed quite willing to proceed on the basis of the calls Ive listened 
to. 
Im also mindful TTR let Mr J know he had 14 days to cancel. So he had the option to cancel 
if he was unsure or unhappy about anything hed been told. Moreover, I appreciate Mr J 
says he didnt understand everything he was told on the phone, but thats not what he said to 
TTR when it checked. And I do have to bear in mind TTR also sent out details of the course 
in writing to Mr J too, as I said in the provisional decision. 
While I appreciate Mr J might be disappointed, on weighing everything up, I dont find his 
response has led me to change my mind on what I said in the provisional decision. Ill leave 
it up to Mr J to decide if he wishes to accept this decision. If he does accept it, he may wish 
to discuss with TTR whether he wants to offset any refund against arrears. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct TTR PT Limited to:
Refund Mr J £190, together with 8% simple annual interest from the date the 
payment was made to the date of settlement. 
If TTR considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman