DRN-2849641
The complaint
Mr J complains about the level of service provided by Hyperformance Ltd In administering 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J took out a policy through Hyperformance and it renewed twice before Mr J cancelled his 
policy mid-term. Hyperformance then asked Mr J to pay the rest of his years premium. Mr J 
was unhappy with this. He said he hadnt been provided with policy documents at renewal, 
so he didnt know the cancellation terms. He said hed asked for his premium to be 
recalculated as an open claim had been closed, but Hyperformance hadnt responded. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Hyperformance should provide Mr J with proof that the policy documents had been sent to 
him. He thought Hyperformance had provided Mr J with enough information about the 
cancellation charges when he took out the policy and so it was fair to apply them. 
But he thought Hyperformance hadnt responded to Mr Js request for it to rerate his 
premium after an open claim was closed. And he thought it hadnt provided a clear 
statement of what he still owed for his policy. So he thought Hyperformance should 
recalculate Mr Js premium and refund any premium due, provide a clear breakdown of the 
final statement, and pay Mr J £100 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Hyperformance said Mr Js insurer would not rerate the premium if the claim had been 
closed. It said it had asked Mr J to send it proof of the closed claim to update his policy, but 
he hadnt done this. It said it had provided Mr J with a clear breakdown of how his 
outstanding premium was calculated. A manager had tried to call Mr J without success. So it 
thought £20 compensation was warranted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr J wanted clear information about what the charges would be when 
he cancelled his policy. I can see that hes accepted the investigators explanation that this 
was clearly brought to his attention when he bought the policy and it was also set out in his 
renewal documents. 
So I think Mr J had sufficient information to then understand the cancellation charges and so 
I cant say it was unfair for Hyperformance to apply them. Hyperformance has explained that 
its initial cancellation quote didnt take into account a pending direct debit. So I think its 
explanation of the final cancellation charges is fair and reasonable. And so I wont consider 
these aspects of Mr Js complaint further here. 
Mr J was of the understanding that his premium would be re-rated once the open claim was 
closed. I cant see any evidence that Hyperformance told him this in any of his calls. 
Hyperformance has since told us that the insurer wouldnt rerate a premium due to a closed 
claim as it didnt rate on No Claims Discount. But I cant see that this was explained to Mr J. 
Instead, Mr J had the understanding that the closed claim would make a difference. He 
asked for this to be added to his complaint, but it wasnt addressed by Hyperformance. And 
he asked several times to speak to a manager about it. A manager tried to call Mr J, but he 
misread his number. I cant see that any other means were used to try and contact Mr J. So 
Mr J was left with the impression that no one had called him in response to his concern. 
Hyperformance said it was waiting for Mr J to send in proof that his claim had been closed. 
But I cant see that this is relevant as this wouldnt have made a difference to his premium in 
any case. 
I think the lack of response to Mr Js repeated concerns about the effect of the closed claim 
on his premium was an error made by Hyperformance. When a business makes a mistake, 
as I think Hyperformance has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as 
far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
Mr J now has clear information about the effect of the closed claim on his premium. But I 
think he was caused avoidable frustration by Hyperformances level of service in not 
explaining this earlier and in not responding to his requests for a call. 
Hyperformance offered to pay Mr J £20 compensation for this. But I dont think thats 
sufficient in the circumstances. The investigator recommended that Hyperformance should 
pay Mr J £100 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as I think it reflects 
the impact the error had on Mr J and its in keeping with our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Hyperformance Ltd to pay Mr J £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Hyperformance Ltd to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman