DRN-4197586
The complaint
Ms D complains about how China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (CTI) handled a claim she 
made against a commercial buildings insurance policy. CTI are the underwriters (insurers) of 
this policy. 
Much of this complaint concerns the actions of their appointed agents. As CTI accept they 
are accountable for the actions of their agents, in my decision, any reference to CTI should 
be interpreted as also covering the actions of their appointed agents. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Ms D and CTI. In my decision, Ill focus 
mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Ms D made a claim against a commercial buildings insurance policy after flooding to the 
block of flats in which she lived in 2021. CTI accepted the claim. Ms D moved into nearby 
alternative accommodation to allow the repair works to take place. 
Ms D was later unhappy and complained to CTI about how long the repair works took to 
complete and wanted to be reimbursed for additional alternative accommodation costs and 
council tax costs. She also felt that the use of her property for storing building materials 
contributed to delays. 
CTI didnt uphold her complaint and said that the delays were primarily caused by Ms D 
choosing to have her own private refurbishment works carried out at the same time as the 
insurance claim works.
Unhappy with CTIs response to her complaint, Ms D referred her complaint to our Service 
for an independent review. Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend 
that the majority of the complaint be upheld, but did say that Ms D should be reimbursed for 
paying council tax at the alternative accommodation address. As neither party accepted the 
Investigators assessment, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service as an alternative, informal 
dispute resolution Service. Im making an on balance finding based on the evidence. Thats 
different to the test applied by the Courts. 
The time taken 
Its not in dispute that this claim didnt progress as smoothly as either party would have liked. 
Ms D says that the use of her property by CTIs builders and the lack of sufficient numbers of 
contractors caused the delays shes experienced here. In support of her position shes 
provided a statement from a Chartered surveyor. 
I note that throughout her complaint Ms D referenced having a key witness (a contractor who 
worked on the job) shed be able to call upon in support of her complaint. Im satisfied that 
Ms D has had ample opportunity to provide any evidence she wanted to - notwithstanding 
she told us she needed to wait until after August 2023 to do so. Ms D let us know in June 
2023 that she may be able to provide the further evidence within 4-6 weeks and has been in 
contact with our Service since - but nothing has been provided. 
On the other hand, CTI say that the delays were due to Ms D having various refurbishment 
works carried out alongside the insurance claim repairs. They say but for Ms Ds private 
works being carried out, their own claim related works should have taken a maximum of 
around 16 weeks. 
I find that its almost inevitable that Ms D having refurbishment works (for example; an en 
suite added, additional rewiring and underfloor heating) will have contributed to the overall 
claim repair taking longer. I note that Ms D used CTIs appointed agents for some of these 
works. Unless that agent sent extra tradespeople to her property, the time spent on the 
refurbishment works will invariably have taken away from the time theyd have been 
spending on the claim repair works.
Ive placed appropriate weight on the professional opinion of an experienced Chartered 
surveyor who lived in the same block of flats as Ms D and had attended various site 
meetings, but Ive to balance this against them being known to Ms D and its unlikely theyd 
submit evidence that didnt support her case. Different variables - such as the actual works 
being completed will impact the overall time taken. 
Ive then considered Ms Ds points about the work taking place on two other flats at the 
same time as hers. I dont find it unusual or irregular that CTI (their agents) would have 
treated the three properties as one site. Given Ive seen no persuasive evidence to allow 
me to fairly conclude this negatively impacted the time taken or caused other detriment to 
Ms D (as she wasnt living in the property at that time), it follows that I wont be asking CTI to 
pay Ms D any storage costs for the use of her property or garage.
Its generally accepted that there is a skills shortage within the UK construction industry due 
to a range of macro-economic factors. Im not persuaded that CTI were negligent in 
appointing the chosen contractor or that this is the proximate cause for the delay in Ms D 
returning to her property. Builders will take holidays and this may mean less gets done 
during that period of time. 
Briefly, Im also not at all persuaded that Ms D has lost out by not having use of her garage. 
Various emails have been provided by Ms D which she says showed third party interest in 
renting her garage. But it remains that no informal or contractual arrangement was in place 
prior to the loss  so this is a hypothetical loss that wasnt realised, in my opinion. 
The alternative accommodation offer
CTI have shown how long their scheduled works should have taken and I note theyve made 
an additional allowance when calculating the alternative accommodation settlement. Overall, 
Im satisfied that the offer of £24,000 is fair, reasonable and proportionate. They dont need 
to bridge the alternative accommodation gap that Ms D is claiming for. 
Other costs  council tax CTI have rejected our Investigators recommendation that they cover Ms Ds council tax bill 
at the second address whilst repair works were happening. They are correct that the policy 
doesnt specifically mention council tax. For clarity Im following our Services fair and 
reasonable remit here. Im satisfied that if council tax costs were incurred at the alternative 
accommodation address then this is a consequential loss suffered by Ms D. This can be 
traced back to the insured peril that the policy has responded to here  the flood. 
CTI will have needed to take steps to approve the alternative accommodation. Normally in 
these scenarios (where AA is being provided), the insurer will either incorporate these costs 
into any settlement, directly arrange payment themselves or reimburse the customer subject 
to reasonable proof of payment. What CTI may have done (or not done) for other policy 
holders in this block is irrelevant to my decision. CTI are not liable for council tax costs at the 
insured address  as these were payable by Ms D regardless of the claim event or not. 
However, she has incurred an additional cost of council tax at a second address as a result 
of an insured peril. 
Subject to Ms D providing reasonable proof  either copies of the relevant council tax bills (at 
the second address) being in her name, or (as is often the case) a contract or other 
paperwork that clearly supports she incurred these costs, CTI need to reimburse her for her 
costs for the same length of time theyve recognised the repair works would have taken. 8% 
simple interest per annum should also be added from the date Ms D can show she made 
payment until the date that any settlement is paid to her. 
My decision will likely disappoint Ms D, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in 
informally trying to resolve her dispute with CTI. She has mentioned legal action throughout 
this complaint and retains all other dispute resolution options. However, Ms D should 
consider her next steps before deciding whether or not to accept my decision: 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/who-we-are/make-decisions
Putting things right
Subject to Ms D providing reasonable proof of her additional council tax costs at the 
alternative accommodation address, China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd now need to 
reimburse her for these costs. This is for the same time period that China Taiping Insurance 
(UK) Co Ltd agreed to pay for alternative accommodation. 
China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd should also add 8% simple interest from the date Ms D 
made payment (subject to reasonable proof) until the date any settlement is paid to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co 
Ltd now need to follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman