DRN-4141222
The complaint
Mrs S complains FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (Fund Ourselves) gave her a loan which 
she couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
Mrs S was advanced one loan by Fund Ourselves on 18 May 2022 for £300. Mrs S was due 
to make four monthly repayments of £135.60. Fund Ourselves says the first payment was 
made late, but no other payments have been made since. It has also confirmed the account 
defaulted in October 2022. 
Following Mrs Ss complaint Fund Ourselves wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to 
uphold it because it had carried out affordability checks before the loan was granted.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs S referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt think Mrs Ss complaint 
should be upheld because Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks which showed it 
Mrs S would be able to afford the loan. 
In addition, he also said, that Fund Ourselves was entitled to contact Mrs S to chase 
payment towards the loan and it didnt have to accept the £50 offer made by her to settle the 
account balance. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. But no further comments or evidence 
were provided. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to 
resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mrs S could afford to pay back the 
amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mrs Ss income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors 
include:
Mrs S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs S. As there was only one loan the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied to Mrs Ss complaint. 
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mrs S could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs S was able 
to repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ss complaint.
As part of her application, Mrs S declared a full-time monthly income of £1,720. Mrs S also 
declared monthly outgoings of £995 to cover several different items including, food, other 
credit commitments and utilities. 
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information Mrs S provided that she had enough 
disposable income to be able to afford her monthly repayments of £135.60. As it was a first 
loan, I also think it was reasonable of Fund Ourselves to have relied on the information 
Mrs S had provided to it. 
Fund Ourselves also carried out a credit search and it has provided a summary of the results 
it received from the credit reference agency. Ive reviewed the credit check results, there 
isnt anything in the results that wouldve indicated that Mrs S was having immediate 
financial difficulties. It knew that she had several credit cards, that were all up near the credit 
limit but that alone wouldnt be enough to uphold the complaint. 
Given there was only one loan, I think it was reasonable for Fund Ourselves to have relied 
on the information Mrs S provided about her income and expenditure which showed she 
could afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mrs S was 
having either current financial difficulties or anything to suggest that these loan repayments 
would be unsustainable for her. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Mrs Ss complaint about Fund Ourselves 
decision to lend.  
Other considerations 
Mrs S has said in her complaint form that she offered to pay £50 to settle the outstanding 
balance. And given what Mrs S has said, the offer wasnt accepted. But it is for Fund Ourselves (or its agents) to determine whether it wishes to accept the offer to close the 
account. And so, I wouldnt be able to say Fund Ourselves has made an error by rejecting 
the offer. 
I thank Mrs S for disclosing to the Financial Ombudsman her health problems and how this 
was caused.  Moving forward Fund Ourselves and its agents will need to take this into 
account. But in saying that, given a loan was advanced, and payments havent been made 
as expected, I do think it was reasonable for Funds Ourselves to have taken steps to recover 
payment. 
And Fund Ourselves wasnt told about Mrs Ss problems when the loan was advanced, so it 
couldnt, if needed, make any adjustments to the communication with Mrs S. I understand, 
from Mrs S, that it now communicates to her through her private email address (rather than 
her work address) which is reasonable. 
Fund Ourselves, in response to further enquires, has confirmed the debt was initially passed 
to a third party (with Fund Ourselves remaining the legal owners of the debt). As payment or 
a payment plan hasnt, as far as I am aware, been agreed the third party has now been 
passed to another third party which is regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA). 
Finally, an outstanding balance remains, and Fund Ourselves should ensure that it (or its 
agents) treats Mrs S fairly and with forbearance when discussing the repayment of the 
account. It will also need to consider Mrs Ss ongoing health problems. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman