DRN-2831636
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
  
What happened
Ms B held a credit card account  ending 1003 - with Barclays and cleared the balance in 
June 2014. Ms B then opened a new credit card account  ending 3002  with Barclays in 
June 2016 with an initial limit of £9,100. In January 2018, the limit was increased to £12,100. 
Later in 2018, Ms B experienced financial difficulties and couldnt keep up her repayments. 
Ms B missed repayments which led to her account moving through Barclays collections and 
recoveries process. A default was registered and the account was transferred to another 
company. Ms B complained to Barclays and said, around the time of her application for 
account ending 3002, her credit information wouldve shown lots of recent short-term 
lending, defaults and a previous debt management plan. She said Barclays didnt therefore 
carry out proper checks.    
Barclays responded and said, when they open an account, or increase a credit limit, they 
carry out various checks including a credit check. They said they would never open an 
account or increase a credit limit if they felt a customer wouldnt be able to manage a fully 
utilised credit limit. Barclays said Ms B passed their affordability checks and there was no 
evidence from Ms Bs credit file to suggest she was struggling financially. Barclays said Ms B 
did have the option to reduce her credit limit at any time if she felt it was too high. Barclays 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms B referred her complaint to our service and said Barclays had lent to her irresponsibly in 
relation to account ending 1003 and 3002. Barclays felt the complaint relating to account 
1003 was out of time as this account was opened in 2008 and closed in June 2014. They 
also said they had very limited information about this account due to the passage of time.  
Our investigator looked into things for Ms B. She thought the complaint relating to account 
ending 1003 was out of time. And, in relation to account ending 3002, she thought Barclays 
hadnt carried out sufficient checks and had lent irresponsibly. She recommended Barclays 
rework Ms Bs credit card balance after removing all interest and charges and remove any 
adverse information from Ms Bs credit file. Barclays disagreed so the matter has come to 
me for a decision.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Complaint about account ending 1003
The rules that govern the time limits for when a consumer can bring a complaint are set out 
in the FCAs Handbook. The relevant one, DISP 2.8.2 R, says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
The only exceptions to this are where: the complainant has written confirmation of having 
complained to the respondent business within that time; there are exceptional 
circumstances; or where the respondent business agrees to us considering the complaint.
The complaint here relates to Barclays decision to lend to Ms B by opening a credit card 
account in August 2008. Ms B brought her complaint to our service in August 2020. This 
means Ms Bs complaint was brought out of time under the first part of the rule. So, the issue 
at hand is whether Ms B became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware of 
cause for complaint, more than three years before she made her complaint.
To decide this, it is necessary to consider the nature of the complaint that has been raised. 
The complaint is that Barclays lent irresponsibly, and the repayments were unaffordable. 
Barclays say its been more than six years since the account was closed and its been more 
than three years since Ms B ought reasonably to have been aware she had cause for 
complaint. 
To conclude that Ms B was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware of her cause for 
complaint, I think the facts of this case have to suggest that she was aware or she ought 
reasonably to have been aware of the following:
a. That there was a problem  which in this case, means the credit card repayments 
caused her financial difficulties;
b.   This unaffordable lending caused her a financial loss; and
c.    It was Barclays acts or omissions that may have caused that loss.
Barclays have provided a credit card statement which shows Ms B made a final payment in 
June 2014 and this account was closed. Ms B says she struggled to make repayments on 
this account. I believe there were financial difficulties and problems faced by Ms B as the 
statement shows Ms Bs credit limit as zero. And, based on the testimony provided by Ms B, 
I believe the credit facility was removed due to Ms B struggling to make repayments. Its 
clear then that Ms B wouldve been experiencing financial difficulties in June 2014  and I 
believe this is when Ms B ought reasonably to have been aware there was a problem. So, I 
think a is satisfied. 
Barclays say they have very limited information relating to this account as more than six 
years have passed since the account was closed. So, I havent been provided with any 
evidence which shows when the unaffordable lending caused Ms B a financial loss. But, Ms 
B does say that, at the point Barclays provided her with the second credit card in June 2016, 
she had only just paid off her debt management plan. 
I havent seen any evidence of when this happened but if I take this as being June 2016, 
then I think Ms B would reasonably have known at this point that the repayments on the first 
credit card account had caused financial consequences. So, I think b is also satisfied. Ive then looked further into when Ms B ought reasonably to have been aware that Barclays 
actions mightve been responsible for this. 
Ms B says she believes her financial difficulties started with Barclays providing her with a 
second credit card account in June 2016 when she had only just paid off her debt 
management plan. This suggests that Ms B was, or ought reasonably to have been aware, 
that Barclays mightve been responsible for her financial difficulties. By Ms Bs own 
admission, she made a link between Barclays decision to lend to her again and her financial 
difficulties. And, while Ms B is referring to Barclays lending decision for account ending 
3002, I believe Ms B ought reasonably to have also made a link between those financial 
difficulties and account ending 1003 given that it was the same lender. So, I think c is also 
satisfied  and I believe the three years to have started in June 2016. When applying, DISP 
2.8.2 R, this means the latest date Ms B had to raise her complaint was three years from 
that point which would be June 2019, so it has been made out of time.   
Barclays dont consent to our service looking into this part of the complaint, so Ive 
considered whether there are any exceptional circumstances that apply. DISP 2.8.4 G, says 
an example of exceptional circumstances might be where the complainant has been or is 
incapacitated. Ms B has told our service about very difficult personal circumstances she 
faced in 2011. I am very sorry to hear about those circumstances and do acknowledge it was 
a difficult time in Ms Bs life. But, I dont feel this is an exceptional circumstance that covers 
the entire period Ms B didnt refer the complaint to our service. In the intervening period,    
Ms B did take out another credit card with Barclays in 2016 so I dont feel Ms B was 
prevented from bringing her complaint at this point.  
Complaint about account ending 3002
Ms Bs credit card agreement sets out the terms and conditions of her account. This says 
Barclays will review her credit limit from time to time and if they increase her credit limit 
theyll give her 30 days notice. They say when Ms B receives the notice she can tell them 
not to increase it. The terms and conditions say Barclays wont increase Ms Bs credit limit if 
they think she cant afford to make the repayments. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Barclays needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms B could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Barclays carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Barclays needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the 
sources of information Barclays may have wanted to consider as part of making a 
proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers 
to whether the information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional 
information from the customer and any other sources of information to use.    
Barclays is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, when opening the 
account, Barclays considered information including Ms Bs income and expenditure and 
details of any other borrowing and how Ms B was performing on these accounts. Given what this information shows, I dont think the checks carried out by Barclays are reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances. The income and expenditure assessment shows Ms Bs 
income as £30,000 and her total monthly expenditure as £1,563.64. Ms Bs monthly 
disposable income is noted as £360.26. And, application checks carried out by Barclays 
show Ms B has seven open accounts, with two of these being bank accounts. It shows      
Ms Bs balance in the bank accounts as £352 and £411. Ms B is then given a credit card 
with an initial limit of £9,100. The credit limit represents approximately 30% of Ms Bs gross 
annual salary. In these circumstances, and given what the checks show, I think Barclays 
shouldve carried out further checks. And, I think Barclays shouldve asked to see Ms Bs 
bank statements to see how she was managing her accounts in view of the fact they were 
showing a low balance.   
Given that I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were completed in this case, 
the next point Ive considered is, if reasonable and proportionate checks had been 
completed, would they more likely than not have shown that Ms B was more likely than not 
unable to sustainably repay what she was being lent. 
To help decide this, Ive looked at Ms Bs bank statements for the three months leading up to 
the opening of her credit card account. This shows Ms Bs net monthly income as £1,651.82 
(worked out as an average over three months). So, deducting Ms Bs monthly expenditure 
from this figure leaves a monthly disposable income of £88.18. Ms Bs bank statement also 
shows she was in overdraft from 8 March to 10 March and again from 12 March to 30 March 
and is charged an unarranged overdraft usage fee. Ms B is again in overdraft from 8 April to 
29 April and is charged an unarranged overdraft usage fee. Ms B is then again in overdraft 
from 3 May to 28 May. The bank statement also shows Ms B takes out three payday loans 
over 11 days which she uses to bring down the overdrawn balance on her bank account.      
Taking this all into account, I dont think Ms Bs bank statements show she would be able to 
repay any borrowing in a sustainable manner. Its clear Ms B was taking out payday loans to 
service other debts  in this case, to lower her overdraft on her bank account. And, I think its 
important to note that even when each of those payday loans are paid into Ms Bs bank 
account, it still doesnt bring her balance into credit. The only time Ms Bs account is in credit 
is when her salary is paid in, and even then her bank account only stays in credit for a few 
days. So, I feel if Barclays had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks it wouldve 
showed Ms B being in a difficult financial position and needing short term loans to either 
meet other repayment liabilities or to otherwise make ends meet. This wouldve highlighted 
that Ms B wouldnt be able to repay the extra credit in a sustainable manner and without any 
undue difficulty. 
  
Given that I think Barclays lent irresponsibly to Ms B by opening a credit card account with a 
limit of £9,100, it follows that I think the later increase to £12,100 was also irresponsible. At 
this point, the credit limit represents 40% of Ms Bs income and, given what Ive said about 
the information Barclays shouldve taken into consideration when opening the account  and 
what that wouldve shown  it follows, if the £9,100 wasnt affordable or sustainable for her in 
the longer term then neither was the credit limit increase. This is particularly the case as I 
havent seen any information which shows Ms Bs financial position improved between the 
account opening and the credit limit increase. 
I note Barclays say they increased Ms Bs credit limit as she was managing her account well 
and they cant see Ms B asked for her limit to be reduced. Ms Bs credit card statements, 
from the opening of the account to the point her credit limit is increased, do show her making 
payments on time and generally higher than the minimum payment amount. But, I dont think 
this should be looked at in isolation. Ms B says she was relying heavily on payday loans and Ive already mentioned Ms Bs bank statements show how she was using payday loans to 
service other debts. In addition to this, Ms B also brought debt of £4,758.12 from other 
lenders to her Barclays account. I understand Barclays say this was so Ms B could take 
advantage of the 0% interest on balance transfers they were offering on the account, but it 
also shows Ms B using a credit facility to move around debt. The debt remains, but its just 
owed to another lender. I agree Ms B didnt ask for the limit to be reduced, but given Ms Bs 
financial circumstances, I dont think she wouldve declined the offer of additional credit or 
asked for it to be reduced. 
Its clear theres a change in circumstances in June 2018 when Ms B contacts Barclays to 
say she wont be able to maintain her repayments as her income would be reduced. The 
financial difficulties brought about by this lead to Ms B making no further repayments. I note 
Barclays say they werent aware of this change in circumstances at the time the lending 
decisions were made but the lack of proportionate checks has led to Barclays making 
lending decisions which left Ms B in a position where she couldnt afford repayments on 
borrowing which I think Barclays shouldnt have offered.  
Barclays say approving an application or increasing a credit limit doesnt increase a 
customers debt, its the use of a credit card that increases the balance. Barclays say they 
arent responsible for how a customer chooses to use their account. I note this but Barclays 
are under a duty to ensure they complete proportionate checks to ensure any borrowing is 
sustainable. And, as Ive set out above, had the checks which I think wouldve been 
reasonable and proportionate in this case been completed, they wouldve highlighted that  
Ms B was more likely than not unable to sustainably repay what she was being lent when the 
account was opened. 
In response to our investigators view, Barclays have provided information from a specific 
Credit Reference Agency (CRA) which shows data they took into account to calculate an 
Income Confidence Factor (ICF). They say this is a measure of the CRAs confidence in 
Ms Bs income and Barclays will only increase a credit limit where the CRA has confidence 
this is affordable. Barclays have provided a spreadsheet for Ms Bs account which shows a 
detailed breakdown of the information considered when applying the credit limit increase. 
For Ms Bs account, in the month prior to the credit limit increase, the ICF is greater than six. 
Looking at the code provided by Barclays, this suggests the CRA has taken into 
consideration Ms Bs income based on current account data. 
Looking at the information in the spreadsheet, I dont disagree theres relevant information 
here to help Barclays build a reasonable profile of Ms Bs suitability for a credit limit increase. 
But, in the circumstances of this case, I remain of the view Barclays didnt carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks when opening the account  and the credit limit 
increase is a consequence of that same line of irresponsible lending. The information in the 
spreadsheet focusses more on income but the factors I feel are most relevant in this case 
are Ms Bs increased reliance on payday loans and the consistent and continuous periods of 
being in overdraft with her bank. These factors shouldve acted as clear indicators to 
Barclays that Ms B would struggle to repay the additional credit in a sustainable manner.       
Taking this all into account, I think Barclays have acted unreasonably in opening Ms Bs 
account with a credit limit of £9,100. I can see Ms B wants Barclays to clear her balance. It 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask Barclays to do that as Ms B has had the benefit of the 
money she has borrowed so its fair that she should pay the principal amount back.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Barclays lent irresponsibly to Ms B when they opened her account 
with a credit limit of £9,100. I therefore consider this is irresponsible lending and Barclays 
should put this right. So, they should refund all interest, fees and charges accrued or incurred on Ms Bs account from the opening of the account. This would put Ms B back in 
the position she would have been in were it not for the lending decisions taken by Barclays. 
Any refund should be deducted from the amount Ms B owes on the account and if this 
results in there being an outstanding balance on the account, then Barclays should contact 
Ms B to arrange a suitable and affordable repayment plan.  
If however, after the refund is deducted, this results in there being a credit balance in Ms Bs 
favour, Barclays must pay this amount to Ms B together with 8% simple interest, calculated 
from the dates of any overpayments to the date that the payment is made to Ms B. 
If the balance has already been cleared then Barclays should pay the refund to Ms B 
together with 8% simple interest, calculated from the dates of any overpayments to the date 
that the payment is made to Ms B.   
If there is such a refund, then Barclays should provide Ms B with a certificate showing any 
taxation deducted.
Barclays must also remove all adverse reporting from Ms Bs credit file for this account from 
the opening of the account onwards.
If Barclays have sold Ms Bs debt, then they should buy the account back and take the steps 
above. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things 
right above.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman