DRN-4273603
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has declined an insurance 
claim she made for water damage to a property she owns. Mrs K is also unhappy RSA 
cancelled insurance cover for another property she owns.
What happened
Mrs K owns two properties which were both previously let out. They were both insured under 
one landlord commercial insurance policy underwritten by RSA.
In May 2022, when the tenant left, Mrs K decided to sell one of the insured properties. Mrs K 
put it up for sale and it remained unoccupied whilst awaiting a buyer. 
In December 2022 there was an escape of water following a burst pipe in the attic, which 
caused extensive damage. So, Mrs K contacted RSA to make a claim.
However, RSA declined the claim. This is because they said they were unaware the property 
was unoccupied, and they referred to the policy terms and conditions which they say 
outlined the claim wasnt covered.
As Mrs K was unhappy with the claim decision, she asked for the insurance cover for this 
property to be cancelled and a refund of premiums. RSA agreed to this. However, they 
should have removed that property from the policy, and left the other property insured, but 
instead they cancelled the policy completely.
Mrs K noticed the direct debit for the second property hadnt been taken and discovered the 
policy had been cancelled in error by RSA. Ultimately RSA accepted their error. Mrs K didnt 
want the policy reinstating, so RSA offered to pay any difference in premiums for the new 
policy she had, pro-rata for the time that the cancelled policy was due to run for. In addition, 
they also paid £75 compensation.
Mrs K remained unhappy and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt uphold it. She thought RSA 
had fairly declined the claim. And whilst she recognised the whole policy had been cancelled 
in error, she thought RSAs offer in relation to this was reasonable. So, the investigator didnt 
recommend RSA do anything further.
Mrs K didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs K, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
As there are two separate complaint points, the claim decision, and the cancellation of cover 
for Mrs Ks other property, Ill consider each separately below.
The claim decision
Mrs K had a tenant in her property, and they moved out. So, Mrs K decided to sell the 
property and put it up for sale. The tenant moved out at the start of May 2022 (before 
Mrs Ks policy renewed at the end of May 2022) and the property was unoccupied from then 
onwards. 
In December 2022 a pipe burst in the attic causing extensive water damage, so Mrs K 
contacted RSA to make a claim.
Mrs K made RSA aware the property was unoccupied and had been for some time as it was 
up for sale. RSA declined the claim as Mrs K hadnt made them aware the property was 
unoccupied, and the policy didnt cover damage caused when the property was unoccupied, 
when RSA hadnt been made aware of this. 
Mrs K says she wasnt made aware that she needed to tell RSA it was unoccupied, and if 
she had been, she would have told them. 
However, Mrs Ks renewal scheduled outlined:
These details are a record of the information provided to us and of the assumptions 
we have made about you and will form part of the Policy terms and conditions. Your 
Policy Wording, Schedule and Employers Liability certificate (if applicable) are 
evidence of your insurance contract. Please check they are correct and call us 
without undue delay on (number) if you need to change anything or if you require a 
new Policy Wording.
And:
Important Notes
You must answer our questions to the best of your knowledge and belief. If any of 
these details are incorrect or change you must tell us without undue delay. Not doing 
so may invalidate the insurance or result in claims being rejected or reduced. We 
may reassess your cover, terms and premiums when we are told about changes in 
your circumstances. You can call us on (number) to tell us about any further changes 
or if any part of this Schedule/Statement of Fact is not correct.And:
The information shown in this document is a record of the information you have 
provided to us. We have used it to assess your eligibility for this insurance and also 
to determine your premium and the terms and conditions that will apply. You should 
tell us if any of the information in this document is incorrect or changes. Not doing so 
may invalidate this insurance or result in claims being rejected or reduced.
And the renewal documents also confirmed about the property in question:
(Address)
The residential part of the buildings are occupied by a private individual(s) under an 
assured shorthold tenancy for a period of not less than 6 months.
However, at the point the policy renewed in 2022, the tenant had already vacated so this 
wasnt correct. But Mrs K didnt advise RSA of this, despite the documents explaining RSA 
needed to be made aware if any details were incorrect.
Within the policy terms and conditions, this defines unoccupied as:
Unoccupied
Unoccupied or empty or disused or unfurnished or untenanted or no longer in active 
use
The terms and conditions also explain:
It is a requirement of this Insurance under Property Damage Insurance that from the 
date that You become aware that any Building or portion thereof becomes Unoccupied 
for any continuous period exceeding 45 consecutive days that:
A) You must tell Us immediately

C) All water supplies including any heating system be kept drained unless required 
to operate a sprinkler system approved by Us, in which case heating should be 
kept at no less than 4 degrees Celsius between 1 October and 30 April inclusive
.
Failure to comply with any of these requirements will result in Us not paying Your 
Property Damage claim.
But Mrs K didnt comply with this or contact RSA to make them aware at the renewal, once 
45 days had elapsed, or any point after.
The policy terms also outline escape of water from any appliance, tank or pipe is covered 
more generally, but it also has the following specific exclusion for this section of the policy:
What is not covered
Damage where any Building or parts therefore have been Unoccupied for more than 
45 days.Having considered all the information provided, Im satisfied all the documents were clear in 
explaining Mrs K needed to contact RSA if any of the details were incorrect and if the 
property was unoccupied, but she didnt do so. And the policy terms are also clear that 
damage caused as a result of an escape of water when the property is unoccupied is 
excluded.
With this in mind, I dont think RSA has acted unreasonably by declining Mrs Ks escape of 
water claim.
The policy cancellation 
Mrs Ks landlords commercial property insurance covered two properties under the one 
policy. After the claim was declined, Mrs K asked RSA to cancel the cover for the damaged 
unoccupied property. RSA agreed, and also agreed to refund the premiums Mrs K had been 
charged for the unoccupied property.
However, in error, RSA cancelled the whole policy. This means the other property was 
uninsured from that point. 
Mrs K didnt discover this until she noticed a direct debit hadnt been taken around six weeks 
later. As she was unable to contact RSA as it was the weekend, and she was concerned 
about the lack of cover, she purchased another insurance policy elsewhere.
RSA accept they made an error here by cancelling the policy, rather than removing one 
property from the cover. They offered to reinstate the cover, but this was no longer required 
by Mrs K as she already had a policy elsewhere. So instead, RSA said that it would cover 
any difference in the cost for the other policy, pro-rata, up to the point the cancelled policy 
should have run to at renewal  around four months. And additionally, RSA paid £75 
compensation.
I do recognise it would have been distressing for Mrs K to discover one of her properties was 
uninsured. But fortunately, nothing happened to the property during this time. And when 
Mrs K became aware, she arranged cover elsewhere, so at that point she knew her property 
was no longer at risk, and nothing had happened to it. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to recommend compensation be paid on the basis something disastrous couldve 
happened to the uninsured property but didnt. But I do recognise it would have been 
distressing to find this out at the time.
However, I think the £75 compensation RSA paid, along with the offer to cover the difference 
of the new policy, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, so Im not directing RSA to 
do anything further.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman