DRN-2943811
The complaint
 Mr O is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 28 November 2020, Mr O was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. The agreement was for £5,579 over 60 months; with 
monthly repayments of £133.40. At the time, the car was almost five years old and had done 
92,800 miles.
The car broke down on 8 February 2021 and was repaired. But the car broke down again on 
29 March 2021 and Close Brothers allowed Mr O to reject the car. They refunded some of 
the payments Mr O had made; reimbursed him for the insurance and road tax hed paid 
while he wasnt able to use the car; reimbursed him for the cost of servicing the car; and paid 
him an additional £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr O wasnt happy with the compensation Close Brothers paid  he thought they should also 
cover the costs of taxis hed had to use while he was without use of the car. And he didnt 
think the £150 took into consideration the affect that not having access to a car had on his 
family. So he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said he thought the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied, but 
Close Brothers had acted reasonably by allowing Mr O to reject it. So he considered this part 
of the complaint had been resolved. And, while he thought that Close Brothers had acted 
reasonably by refunding the monthly payments, road tax, insurance, and servicing costs; he 
thought they should also have paid Mr O statutory interest on the payment refund.
The investigator didnt think that Close Brothers should pay Mr O his taxi costs as well as 
refunding the monthly payments, as this would be compensating him twice for the same 
thing. And he thought that the £150 Close Brothers had offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances. So he didnt think this needed to be increased. He also said that, while not 
having use of the car also impacted Mr Os family, we were only able to consider the impact 
on Mr O, as he was Close Brothers customer.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He provided bank statements showing hed spent 
£486.71 on taxis and bus fares between 30 March and 28 April 2021. He said that, while 
most of this was the cost of him travelling to and from work, it also included some other 
expenses used by my family. 
Close Brothers also didnt agree with the investigator. While they agreed statutory interest 
should be paid on any deposit refund, because the customer wouldnt have access to funds 
they otherwise would have; they didnt think this should apply to monthly payments, because 
its expected that customers should be paying this anyway. And they said that, in other 
cases considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service, statutory interest hadnt been 
added to monthly payment refunds.
Because neither party agreed with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr O was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Close 
Brothers are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Close Brothers can show otherwise. But, where a fault is 
identified after the first six months, its for Mr O to show that it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr O took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put 
this right.
Ive seen from the evidence that the car originally broke down on 7 February 2021. And 
Close Brothers paid for a replacement turbo pipe. There were other issues with the car 
relating to the tyres, battery, windscreen wipers and a lack of recent servicing. The cost of 
these was covered by the supplying dealership as a gesture of goodwill.
The car broke down again on 29 March 2021 due to an engine failure, which seemed to be 
caused by the fuel contaminating the engine oil. At this point, the car had done 95,508 miles. 
Close Brothers considered this under durability and agreed that Mr O could reject the car.
As part of the rejection Close Brothers collected the car at no cost to Mr O. They also 
refunded his payments from February to June 2021 (the June payment had been taken in 
error after the car had been collected, because the direct debit hadnt been cancelled). Close 
Brothers also refunded the road tax for the time Mr O was without the car; refund Mr Os 
servicing costs; and paid him an additional £150 for the inconvenience hed been caused.
As its not disputed that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr O, 
because the engine wasnt sufficiently durable, my decision will focus on whether the 
remedy paid by Close Brothers was reasonable in the circumstances. Specifically whether 
they should pay statutory interest on the payment refund; whether they should cover Mr Os 
alternative transport costs for the period he was without use of the car; and whether the 
£150 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Mr O had use of the car from 28 November 2020 to 29 March 2021, a period of around four 
months. During which time he did 2,708 miles. So I think its only fair that he pays for this 
usage. Excluding the June 2021 payment taken in error, Close Brothers refunded £533.60 of 
the payments Mr O had made. Mr O didnt have use of the for a short period in February 
2021, and again from 30 March 2021 to 28 April 2021 (when he got a different car). 
Mr O spent £486.71 on alternative transport for the time he was without the car. Most of this 
was for his journeys to and from work, but there were also some costs incurred by his family 
members. But, if Mr O had had use of the car during this period, then I think its reasonable 
to say he wouldve used the car to give his family members a lift, and these additional costs 
wouldnt have been incurred. So I dont think the £486.71 needs to be reduced.
But I do think its fair that Mr O either receives a refund of the payments hes made, or a 
refund of his alternative transport costs, but not both. Otherwise Close Brother are 
essentially paying for journeys that Mr P otherwise wouldve done had the car not broken 
down. And, because the alternative transport costs are lower than the total payments 
refunded, Mr O isnt out of pocket because of this. So I wont be asking Close Brothers to 
make any additional payment towards Mr Os alternative transport costs.
I also appreciate that not having use of the car impacted members of Mr Os family. But, as 
the investigator explained, were only able to consider the impact on Mr O, as he was Close 
Brothers customer. So, while Im not dismissing how Mr Os family members were impacted 
by this situation, I wont be asking Close Brothers to increase the £150 compensation 
theyve already paid.
Putting things right
 When a car is rejected due to being of an unsatisfactory quality, Id expect the financial 
business to take the car back, unwind the agreement, and refund the customer what theyd 
paid (accounting for fair usage). Id also expect them to refund the customer any direct costs 
theyd incurred as a result of the situation. And Close Brothers have done this.
But Id also expect them to pay statutory interest on any refunds. This is because this is 
money the customer couldve used to fund another car (or alternative transport) but wasnt 
able to because it was being used to fund a car of unsatisfactory quality instead. So Id 
expect Close Brothers to pay statutory interest on the payments they refunded Mr O.
Close Brothers have referred to other cases where statutory interest hasnt been added to 
payment refunds. Every case is considered on its own merits, with reference to the facts and 
evidence applicable to it. So, while a different complaint, by a different customer, with 
different facts and circumstances, may have resulted in a different outcome; for the reasons 
stated above, Im satisfied that statutory interest should be paid in this instance.
So, Close Brothers should now arrange to do the following:
remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Os credit file; and
pay Mr O 8% simple yearly interest on the payment refunds, calculated from the date 
Mr O made the payments to the date of the refund .
HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close 
Brothers must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint. Close Brothers Limited must follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman