DRN-3020953
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S have travel insurance through a bank account. The insurer is UKI. Mrs and 
Mr S had to cancel a holiday as during their house sale they had to move out of their house 
at short notice. If they had gone on holiday they wouldnt have been able to clear out the 
house in time for the date they had to move out. They claimed on the travel policy for the 
unrefunded hotel cost. 
UKI declined the claim. It said the circumstances of the cancellation werent covered by the 
policy terms and conditions. However, UKI said it should have told Mr S it was declining the 
claim when he first told it about the claim. Instead it asked him to send documentation then 
declined about seven days later. UKI paid Mrs and Mr S a cheque for £75 compensation for 
their distress and inconvenience caused by unnecessarily being asked to send the 
documentation.
Mrs and Mr S complained to us. They said UKI should have been more sympathetic and 
paid the claim. Mr S said hed been told by a UKI representative that if hed said he was ill it 
could have covered the claim, but he was honest about the reason for cancellation and it 
had refused to pay.
Our investigator said UKI fairly declined the claim and the £75 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience was reasonable.  Mrs and Mr S said UKIs cheque was out of date so our 
investigator arranged for UKI to resend a £75 cheque to them.
Mrs and Mr S disagree with our investigators recommendation and want an ombudsmans 
decision. Mr S said representatives at UKI told him hed been unfairly treated. Mr S also 
said:
he and his wife paid for an upgrade to their travel policy due their age and as they 
hadnt been able to travel they hadnt used the policy so they wanted a policy refund
he thought the policy was insured by the bank, not UKI
while this complaint was with us UKI had written to Mrs S about the travel claim 
which he thought was UKI trying to block our investigation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue of whether UKI should refund the upgrade to the policy premium is a separate 
matter and Mrs and Mr S will need to contact UKI about that separate issue. If the parties 
cant agree about a refund Mrs and Mr S can ultimately make a separate complaint to us to 
consider.
I dont uphold Mrs and Mr S complaint about UKIs decline of their travel insurance claim. Ill 
explain why.
The policy terms under the cancelling your trip section say UKI covers non-refundable 
accommodation costs for trips which have been cancelled due to the following specified 
reasons:
1. Death, illness or injury: the death, serious injury or illness of any insured person, 
your travelling companion, a close relative, a colleague or anyone outside your home 
area that you had planned to stay with.
2. Court cases and quarantine: any insured person, your travelling companion or 
anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with is quarantined, 
called for jury service or as a witness in a court and a court official has refused to 
postpone it.
3. Unemployment: any insured person or your travelling companion is made 
redundant, or have a self-employed contract terminated early by the other party after 
you opened your (named bank account), or booked your trip, whichever is later.
4. Armed forces and emergency services: as a member of the British Armed Forces 
or Emergency Services any insured person or travelling companion has authorised 
leave cancelled due to an unexpected emergency.
5. Fire, storm, flood or burglary: any insured person or your travelling companion has 
to stay at their home or their place of business in the UK as a result of it being 
seriously damaged by fire, storm, flood or burglary in the seven days before 
departure on your trip.
6. Pet emergency: your pet cat or dog needs emergency life-saving treatment in the 
seven days before departure on your trip.
7. Passport or visa: your passport or visa is stolen in the seven days before your 
departure on your trip and you cant arrange a replacement in time.
8.FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All 
travel to your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened 
your (named bank account), or booked your trip whichever is later
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start 
date the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to 
your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your 
(named bank account), or booked your trip whichever is later.
10. Natural disaster: you are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation due to the immediately surrounding area being badly affected by a 
natural disaster.
11. Vehicle accident or breakdown: your vehicle is involved in an accident or breaks 
down in the seven days before your trip and cant be repaired in time.
12. Pregnancy: any insured person or your travelling companion becomes aware that 
they are pregnant and are advised by a doctor not to travel as a direct result, or your 
transport operator confirms they would be travelling outside the conditions of 
carriage. The pregnancy must have been confirmed after you opened your (named bank account), or booked your trip, whichever is later.
13. Vaccinations: any insured person or your travelling companion is advised by a 
doctor not to travel as they cant have the recommended vaccinations for the trip 
destination due to a medical condition. The medical condition must have been 
diagnosed after you opened your (named bank account), or booked your trip, 
whichever is later.
The reason Mrs and Mr S had to cancel their trip isnt an insured reason for cancellation 
under the policy terms and conditions. So the claim isnt covered by the policy.
Ive also considered whether I could reasonably say it would fair for UKI to pay the claim, 
even though theres no policy cover for the claim. But its for an insurer to decide what risks it 
wants to insure under a policy and UKI has clearly set out the insured events for cancellation 
of a trip in the policy documents. I think it should have been clear to Mrs and Mr S that their 
claim wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Mr S says a UKI representative told him if hed said he was ill it could have covered the 
claim. The policy does cover a trip that had to be cancelled due to a policyholders illness. 
There are conditions attached to such claims so UKI wouldnt necessarily have paid a claim 
for cancellation due to illness. And importantly, as Mr S says he needs to have been honest 
in the information he gave UKI about the claim and there was no cover for the cause of the 
holiday cancellation.
Mr S also said some UKI representatives thought hed been treated unfairly. But I dont think 
there are any grounds on which I can reasonably say UKI should pay the claim and Im 
satisfied UKI acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.
I think the £75 compensation UKI paid to Mrs and Mr S for their upset and inconvenience in 
having to unnecessarily send it documentation was a reasonable amount and UKI has 
reissued a cheque for the £75.
Mr S is unhappy as he thought the bank, not UKI, was the policy insurer. Its possible the 
bank may sometimes correspond with Mrs and Mr S about the policy on behalf of UKI but 
UKI is responsible for decisions on claims and the policy is clear the insurer is UKI.
I understand why Mrs and Mr S were confused by UKI contacting Mrs S about the travel 
insurance claim during our investigation. As our investigator explained to Mrs and Mr S, UKI 
sent that correspondence in error. UKI quickly responded to our query about the 
correspondence and I dont think it was trying to put an obstacle in the way of us looking at 
the complaint, as Mr S suggests. Theres no basis for me to say it should pay any additional 
compensation to Mrs and Mr S due to that error.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman