DRN-3888056
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complained that the key terms of their policy werent clearly set out when they 
purchased their home insurance policy using Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) who 
acted as broker for the sale.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ns son purchased a home insurance policy for his parents using a comparison 
website. Tesco who acted as broker were responsible for the sale and administration of the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs N made a claim on their policy when they noticed theyd lost one of their hearing 
aids. They said they first noticed that the hearing aid was missing when they were out in a 
caf. 
Mr and Mrs Ns insurer declined the claim. The insurer said as the hearing aid was lost 
outside the boundaries of your home and garden, Mr and Mrs N needed Personal 
Possessions cover to indemnify them from the loss. As this cover hadnt been purchased, 
Mr and Mrs Ns insurer declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs N think this is unfair. They said the insurance schedule specifically states that 
personnel possessions that are temporarily removed from the premises are covered. They 
said Tescos website specifically confirms if the hearing aid is less that £2,000 in value it 
doesnt need to be specified. They want their claim to be paid. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said the cover Mr and Mrs N 
purchased was correctly explained in their policy documents, so didnt think Tesco has acted 
unreasonably. Mr and Mrs N disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to clarify that this complaint has been set-up against Tesco who are the broker for the 
policy. This is the organisation Mr and Mrs N requested that the complaint be set-up against. 
Tescos responsibilities are limited to the sale and administration of the policy. It wasnt 
Tescos decision to decline the claim  this decision was taken by the insurer. Therefore, I 
wont be able to consider the declination of the claim. However, I have considered whether I 
think the Tesco has acted fairly in the sale and administration of the policy. 
When a policy is sold, our service thinks it reasonable that the broker sets out the key terms 
of a policy. So, I have reviewed whether I think Tesco has done this in selling the policy. I 
think it has, so Im not going to be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs N initially bought their cover, they started by setting their requirements out 
on a comparison website. Tesco has shared the typical questions that are asked at this 
stage of the process. I have reviewed these questions. The questions are clear  I can see 
there is a specific question, which asks Do you want to insure any other possessions when 
away from the home. So, I think this question sets a clear expectation from the broker that 
cover away from the home maybe specific requirement.
When Mr and Mrs N chose to go ahead with the policy, I can see that Tesco shared with Mr 
and Mrs N a range of documents that set out the policy that had been bought. The 
documents included the policy schedule, policy document and a statement of fact. Tesco 
asked Mr and Mrs N to check these documents carefully  there was also a cooling off 
period allowing Mr and Mrs N to cancel the policy within a couple of weeks if it didnt meet 
their needs.
The statement of fact records all the details Mr and Mrs N selected when taking out their 
cover. In essence is sets out their insurance requirements. There are two sections on the 
policy that are potentially relevant  Personal possessions and Specified Items. The 
statement of fact shows Mr and Mrs N selected no for both these requirements. In other 
words, they indicated they didnt need them.
I have checked the policy schedule and the requirements that Mr and Mrs N selected are 
shown correctly. They reflect the answers they provided during their application and match 
what is recorded on the statement of fact. Therefore, as Tesco has asked clear questions 
and have correctly reflected Mr and Mrs Ns stated requirements on the insurance schedule, 
I dont think Tesco has done anything wrong. It has administered the policy reasonably. I 
dont think Tesco has misrepresented any of the policy details when theyve sold the policy. 
Tesco has provided opportunity for all the documents to be properly reviewed.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs N are unhappy their claim has been declined and they think their 
claim is a valid one that should be settled under the policy. However, as I said in my 
introduction, I cant consider this against Tesco the broker as they arent responsible for 
declining the claim. If Mr and Mrs N think the claim shouldve been paid out under the policy, 
then they can make a complaint against their insurer, which is what our investigator has 
explained to them. However, as I dont think Tesco has mis-sold this policy, so Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman