DRN-3653100
The complaint
Miss M has complained that J D Williams & Company Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss M opened a shopping account with J D Williams in March 2021. Her account limit was 
initially very low - £150. Over the course of the next nine months Miss Ms account limit was 
increased four times until, in January 2022, it was £1,200.
Miss M says that J D Williams didnt carry out the correct checks before lending to her and 
that the credit was unaffordable for her.
 
J D Williams says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Miss M  and when it 
increased her credit limit. 
Our adjudicator thought that Miss Ms complaint should be partially upheld. They thought 
that the initial credit given to Miss M was acceptable, but that by the time her credit was 
increased for the fourth time, J D Williams didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so.
 
Our adjudicator said that J D Williams should pay back interest and charges it made as a 
result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Miss M. 
J D Williams agreed with our adjudicators view and agreed to settle Miss Ms complaint in 
the way the adjudicator suggested. Miss M didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. 
She said she contacted J D Williams on multiple occasions, but it didnt help. She also said 
that she didnt think our adjudicator had taken into account her outgoings correctly. Miss M 
thought that her complaint should be upheld from no later than the second credit limit 
increase. 
Our adjudicator explained that she had taken into account Miss M's outgoings and that she 
did not have any evidence that Miss M had contacted J D Williams on the occasions Miss M 
said she had.
As Miss M still didnt agree so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ms complaint.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
When Miss M opened her account in March 2021, J D Williams carried out a credit check. 
There was no negative data in the preceding 12 months although it did show that Miss M 
had defaulted on three previous revolving credit accounts. The most recent of those was a 
year prior. 
As the credit limit was so low at £150 I dont think even with the evidence of previous 
defaults that J D Williams were unreasonable to offer the account. Im satisfied that the 
balance could be expected to be repaid in a sustainable way. Similarly, when the credit limit 
was increased a month later to £250 I think the information J D Williams had was sufficient 
to indicate that the lending would be affordable. I have taken into account that Miss M had 
made her first repayment on time and in accordance with the minimum requirement.
Miss Ms credit limit was increased again about five months later. It was a significant 
increase of 120% which was based again on her account management record and credit 
score. Her credit score had increased slightly, and her overall indebtedness had decreased, 
although there was a single missed or late payment on her record. Given what J D Williams 
knew about Miss Ms previous credit record I am not satisfied that J D Williams should have 
relied solely on the credit search to decide whether the increase was proportionate. I think it 
should have asked Miss M about her financial circumstances  specifically by asking for 
evidence of her income and expenditure.
 
Miss M provided copies of her bank statements for the three months preceding the increase. 
They showed that Miss Ms committed essential expenditure, including credit repayments 
elsewhere, amounted to around £830 a month and her income was around £1,100 a month. 
She also received a regular payment each month from her partner of £1,000 a month. In 
light of these figures I dont think that a credit limit of £550 would have been unaffordable for 
Miss M. Similarly, when the credit limit was increased less than a month later to £850 it is 
likely J D Williams would have seen similar, if not the same, information if it did more checks 
and I think it would have been reasonable for it to conclude that the increase was affordable.
 
However, by the time of the fourth and final credit limit increase, which was four months after 
Miss Ms previous increase, I think it was clear that Miss M was beginning to struggle to 
meet her credit commitments. Miss M had missed a payment on her J D Williams account 
and had she was three months late with a payment on another account. Her overall 
indebtedness had also increased. Based on this information I dont think J D Williams made 
a fair or reasonable decision to increase Miss Ms credit limit. And I think Miss M lost out as 
a result of that decision.
Ive also considered whether J D Williams acted unfairly in the way it supported Miss M. Miss 
M says she contacted J D Williams on a number of occasions but it didnt help her. J D 
Williams says it doesnt have a record of those contacts. Miss M says that the contacts were 
over the live chat function, but she hasnt been able to supply any evidence of these. So, on 
balance, I cant fairly say that J D Williams didnt act fairly when Miss M sought forbearance. Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for J D Williams to refund any interest and charges incurred by 
Miss M as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. I dont think the limit should have 
been increased in January 2022 therefore J D Williams should rework the account and:
remove any interest and charges incurred after 20 January 2022 as a result of any 
increases (including any buy now pay later interest). That is, J D Williams can only 
add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit of £850 - being the credit 
limit before 20 January 2022.
J D Williams should work out how much Miss M would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Miss M made since 20 January 2022 should be used to 
reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Miss M 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Miss M no longer owes any money, then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from her credit file 
from today.
If Miss M still has an outstanding balance J D Williams should treat Miss M fairly if 
shes having difficulties meeting the repayments. If Miss M considers that she is not 
being treated fairly she must complain to J D Williams. If that does not resolve 
matters Miss M can refer that complaint to this service. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss M a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think J D Williams acted unfairly when it extended further credit to Miss M on 20 January 
2022. To put this right, I direct J D Williams & Company Limited to pay compensation as 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman