DRN-3150940
The complaint
Mr D complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited failed to carry out sufficient due 
diligence activities when he asked to transfer some pension savings to an occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) in early 2013.
What happened
Mr D has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But for ease, in this decision, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr D himself.
Mr D held pension savings with Standard Life. He says that he was cold called by a firm 
offering him a free review of his pension arrangements. Following that review he was told 
that if he were to transfer his pension savings to the Capita Oak Pension Scheme he would 
receive an immediate tax-free sum of £3,000, and likely investment returns that would 
double or triple his pension savings over a short period of time. Mr D was attracted by that 
advice and agreed to the transfer being started.
On 18 February 2013 Standard Life received a request for information about Mr Ds pension 
savings. Then, on 2 April 2013, Standard Life received a formal request for the transfer of 
Mr Ds pension savings. The transfer was completed, and the pension savings sent to the 
new scheme two days later, on 4 April.
In January 2017 The Pensions Regulator (TPR) appointed a new independent trustee to the 
OPS. Mr D says that the failure of his investments in the scheme will result in him suffering a 
significant loss and that he has already needed to pay additional tax in relation to the initial 
transfer fee he received. He says that Standard Life should have taken steps to contact 
him at the time of the transfer and make him aware of the possible dangers he was facing.
One of our investigators has assessed Mr Ds complaint. She noted that Standard Life had 
failed to send Mr D a warning leaflet that had been produced by TPR. Although that leaflet 
had only become available in mid-February she thought that sufficient time had elapsed for 
Standard Life to have updated its processes and sent the leaflet to Mr D. And she thought 
that if Mr D had received the leaflet its warnings would have been sufficient to make him 
aware that the transfer might not be in his best interests. So she thought that Mr Ds 
complaint should be upheld and asked Standard Life to put things right.
Standard Life didnt agree with that assessment. It highlighted other complaints that had 
been dealt with both by this Service and by the Pensions Ombudsman where a longer 
implementation period had been thought reasonable. Standard Life said it had no reason to 
consider that Mr Ds request should cause any concerns. And it wasnt persuaded that, even 
if he had received the scorpion leaflet, Mr D would have cancelled his transfer request. It 
thought his comments to that effect had been made, understandably given the position he is 
now in, with the benefit of hindsight.
Mr D also raised some concerns about how our investigator had proposed Standard Life put 
things right. He said that he had needed to engage specialist advice to help identify the 
problems, that he now needed to pay for. Reinstating his pension would not provide him with 
the means to meet those costs. He believed that his relationship with Standard Life had 
been terminated when he agreed to the transfer, and that he might find it preferable to make 
alternative pension arrangements rather than to be put back into the previous scheme. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr D accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TPRs scorpion guidance
The scorpion guidance was issued on 14 February 2013. Several bodies including the FSA 
(the Financial Services Authority which had been succeeded by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, the FCA, by the time of Mr Ds transfer) were part of this initiative so its a relevant 
consideration for personal pension providers like Standard Life which come under FSA/FCA 
regulation, rather than TPR regulation.
Briefly, the scorpion campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs 
present in a number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being 
transferred overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and 
pressure to complete a transfer quickly. It suggested transferring schemes should look out 
for these issues, as well as receiving occupational schemes that were newly registered or 
were suddenly involved in multiple transfer requests.
If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist schemes could use 
which suggested asking the member for copies of promotional materials, emails or letters 
about the scheme and for further details about how they became aware of the receiving 
scheme and how it had been described to them. If those enquiries established the member 
had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether the adviser had been registered 
with the FCA. Where transferring schemes had concerns, they were encouraged to consider 
delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The scorpion campaign also included:
An insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was requested. The insert warns 
about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, cold calling, being put under 
pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences of accessing pensions early.
A longer leaflet which gives more information, including real life examples, about 
pension liberation. This was to be used in order to help raise awareness about 
pension liberation amongst pension scheme members.
Standard Life says at the time it was requested to make the transfer on behalf of Mr D, on 
2 April 2013, it was reviewing its procedures in response to the scorpion guidance. 
I understand this means it did, ultimately, adopt the guidance. If so, I agree taking some time 
to do this is reasonable. But here Standard Life was still reviewing its processes some six 
weeks after the guidance was introduced. I consider this to be too long. Standard Life was, 
after all, well aware of the scorpion campaign and the seriousness of the issues it was trying to address. So allowing six weeks to have elapsed without there being any demonstrable 
change to its processes doesnt strike me as being reasonable. 
I have considered that the initial transfer information was requested just days after the 
launch of the scorpion campaign. I agree with Standard Life that it would be unreasonable 
for it to have sent the scorpion leaflet to Mr D at the time of the initial information request. 
But, at the very least, I would have expected it to have been in a position to send out the 
scorpion insert when it received Mr Ds formal transfer request at the start of April. This 
would have been an effective stop-gap that wouldnt have required a significant amount of 
upheaval to implement.
Standard Life points to decisions by the Pensions Ombudsman to support its case. In 
particular, it points to the following sentence from a decision issued in 2015:
It would be reasonable to expect some time would be required for procedures to be updated 
and new literature prepared to reflect the guidance. Standard Life says that, as the transfer 
referenced in the decision was processed in April 2013, it is unlikely that the Pensions 
Ombudsman would find Standard Life to have been negligent in its due diligence process.
Im not bound by the decisions of the Pensions Ombudsman. But it should also be noted that 
the thinking of the Pensions Ombudsman has since evolved. In a decision dated 
11 March 2021 (nearly six years after the decision Standard Life has referred us to), it says:
I am not bound by previous Determinations I have made, and each case is assessed on its 
individual facts. I have taken the opportunity to review the facts, further evaluate the evolving 
regulatory position and the cases I have previously Determined. Having done so, I consider 
that a period of approximately one month would generally be sufficient for a provider to put in 
place any procedures necessary as a result of the Regulators new guidance. This view is 
supported by previous Determinations I have issued, such as PO-6375, along with others. 
Should this timeframe not be met by any provider, I would expect it to consider temporarily 
suspending transfers while it makes the necessary arrangements or contacting The 
Regulator to request an extension on the stipulated transfer deadlines [PO-24554]
As I say, Im not bound by decisions made by the Pensions Ombudsman. But its current 
position doesnt appear in conflict with my view on this case, which is that Im not persuaded 
it was reasonable for six weeks to have passed without Standard Life making any changes 
in response to the scorpion guidance, or at the very least delaying Mr Ds request.
Standard Life might consider that sending the scorpion insert wasnt mandatory. When 
launching the campaign, TPR said the following:
We would also like to see the use of the pension liberation fraud insert in transfer packs 
for members become best practice. [my emphasis]
I also need to decide what is fair and reasonable taking into account, where appropriate, 
what good industry practice was at the time (DISP 3.6.4R). And its clear to me that the 
scorpion campaign was intended to represent good industry practice. Sending the insert was 
an integral part of this. So even though it wasnt mandatory, Im satisfied sending the insert 
can be considered as being good industry practice and its appropriate for me to consider 
Standard Lifes actions in that light.What should Standard Life have done and would it have made a difference?
For the reasons Ive given above, I think that Standard Life should have sent the scorpion 
insert to Mr D at the start of April when his transfer was requested  and I think it would have 
been reasonable to allow him a short time to consider his options in the light of that 
information. Standard Life actually completed the transfer just two days after it was 
submitted. I think its failures caused detriment to Mr D.
The scorpion insert was headed Predators stalk your pension. It went on to say that 
companies are singling out savers like you and claiming that they can help you cash in your 
pension early. It warned people to watch out for:
being approached out of the blue over the phone or via text message;
pushy advisers or introducers offering upfront cash incentives;
companies offering loans, savings advances or cash back from a pension;
a lack of information about the potential tax consequences of taking action.
It went on to say individuals should:
not give out financial or personal information to a cold caller;
find out about a companys background through information online and note that any 
financial advisers should be registered with the FCA;
ask for a statement showing how a pension will be paid at retirement, and question 
who will look after funds until then;
speak to an adviser that is not associated with the proposal in question in order to get 
an unbiased opinion;
never be rushed into agreeing to a pension transfer.
Ive listened carefully to a phone call between our investigator and Mr D. I am persuaded 
that during the call Mr D gave a candid and honest recollection of his thinking at the time of 
the transfer. And he also explained how he thought the scorpion insert might have affected 
his judgement at that time.
Mr D says that he had some concerns about the proposals to transfer his pension to the new 
OPS. In particular he says that he had questioned whether he would be allowed to receive a 
cash payment as an incentive to transfer. But ultimately he was persuaded that the transfer 
would be in his best interests. And he says that any concerns he had were largely allayed by 
the speed at which Standard Life completed the transfer  he says that suggested to him 
that this transaction was routine and unlikely to cause any problems.
I think Mr Ds testimony is particularly important here. He was already uncomfortable with 
what had been proposed, and had asked the advisor to confirm that what was being 
suggested was legitimate. But Mr D wasnt by any means a pensions expert  and he would 
likely be persuaded by those he thought had greater knowledge that him. But I think the 
stark warnings in the scorpion leaflet from the industry regulators  specifically about things 
he was already concerned about  were likely to have meant he would have stopped any 
transfer activity. And I think that would have been even more likely had Standard Life provided him with time to reflect on his decision rather than implementing his request 
immediately. 
It follows that I think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. I think sufficient time had elapsed 
for Standard Life to update, or at the very least temporarily modify, its procedures to ensure 
that consumers were provided with the scorpion leaflet, and time to consider it, before a 
transfer was completed. And I think that if Standard Life had sent Mr D the leaflet he would 
most likely have changed his mind about the transfer.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if Standard Life had treated him fairly. I have considered what Mr D has said about 
the difficulties reinstatement might cause to him. And at this stage I dont know whether that 
is something Standard Life will be able to do. However I think reinstatement of his benefits 
with Standard Life does place him closest to the position he would have been had the 
transfer not taken place, so that is what I will direct should be done in the first instance.
The Capita Oak Scheme only seems to have been used in order for Mr D to make an 
investment that I dont think he would have made but for Standard Lifes actions. So I think 
that Mr D would have remained in his pension plan with Standard Life and wouldnt have 
transferred to the Capita Oak Scheme.
I understand that a value for the Capita Oak Scheme is unlikely to be available as the 
position of the investments made by the former trustees is uncertain. To compensate Mr D 
fairly, Standard Life should determine the notional value of the policy Mr D formerly held with 
it, assuming it had continued running up to the date of my final decision.
Any pension commencement lump sum or gross income payments Mr D received directly 
from the Capita Oak Scheme which would have been permitted under the tax rules (and are 
therefore not being treated as incentives below) should be treated as notional withdrawals 
from Standard Life on the date(s) they were paid, so that they cease to take part in the 
calculation of notional value from those point(s) onwards. 
Incentives
A downward adjustment may be made to the notional value to allow for any indirect cash 
benefits (including loans) Mr D was paid as a result of the transfer and/or any payments the 
Capita Oak Scheme made to him before the age of 55 that it should not have been allowed 
to make (together, the incentives). Mr D is expected to evidence to Standard Life the total 
amount of incentives as soon as possible, otherwise he will not be able to benefit from 
any reimbursement or indemnity regarding unauthorised payment charges caused 
specifically by these incentives (covered below).
This adjustment involves calculating what larger, gross amount would ordinarily need to 
have been withdrawn from the pension over the course of Mr Ds retirement, to leave him a 
net amount equal to the total incentives. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so a 75% portion of his pension 
would be taxed at 20% assuming he is entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. 
As a result his net benefits would equal 85% of the gross benefits. So the total incentives 
(if any) should therefore be grossed-up by dividing them by 0.85, then they should be 
deducted from the notional value at the date of my final decision.Payment of compensation
There doesnt appear to be any reason why Mr D needed a pension arrangement that wasnt 
a privately held and FCA-regulated pension arrangement. Mr D lost the benefit of regulatory 
protection in transferring to the Capita Oak Scheme. So I dont think its appropriate for 
further compensation to be paid into that scheme.
Standard Life should reinstate Mr Ds pension plan as if it had the notional value as 
determined on the date of my final decision (and it performs thereafter in line with the funds 
Mr D was invested in). 
Standard Life shouldnt reinstate Mr Ds plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance  but my understanding is that it will be possible for it to reinstate a pension it 
formerly administered in order to rectify an administrative error that led to the transfer taking 
place. If Standard Life doesnt consider this is possible, it must explain why. 
If Standard Life is unable to reinstate Mr Ds pension and it is open to new business, it 
should set up a new plan equal to the notional value. The new plan should have features, 
costs and investment choices that are as close as possible to Mr Ds original pension. Its 
payment into the new plan should allow for the effect of charges and tax relief (if applicable). 
Standard Life shouldnt set up a new plan if considers that its payment will be treated as a 
member contribution, and that contribution exceeds Mr Ds annual allowance but 
Standard Life is unable to process the excess amount.
If its not possible to set up a new plan either, Standard Life should pay the compensation 
amount direct to Mr D. But if this money had been in a pension, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore compensation paid in this way should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
To make this reduction, its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so a 75% portion of his pension would be taxed at 
20% assuming he is entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. This results in an 
overall reduction of 15%, which should be applied to the compensation amount if its paid 
direct to Mr D.
Reimbursement, indemnity, and undertakings
In addition, Standard Life should reimburse Mr D for any unauthorised payment tax charges 
that have been levied against him personally by HMRC. And it should also indemnify Mr D 
against any such charges arising in future as a result of unauthorised payments deemed to 
have been made before the date of my final decision.
The reimbursement or indemnity does not apply in respect of any incentives which Mr D 
does not promptly disclose to Standard Life at the date of my final decision.
Standard Life may also ask Mr D to provide an undertaking to do either of the following, 
when the value of his entitlement under the Capita Oak Scheme has been finalised:
Make a full transfer of his entitlement back out of the Capita Oak Scheme to 
Standard Lifes pension plan. Standard Life may then recover that value from its 
pension plan so that Mr D isnt overcompensated. Or, if this isnt possible:
Withdraw the proceeds of his entitlement from the Capita Oak Scheme as tax-free 
cash and income payments over a period of time agreed between Standard Life and 
Mr D, so that the net amount Mr D receives can be returned to Standard Life and he is not overcompensated.
Standard Life will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Standard Life 
asks Mr D to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be 
dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Standard Life receiving Mr Ds 
acceptance of my final decision, interest should be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. HMRC 
requires Standard Life to take off tax from this interest. Standard Life must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
This interest is not required if Standard Life is reinstating Mr Ds plan  as the reinstated sum 
should, by definition, mirror the performance after the date of my final decision of the funds 
in which Mr D was invested.
Standard Life should also pay Mr D £300 for disruption this matter has caused to his 
retirement planning, and the undoubted worry and stress it will have caused to him.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Standard Life Assurance 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman