DRN-3332918
The complaint
Mr K complains about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr K has a home insurance policy underwritten by UKI which covers buildings, contents and 
home emergencies, amongst other things.
In January 2021, Mr Ks hot water stopped working, so he called UKI, who arranged for an 
engineer to attend.
The engineer noted issues with the programmer for Mr Ks boiler and with a diverter valve 
which controls the flow of hot water to the heating system (which was still working) and the 
taps / showers etc (which were not producing hot water) at Mr Ks home. Mr K says he was 
told some parts would need to be replaced and that UKI would be in touch.
The engineer also said the water in the system contained sludge and sent a photo of a 
sample to UKI. 
Mr K says he had to chase UKI five days later, only to be told that they werent going to 
cover any repairs because damage caused by sludge in the system was excluded from the 
policy.
Mr K wasnt happy with this and made a complaint. He said his system had been installed 
only four years before and had been treated to prevent sludge. 
UKI offered Mr K £100 compensation for the delays and errors in handling the claim. And 
they told Mr K that if he got his own engineer to fix the system and it became evident that the 
problem hadnt been sludge, then theyd re-consider his claim.
Mr K says he had an approved engineer (from the maker of the boiler system) attend. He 
diagnosed the problem as being with the valve, but made no mention at all of any sludge in 
the system
At around the same time, UKI issued their final response to Mr Ks complaint and referred 
him to our service if he wasnt happy with the outcome. 
Mr K brought his complaint to us in early May 2021. Our investigator looked into it and didnt 
think UKI had done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about the terms of the policy. They say very clear that UKI will not 
pay for repairs to damage caused by sludge. 
Thats not an unusual exclusion in this kind of policy. Its not hidden in the small print. And 
its not inherently unfair  as long as it was clear to the customer at the time of purchase.
The key question is whether the problems Mr K had with his hot water were in fact caused 
by sludge  or not.
I have to consider whether UKIs decision to decline the claim, in January 2021, was fair and 
reasonable given the information available at the time. 
Its not for our service to act as a substitute claims handler for an on-going claim. Nor could 
we reasonably uphold a complaint against UKI if subsequent evidence  which they may not 
have seen  calls their claim decision into doubt.
At various times during our handling of his complaint, Mr K has produced evidence which he 
says shows that the problem with his system was never sludge.
He says the manufacturers engineer who visited soon after UKIs engineer didnt mention 
sludge. That is true. In fact, he completed a work form to show his analysis, which clearly 
shows that he didnt test the water turbidity at all. 
So, he didnt say sludge had caused the problem, but nor did he say it hadnt. He didnt say 
there was sludge in the system, but nor did he say there wasnt. So, that report adds little to 
the debate, in my view.
Mr K then told us hed had another visit from the manufacturers engineer, in September 
2021  to address a leak. The water turbidity was tested on that occasion and the engineers 
report says the water passed the test  in other words, there wasnt enough sludge in the 
system to cause a problem.
Mr K says he had the issues fixed  around the same time  by his own engineer. He says 
that engineer did not address any sludge issue when he carried out repairs and nor did he 
indicate that the problem had been caused by sludge in the system.
Mr K also told us  after our investigator had offered her view on the case  that he has a 
magnetic filter sludge remover installed on his system. This system has sludge indicator 
tubes  which again do not show any sludge in the system.
When UKI declined Mr Ks claim  and in response to his complaint to them - they said that if 
it later turned out that the problem wasnt caused by sludge, they would look at any further 
information or evidence Mr K could provide and would re-consider their position
Im not going to comment on the evidence and information Mr K has provided to us after the 
engineer visits in September 2021. Its not for me to say whether that evidence shows or 
proves that the issue was never about sludge.
What I can say is that Mr K hasnt provided that evidence to UKI and asked them to re-
consider his claim  as they undertook to do in January 2021. 
I understand Mr K will be disappointed with this, but Im satisfied UKI have done nothing 
wrong in the way theyve handled his claim.
On the basis of the information they had at the time  their own engineers report  it wasnt unreasonable to apply the exclusion in the policy and decline Mr Ks claim in January 2021.
It wasnt unreasonable at that time to recognise that they ought to have handled the claim 
better and offer an appropriate level of compensation to Mr K.
And it certainly wasnt in any way unfair or unreasonable to invite Mr K to come back to them 
if there was any further evidence from his own engineers to suggest that the problem was 
not caused by sludge.
So, Id suggest Mr K now provides UKI will any and all evidence or information which 
supports his assertion that the problem wasnt caused by sludge. 
And Id expect UKI to then re-consider Mr Ks claim, in light of the evidence hes provided. Id 
also expect that if that evidence shows that their engineer ought to have picked up in 
January 2021 that the problem wasnt caused by sludge, theyd look again at the 
compensation offered to Mr K for delays and errors in the claim handling.
I should say again that the key issue here is what caused the issues with Mr Ks system. He 
has now had repairs carried out. The engineer that carried out that work will have provided 
an invoice to set out the work done and/or explain what the issue with the system was. 
That is the key evidence / information here. Weve asked Mr K for that on a number of 
occasions and he hasnt provided it to us. I imagine UKI will want to see that as part of their 
re-consideration of Mr Ks claim.
I would also imagine that UKI will want to know exactly when Mr K had the magnetic filter 
fitted to his system. If that - and its sludge indicating tubes - were in place before January 
2021, its difficult to see why theres been any debate here, or why the various engineers 
didnt refer to it in their reports  or indeed why Mr K mentioned it only at the end of our 
investigation.
If it was fitted at some time between January 2021 and now, then  bearing in mind that it 
appears to be a sludge removing filter (in Mr Ks own words)  the time at which it was 
installed will be very significant. 
The fact that theres sludge-free water after the filter has been installed  might not then 
provide any real clue as to whether the water was sludge-free in January 2021, or whether 
sludge caused the problems with Mr Ks system.
I mention this simply to try to provide some indication for Mr K about what evidence UKI 
might need as and when they re-consider his claim. As I say above, its not for our service to 
act as the claims handler in this case or to weigh the evidence Mr K can provide for UKI. 
But I think its fair to say that, as a minimum, theyll be interested in the report from the 
engineer who fixed the system, documents showing the installation date of the magnetic 
filter and any technical guidance or manual to show what functions that filter performs.
If Mr K is unhappy with the outcome after UKI look at any new evidence he can provide, he 
would be entitled to make another complaint to them. And he can then complain again to us 
if hes still not satisfied.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman