DRN-4069148
The complaint
Miss B, who is represented by a CMC, complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough 
to protect her from an investment scam.
What happened
Miss B has a current account and a savings account with Barclays.
Miss B says that she saved a lot of money because she couldnt travel during the pandemic 
 she used to travel extensively, and that she decided to invest that money in 
cryptocurrency. She says she spoke to a third party who told her that shed need to set up a 
cryptocurrency wallet to invest, and that shed make a significant return. Miss B says the 
third party  who helped her set up the wallet  turned out to be a scammer.
Between 19 January 2021 and 9 March 2021 Miss B sent approximately £11,500 to the 
wallet shed set up with the help of the third party. She then called Barclays to talk about the 
mechanics of investing a further £26,000  including money from a member of her family. 
Barclays says that it warned Miss B that the investment might be a scam during that call. 
Miss B says Barclays warning wasnt strong enough and that she went ahead with her 
further investment. Shortly after doing so, Miss B says she realised shed been scammed.
Miss B contacted Barclays on 30 March 2021 to say that shed lost £26,000 in an investment 
scam because Barclays hadnt warned her properly. Barclays investigated and said that the 
£26,000 had been transferred to a wallet in her name, so she hadnt incurred a loss until 
shed transferred the funds out of the wallet. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Miss B complained to Barclays again in October 2022  this time represented by a CMC  
saying that Barclays hadnt done enough to protect her from falling victim to an investment 
scam and that shed lost £37,565.00 as a result. Barclays investigated Miss Bs complaint 
and said that it had warned her she might being scammed. More importantly, it said that all it 
had done was help her transfer money into a cryptocurrency wallet in her name, and she 
hadnt made a loss until she subsequently transferred the money out of that wallet. Barclays 
said Miss B should, in the circumstances, complain to the wallet provider. Miss B was 
unhappy with Barclays response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Bs complaint and said that they didnt think it 
would have made a difference if Barclays had given a better warning than the one it had 
given as Miss B hadnt taken Barclays advice on board in any event. Our investigator said 
that Miss B had gone ahead and sent an additional £26,000 to the scammer without 
attempting to withdraw the profit she said shed made so far  as Barclays had 
recommended  to see if she was dealing with a legitimate company. Miss B had also 
ignored her financial advisor who had warned her that theyd seen lots of people fall victim to 
cryptocurrency investment scam. So, they didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B was unhappy with our investigators recommendation, saying that Barclays should 
have known this was a scam  particularly given that the FCA had warned about the 
scammer in December 2020, something Barclays failed to spot  and should have given a 
much stronger warning and / or invoked the banking protocol. Miss B also said that shed 
contacted the scammer after speaking to Barclays and had been able to withdraw the profit 
shed made to date and that this had given her confidence that she wasnt dealing with a 
scammer. Our investigator asked for evidence that Miss B had made a successful 
withdrawal, saying that without this additional evidence it wouldnt be fair to uphold her 
complaint. Miss B couldnt obtain the additional evidence our investigator had requested  
despite attempting to contact the wallet provider on several occasions  and asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, it was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B called Barclays on 9 March 2021, and, during that call, there was a discussion about 
whether the payments shed been making and wanted to make were legitimate or a scam. 
Ive listened to a copy of that call. Before saying what I think of that call, I think its worth 
mentioning that this wasnt the first time that Miss C had spoken to Barclays about the 
cryptocurrency she believed she was investing in. I can see, for example, that she was 
transferred to Barclays fraud department on 12 February 2021 as its systems had identified 
the fact that she was trying to buy cryptocurrency and that she was told to visit a branch. I 
can also see that she visited a branch the following day and explained that she was using 
the money shed not spent the year before going on holiday to invest in cryptocurrency, that 
she was aware of the risks involved and that shed set herself an upper limit on what she 
was willing to invest. The records Ive seen dont say what was discussed in detail, and 
whether scams were mentioned. But I would have expected that scams were discussed 
given that there was considerable awareness of scams involving cryptocurrency by then. 
More importantly, I agree with our investigator that the key issue in this complaint is whether 
Barclays could and should have done more during the call on 9 March 2021.
Miss B called Barclays on 9 March 2021 because she wanted to invest another £26,000 
cryptocurrency and wanted to talk about the mechanics of doing so. For example, what her 
daily transfer limits were, whether shed be able to use money a member of her family had 
transferred into her account and the best way to make the payment. Miss B wasnt calling 
Barclays because it had blocked a payment shed tried to make. It was a general query. The 
agent Miss B spoke to was friendly and at times the conversation moved onto general chat 
but given that Miss B was speaking to the banking relationship team I dont think this was out 
of place or unprofessional. More importantly, as Miss B explained in more detail what shed 
been doing, including how much profit shed been told shed made, how much profit shed 
been told to expect and whether shed been able to withdraw any of that profit, I can see that 
the agent to whom she was speaking began to ask questions and to make sure Miss B 
wasnt falling victim to a scam. At one stage in the call, for example, when Miss B said shed 
managed to withdraw some of the profit shed made, the agent questioned her further and 
checked her statements and pointed out that shed had an overpayment to the wallet 
provider returned, not profit. Miss B says good point several times during the call and that 
its good that the agent is making her think. By the end of the call Miss B sounds less 
confident that shes making payments to a genuine investment, says her financial advisor 
had warned her that hed seen lots of people lose money to cryptocurrency scams who had 
similar experiences to Miss B and that shell speak to the third party shes dealing with and 
make sure shes able to successfully withdraw the profit shed made to date before investing 
further. 
Miss Bs representative said, after wed asked, that she had, in fact, managed to withdraw 
the profit shed made. If true, that means she would have managed to withdraw 
approximately £6,000. That would be a significant amount to get back from a scammer and our investigator asked Miss Bs representative for evidence that shed managed to do so, not 
least because theyd not mentioned the fact that shed managed to make a withdrawal after 
the call in their earlier submissions.
Miss B has tried to contact the wallet provider several times for evidence that shed 
managed to withdraw the profit shed been told shed made, without success. Unfortunately, 
given that we have to decide complaints based on the evidence were sent, I agree with our 
investigator that without evidence of that withdrawal it wouldnt be fair to say Barclays should 
be liable. Thats because I agree, based on the evidence that we have, that it wouldnt have 
made a difference if Barclays had given a better warning than the one it gave, as Miss B 
didnt take Barclays advice on board or that of her financial advisor. In other words, I agree 
that she would have gone ahead in any event. I agree too that Barclays fraud department  
who the agent spoke to whilst Miss B was on hold  could have done a better job as the FCA 
had issued a warning I relation to the third-party Miss B was dealing with in December 2020. 
The person who the agent spoke to in the fraud department said theyd never heard of the 
third party  although they did agree based on the negative reviews that the agent had found 
that there was a good chance Miss B had been scammed. I note that Miss B had seen the 
negative reviews too, and went ahead nevertheless. In short, for the reasons Ive given, I 
agree that this is a complained that I ought not to uphold.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman