DRN-2861891
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the way hes been treated by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). 
He says he wanted a new interest rate and a payment break from his mortgage payments 
due to personal reasons. He was told by an adviser that he was able to get a payment break 
but was later told he couldnt have one.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr A spoke to an adviser who confirmed to him that he had a flexi 
mortgage and as part of that mortgage, he could have a six-month payment break. He said 
the adviser also said they could discuss a new interest rate for his mortgage. Mr A explained 
he wanted a payment break as it would help him with the unexpected cost of two-family 
funerals.
Mr A said following his conversation with the adviser, he made several attempts to contact 
her to discuss the interest rate and payment break, but he was unable to reach her.  He said 
he spoke to a number of different people and had also spoken to Debt Management 
Operations (DMO) at RBS and he was advised by a team manager that there would be no 
reason why he couldnt have a payment break as it would help him out financially. Mr A said 
that this still hadnt been arranged and he spoke to various people after that, who told him 
that it wasnt possible to have a payment break and because of this, the arrears on his 
mortgage increased from £6,000 to around £27,000. He said he was left very frustrated as 
he didnt know what was going on.
Mr A said there was mis-communication about the payment break and he thought his 
mortgage was on hold, so he stopped making his mortgage payments altogether. He 
believes that RBS are responsible for the arrears accruing on his mortgage account and he 
would like the additional debt to either be waived or capitalised (added to the mortgage) on 
the account.
RBS have admitted that there was mis-communication about whether Mr A was able to get a 
payment break and they awarded Mr A redress to compensate him for this. They awarded 
him £10.80 for telephone call costs and £150 at first for the inconvenience they caused him. 
They then awarded Mr A £750 for the continued distress and inconvenience they caused 
him by their lack of communication  awarding a total of £910.80.
In March 2020, the UK entered a nationwide lockdown due to the pandemic. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in late March in relation to borrowers 
who were unable to meet their mortgage payments due to the lockdown. This guidance 
meant that no payments would need to be made towards a customers mortgage for, initially 
three months, before this was extended to a six-month period. The interest due during this 
period would still need to be repaid, and this is something which would typically be added to 
the mortgage and repaid over the remaining term. This is why it was referred to by the FCA 
as a payment deferral rather than a payment holiday. 
Mr A said he also had discussions with RBS about them agreeing a payment deferral for him 
but he said they wouldnt approve this. RBS said they couldnt put Mr A on a Covid payment 
deferral due to the level of arrears on his mortgage account  and that Mr A was in arrears 
before the Covid pandemic. They said that Mr A was already in arrears and his current 
situation was not impacted by Covid.  
In their final response letter, RBS acknowledged that Mr A was trying to speak to the adviser 
he originally spoke to several times. They explained that his main mortgage was on a flexi 
rate, but he couldnt have a payment break because his mortgage wasnt up to date. The 
second part of the mortgage was on a standard variable rate (SVR). RBS said they checked 
with the DMO and there were no notes confirming the payment break had been agreed.
Mr A wasnt happy with this, so he brought the complaint to our service where it was looked 
at by one of our investigators. Our investigator agreed that there had been mis-
communication and felt the compensation that had been paid to Mr A was enough to put 
things right. But she didnt think they treated him unfairly with regards to not being able to 
place his mortgage on a payment break or capitalising the arrears.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator and asked for certain calls to be listened to. Our 
investigator let Mr A know that she did listen to several calls that RBS had sent her 
previously and some additional ones they had sent. But RBS were unable to provide some 
of the calls that Mr A wanted her to listen to. Our investigator explained that this still didnt 
change her opinion on the matter. 
As Mr A remained unhappy and said he should still get the six-month payment break 
because this is what he was told. He asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there is no dispute here that there was mis-communication between Mr A and RBS. 
From reviewing the contact notes and listening to the telephone calls that we do have, there 
was a lot of back and forth as Mr A was trying to speak to the mortgage adviser about his 
mortgage. 
Ill need to consider whether the compensation amount already offered by RBS is enough to 
put things right and also think about the arrears on the mortgage  and whether anything 
needs to be arranged with regards to these. There are also two separate issues here that 
need addressing. One is about the payment break that Mr A said he wanted before the UK 
entered lockdown, and a payment deferral due to Covid which the FCA published specific 
guidance on at the time of the lockdown.
Payment break  prior to UK lockdown
Ive firstly looked at the contact notes supplied by RBS and considered what Mr A has said.
Mr A has said that he spoke to an adviser early in September 2019 who told him his 
mortgage was a flexi one, and that he could have a six-month payment break. He was then 
later told by a team manager that this wouldnt be an issue.
Mr A said he then called back and was put through to DMO who confirmed there was no 
knowledge of a payment break and Mr A said he wanted this so that he could try and sort 
out the arrears on his mortgage account.
Mr A said he continued to try and speak to the adviser he spoke to, but he was told she 
wasnt at work due to sickness absence.
From reviewing the contact notes, as I already said, there does appear to be a lot of back 
and forth with regards to this. There is also a lot of conflicting information around whether  
Mr A could have a payment break and the notes do show that there were enquiries made 
within RBS to find out what was going on. But RBS stance is that it wasnt possible to arrange this because the mortgage account was in arrears. The notes show that the 
discussions surrounding the payment break were had before the pandemic and Mr A was 
still asking for a payment break in June 2020  because he said it was initially agreed he 
could have one.
The notes suggest that a payment break was originally agreed for Mr A, however, upon 
further assessment the decision was made to decline the request due to the level of arrears 
which RBS said were accumulated prior to Covid-19.
I have also listened to the calls that have been provided by RBS to try and get an 
understanding as to what has happened. The calls highlight the fact that Mr A was calling on 
a number of occasions to try and find out what was going on with the payment break  and 
he said that this was discussed and agreed with the first adviser he had spoken to. Mr A 
called many times to try and speak to the first adviser he had spoken to and the complaint 
hander who was dealing with his complaint.  So, I can understand why Mr A was frustrated. 
He said he felt he was at breaking point and it was causing him and his wife a lot of stress.
The mortgage statements from 2015 show that Mr A wasnt making payments each month, 
but he was making them up and paying more every few months  to try to make up the 
difference.
I can see from the mortgage statement dated 16 September 2018  15 September 2019, 
that Mr A wasnt keeping up with his mortgage payments.  There were only seven payments 
made in that year and the payments made, were not always enough to cover the contractual 
monthly payment.
Mr A hasnt paid his mortgage since December 2019. And as of July 2021, the arrears on 
the mortgage are £38,782.20.
Its evident from the statements that Mr As mortgage was already in substantial arrears and 
the notes show that the mortgage account was under the control of RBS collections and 
debt recovery team.
RBS said they were not able to honour a payment break, even though the adviser initially 
thought it would help Mr A, because it didnt look like he was able to keep up with the 
contractual monthly payments. They said there didnt seem to be any reduction in the 
mortgage arrears and because his account was in arrears, they were not able to offer a 
payment break.  
Ive looked at RBS policy and it states that if a mortgage has outstanding arrears, they are 
unable to offer a payment break. The policy states that when there are signs of financial 
difficulty  which there were in this case, any approval needs to be made by DMO. Due to 
the situation that Mr A found himself in, I dont think RBS have treated Mr A unfairly based 
on the individual circumstances that he was in at the time. The notes on file suggest that the 
flexi rate Mr A wanted was applied on the mortgage on 16 December 2019 and this has 
been confirmed by RBS  but the payment break could not be agreed.
I appreciate that Mr A said a payment break was agreed over the phone with the adviser he 
spoke to initially, but I cant see that this was ever agreed formally in writing  which is what 
we would expect to happen. 
Mr A has asked our service to try and obtain some calls which RBS have not been able to 
provide us  even though they have been requested. Even if we had these calls, I dont think 
there is any dispute that Mr A was given conflicting information over the telephone, so even 
if we had them, I dont think it would make a difference. It still wouldnt have been reasonable 
for Mr A to stop making his mortgage payments altogether  since December 2019.
I understand that Mr A said he was unsure what he would need to pay towards his mortgage 
as he was trying to sort out a new interest rate, but this doesnt mean he should have 
stopped paying his mortgage altogether. The conversations I have heard make it clear that a payment holiday hasnt been applied on the account yet, so payments towards the mortgage 
should still have been made. I therefore cannot agree that RBS are responsible for the 
arrears accruing on the mortgage.
Payment deferral
The notes and conversations had between Mr A and RBS have been ongoing for quite some 
time  and well before Covid-19. Mr A said that while these discussions were happening with 
the ongoing dispute of the payment break, the pandemic happened. He said he was then 
told he could have a Covid-19 payment deferral but due to the discussions that had already 
taken place, this was then declined. 
I have looked at RBS policy with regards to this and it states that deferrals cannot be given 
to any customers who are already in arrears. The guidance that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) put in place due to the Covid 19 pandemic is that lenders should give 
borrowers a payment deferral if they are experiencing difficulties which have been because 
of a direct impact of the virus itself. This would mean that even if borrowers were in arrears, 
if they were then impacted by Covid, they would still be entitled to a payment deferral. 
The notes Ive seen show that Mr A was already in arrears on his mortgage and from what I 
can see, he was not put in the situation he found himself in because of Covid-19. Therefore, 
I dont find that RBS have been unreasonable in not agreeing a payment deferral for Mr A.  
cIm also mindful that this may have not helped his situation and could have possibly made 
things worse for him. Any deferral agreed would have meant that the missed payments 
would have been added onto the mortgage balance which would have increased the 
outstanding balance.
The Covid-19 payment deferrals were specifically designed to help those borrowers who 
were directly impacted by Covid. Mr A has not said, based on the notes I have seen, that he 
found himself in his current situation because of Covid. And the notes I have seen show that 
Mr A was already behind on his mortgage by a substantial amount before the pandemic. 
Capitalisation of arrears
Ive thought about what Mr A has said about getting the arrears waived or capitalised to the 
account. Mr A has arrears on his mortgage which stemmed because he wasnt making the 
payments he was required to do. This isnt because RBS did anything wrong, so I will not be 
asking them to waive these. I also dont think they should be capitalising the arrears on the 
mortgage. If we asked RBS to capitalise the arrears, Mr As monthly payment would 
increase and because he has been unable to maintain his current monthly payment, I dont 
agree that this is suitable for him, because there would be an increase in the contractual 
monthly payment which Mr A has already struggled to maintain.
The most recent information we have from RBS states that the arrears balance as of July 
2021 was £38,782.20. Mr A will need to engage with RBS to discuss a way forward and 
arrange next steps to try and clear this outstanding balance. 
I can see that since Mr A brought his complaint to our service, he was thinking of asking 
RBS to extend the term of his mortgage. I can see that RBS have said that he would need to 
contact DMO to discuss this. Either way, the fact remains that Mr A will need to engage with 
RBS to decide what he can do moving forwards.
I appreciate that this outcome will come as a disappointment for Mr A, but I wont be asking 
RBS to do anything further based on the reasons I have already given. I do agree that things 
were not made easy for Mr A when he was asking about getting a payment break, but I think 
the compensation that has been awarded for £910.80 is sufficient for the mis-communication 
and conflicting information that RBS gave to him.RBS should continue to engage with Mr A to agree a way forwards and repossession should 
be a last resort. I understand that this outcome will come as a disappointment for Mr A but I 
cannot agree that RBS have acted unfairly in this situation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman