DRN-4003138
The complaint
Mr F, through his representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 
Money (Madison), lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
On 1 August 2017 Mr F was approved for one loan which was for £1,500 over a 24 month
term. The total to pay was £2,823.60. It was repayable each month with £117.65. Mr F paid
it off early in September 2018.
After his representative had complained to Madison, it responded with its final response
letter (FRL) in which it gave reasons why it did not think it had done anything wrong.
Mr Fs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one
of our adjudicators considered it.
Originally, our adjudicator issued a view in which he did not think Madison had done
anything wrong. He was prompted to review it and he altered his view. He thought that as
there had been a County Court Judgment (CCJ) a few months before Mr F applied to
Madison then that ought to have been a concern and alerted Madison to some issues
surrounding Mr Fs finances. Our adjudicator also pointed out that Mr F had opened five new
accounts in the lead-up to asking for this loan from Madison.
Madison disagreed and said that it acknowledged the CCJ, but it pointed out that the CCJ
related to an earlier debt and was for a modest sum.
And in relation to the five new accounts opened in the lead-up to this Madison loan, it said
that one was a short term loan account but the others were mail order and one credit card. It
also said that the accounts remained well within their limits and so had not been maxed out
immediately.
Mr Fs representative did acknowledge the view but said nothing further.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 March 2023 giving reasons why I considered that the 
complaint should not be upheld. That is duplicated in the next section for ease of reading 
and is in smaller type to differentiate it from this decision. 
I invited Mr F to send in further information if he wanted to and so far nothing has been 
received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision dated 13 March 2023
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, what I need to
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have
shown that Mr F wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F and that
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr F. In
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan
wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer,
a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Mr Fs application to Madison said that he lived with his parents, his outgoings were modest
at around £676 per month which included some rent to his parents, his food, some
maintenance payments as he had two dependents but he was single, and some insurance
costs. He had declared his credit commitment to be around £100 each month (included in
that £676 figure).
Mr F had said he worked full time and earned £1,441 each month and so the loan at just
over £117 a month would have looked affordable. Mr F gave no reason for why he wanted
the loan.
I have reviewed the credit search Madison obtained. Mr Fs overall debt was not high when
reviewing the credit check Madison carried out. And yet the CCJ on 24 February 2017  justsix months before applying to Madison - together with him having applied for a short-term
loan a few days before approaching Madison ought to have been an alert.
And I say this because, tracing that debt using the credit search results I can see it was a
telecommunications debt defaulted in May 2015 then passed to a debt collector and then the
CCJ followed. That was six months before Mr F applied for this loan. For Mr F to have been so badly 
in debt that the creditor took it to court and obtained a CCJ demonstrates very poor financial
management on Mr Fs part. And usually, a creditor would only apply for a CCJ after many
months of pursuing the debt in other ways.
But I dont consider that all this information from this credit search to have been enough to
prompt Madison to decline the loan. I would have expected it to have asked Mr F for
additional information before deciding what to do. This Madison loan was not an
insubstantial sum and it was for a two year term.
For example, it could have asked Mr F for more details about his outgoings. It could have
asked what the short term loan was for and what this Madison loan was for. It could have
asked about that CCJ and how he was planning to pay it off. It could have asked to review
his bank statements which is not the only way for a lender to make further enquiries but it
can be a convenient method to obtain a snapshot of a persons financial circumstances.
We have received nothing from Mr F about his financial circumstances and his complaint
form to us is very brief in its explanations.
So, without more I cannot come to a clear conclusion this complaint be upheld, as I am not
able to assess what it is that Madison may have discovered if it had carried out further
checks, as I would have expected it to have done before approving this loan. And yet on the
information Madison had, I do not consider it to have been enough, on its own, to lead me to
think that the loan was approved irresponsibly.
On current evidence, I plan not to uphold Mr Fs complaint, but I will review it in two weeks
and if Mr F has sent in some additional details about his financial circumstances Ill be able
to review the whole complaint then.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. 
How did the parties respond?
The reply date was 27 March 2023. That date has passed and Mr F has not sent in anything 
further. Madison has not replied. 
As I have nothing further from either party to lead me to alter my provisional view then for the 
same reasons given in that provisional decision I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman