DRN-3710018
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) will not allow him to transfer his buy to 
let mortgage to another property he already owns.
What happened
Mr L took out a buy to let mortgage in January 2021. He wants to sell the mortgaged 
property and transfer the mortgage to another property he owns. Santander will only allow 
him to transfer the mortgage to a property he wishes to buy and not one he already owns. Mr 
L says that his mortgage offer states that he has the right to transfer the loan to another 
property and that he didnt receive any further documentation about mortgage conditions. He 
says that the terms are unclear, unfair and inadequate and dont explicitly outline that he 
cant transfer the mortgage to a property he already owns.
Mr L says that he would not have purchased the product if he was aware he couldnt transfer 
it to a property he already owns. He says that he is now unable to buy a family home as he 
is tied into the buy to let mortgage until 2025 and would have to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) of over £14,000. 
Santander says that it believes that its conditions are not unclear, unfair or inadequate and 
are clear on the requirement that transfering can only be to a property that the customer 
wishes to buy. It says that this excludes a property that a customer already owns as they 
cannot wish to buy a property they already own. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ls complaint and concluded that Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong in declining his request to transfer his mortgage to an existing property, so 
didnt recommend that Santander took any further action.
Mr L disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. He questions 
where it says in the mortgage offer and terms and conditions that the mortgage cannot be 
transfered to a property the customer already owns and where the limitations of the 
mortgage are set out. Mr L says the mortgage offer is ambiguous and unclear as it refers to 
another property. He also says that wish to buy in the terms and conditions is a very loose 
term with no definitive qualification and that it doesnt say he cant transfer to a property he 
already owns.
I note that Mr L also complained about the service he had received from Santander on the 
phone. It upheld this part of his complaint and paid him £200 compensation. I think this was 
fair and reasonable and no further issue has been raised to this service in respect of this 
element of the complaint so I havent considered this aspect any further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigators 
view for broadly the same reasons and Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ive looked at the covering letter for Mr Ls mortgage offer from October 2020 which sets out 
that the offer is made up of three parts and that these, together with the mortgage conditions 
and mortgage deed, would form the terms of Mr Ls mortgage. The letter indicates that the 
Mortgage Offer and Standard Mortgage Terms and Conditions are attached.
Section 9 of the Mortgage Offer relates to Flexible features and states under Moving Home 
that You have the right to transfer this loan to another property. You must meet the 
conditions set out in the mortgage conditions under Transferring your loan to a new 
mortgage. You must also meet our lending criteria and pass our affordability assessment at 
the time.
Mr L has said that the mortgage offer only refers to being able to transfer the mortgage to 
another property and that he didnt receive any other documentation. However, Im satisfied 
that the covering letter and the offer itself made it clear that the option of being able to 
transfer the mortgage was subject to further conditions. So I dont think that the information 
provided by Santander in the mortgage offer is misleading here.
Ive also looked at the Standard Mortgage Terms and Conditions enclosed with the offer, in 
particular section 19 which is titled Transferring your loan to a new mortgage. This states at 
section 19.1 that the condition applies where a customer notifies Santander that they wish to 
pay off the money owed on completing a sale of the mortgaged property and at the same 
time, to complete a mortgage with us under which we will lend you money on the security of 
another property that you wish to buy. Section 19.2 defines new property under this section 
as the property which you wish to buy.
Mr L has also said that another property that you wish to buy is a very loose term with no 
definitive qualification. I disagree. In my view it is clear that this relates to a future intention 
to buy a property, and not to something in the past tense where the property has already 
been bought. So I am satisfied that the terms are clear that any transfer of the mortgage 
must be to a new property which hasnt yet been bought. It therefore follows that I think 
Santander acted reasonably in declining Mr Ls request to transfer the mortgage to another 
property he already owns.
The fact that the terms dont expressly say that a customer cannot transfer to an existing 
property does not make them unclear. The option to be able to transfer a mortgage to 
another property is a concession offered by the lender in order to add flexibility to the 
mortgage. As set out above, I am satisfied that the terms adequately define the conditions 
under which this can be done so it is unnecessary for them to further set out every example 
of when it cannot be done. 
Mr L says that he wouldnt have taken the mortgage if hed known he couldnt transfer it to a 
property he already owned. For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that Santanders 
terms and conditions were clear on this. However, the mortgage was sold by a broker (and 
not by Santander directly) so if Mr L wishes to complain that he wasnt given the correct 
information or that the mortgage was mis-sold on this basis then this would be a complaint 
he would need to make to the broker who sold him the mortgage. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Santander UK Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman