DRN-3029289
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ive seen Mrs Ps credit card application form. There was a 
heading entitled Optional Features under which there was a separate section for PPI 
containing yes and no boxes to either select or decline the policy. Mrs P has ticked the 
yes box to request PPI.
As the sale took place in branch it is likely that Lloyds advised Mrs P to take out the PPI. 
As Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs P, it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Ps circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Mrs P was eligible for the cover 
and although shes said she had some existing means she still seems to have had a 
need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Ps employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs P says she had medical conditions some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. I say this because Mrs P has talked about having a number of 
childhood illnesses when she was around the age of five, which would not be classed as 
pre-existing medical conditions under the policy. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health and back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs P as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs P 
would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs P would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ps particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman