DRN-2868902
The complaint
Mr S, who is represented by a claims management company, (CMC) complains that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited rejected his claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect of a timeshare purchase.
What happened
This complaint is made by Mr S as the borrower, but the acquisition of the timeshare was 
made by him and his wife. To keep things simple in this decision I will refer to Mr S as the 
purchaser.
In May 2008 Mr S bought a timeshare at a cost of £2,050 and used his credit card to make 
payment. In May 2009 while on holiday he purchased a timeshare membership at a cost of 
£8,765 funded in part by a loan from Clydesdale. He says that was pressurised into making 
the purchase and promised that he could sell it back. However, this proved not to be the 
case. He says that his family stopped using the timeshare as they could get better 
accommodation with other companies. He says that the maintenance fees increased 
significantly and it was difficult to book where they wanted and when they wanted.
Clydesdale rejected his claim and so the CMC brought the matter to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
concluded the claim was most likely time barred due to the Limitation Act.
The CMC didnt agree and said there was no statutory time limit on raising a complaint. It 
said that their client was not a sophisticated buyer and didnt have access to professional 
advice earlier and so wasnt aware of his rights. It said Mr S only became aware he had 
cause for complaint in September 2018. It also suggested the loan had all the hallmarks of 
being unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, Mr S 
has a like claim against Clydesdale just as he would have against the supplier. So, if his 
claim against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, then 
that is something Clydesdale could take into account when it considers the claim against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Mr S has 
said the timeshare he bought was misrepresented to him.
Under the Limitation Act, he would have six years from the date upon which he suffered a 
loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring his claim. 
As Clydesdale steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work 
out when the clock starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it 
would start if the claim had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of 
the complaint, I think damage occurred when Mr S suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
The CMC says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, Mr S paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused him to suffer a loss. It says that but for the misrepresentation, 
Mr S wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid any money to the 
supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in May 2009. Thats the moment when he accepted any potential benefit under the 
contract, and it was also the moment he accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr S 
needed to raise his claim no later than May 2015. As I understand it, he raised his claim in 
March 2019, which is nearly 10 years after the loss occurred.
Mr S may say that he wasnt aware he could raise concerns about the misrepresentation 
until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims such as this, start to 
run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date he became aware that 
something might have gone wrong.  
The CMC has raised the possibility of a claim being admitted under s 32. Typically, s.32 
applies to fraudulent misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment. It can extend the 
time the consumer has to raise a claim. However, it would appear that Mr S has raised a 
number of issues with the product (over and above commission) in his claim/complaint and 
those issues could have been discoverable earlier. 
He says that he faced increasing maintenance charges, an inability to make bookings and 
an inability to sell the timeshare. All of those suggest he had grounds for making 
acclaim/complaint before he did and to have done so within the time limit. That means I 
cannot conclude that s 32 extends the time limit in this complaint. 
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr S would 
have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the information I 
have, the finance agreement ended in December 2009 so a s.140A claim needed to be 
raised no later than December 2015. As I understand it, Mr S raised his claim in March 2019, 
which is more than nine years after his finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether or not any claim Mr S may have against the supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that his misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim against Clydesdale more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for Clydesdale to take 
this into account when considering this s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that Mr Ss claim now is more than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I 
think Clydesdales decision not to look into this claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman