DRN-2604555
The complaint
Miss H complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) provided her with a loan without
properly checking whether it was affordable for her.
What happened
Halifax provided Miss H with an unsecured personal loan of £30,000 in December 2017
which was to be repaid over 84 months. She maintained her payments until February 2019
when her personal circumstances changed, and she fell into financial difficulties. She
complained to Halifax that theyd provided her with a loan she couldnt afford to repay and
that Halifax didnt carry out enough checks.
Miss H explained shed quoted her income on the application form as £2,800 but this was
incorrect and her income was actually £2,087. Her application form also said she was living
with her parents and listed her rent as £60, but she said this was wrong. Shes said her
statements show payments of over £1,000 leaving her account each month. She said as she
banked with Halifax, they shouldve been aware of all of this. She also said the application
form recorded her outgoings as £60 which isnt reasonable.
Miss H also referred to other lending she had at the time which showed she couldnt afford
the loan repayments. She said Halifax told her it didnt use credit reference agencies in its
decision to lend to her so she was unhappy about this.
Miss H was also unhappy Halifax refused to increase her credit card limit, but they provided
her with a loan of £30,000.
Halifax didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint, they said the loan was affordable based on the
checks it carried out and she maintained payments until February 2019 when she spoke to
Halifax about her financial difficulties.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the information Miss H provided on
the application form indicated the monthly loan repayments were affordable. She explained it
was up to Miss H to provide accurate information about her income and outgoings so she
couldnt hold Halifax responsible for this. And she wouldnt have expected Halifax to go
through Miss Hs statements.
She explained Halifax did use a credit score ID and that when shed investigated Miss Hs
complaint, shed taken this into account. She said the information on Miss Hs credit file
showed her accounts were maintained. So overall, she didnt think Halifax had done
anything wrong in its decision to lend to her.
She also noted Miss H had been able to make payments until February 2019 when Miss H
fell into financial difficulties and that Miss H had not contacted Halifax prior to this.
As the issue about the declined credit card limit increase is a separate matter, our
investigator said shell only be focusing on the lending of the loan.
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint, Miss H requested an ombudsmans decision.
On 28 January 2021 I issued a provisional decision, an extract of which Ive provided below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached a different outcome to the
investigator, my provisional decision sets out why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for;
as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of their application.
Having looked at Miss Hs application form I can see the loan was for £30,000 which was to
be repaid over 84 months which meant her monthly repayments were £433.25. Miss H
declared her income as £2,800 and said she was living with her parents, quoting £60 as her
outgoings.
Halifax have said they use their own credit scoring system which takes into account various
pieces of information and this helps them decide whether or not an application is accepted.
Theyve provided this information along with the credit reference agency data they used in
their calculations to determine whether the loan was affordable for Miss H. They took into
account the £60 shed quoted along with approximately £450 for her existing debts and
approximately a further £450 for essential living costs. This left her with a surplus of just over
£1,840 so they felt she could afford her monthly loan repayments. They also noted she had
no defaults and that there was no detection of any CCJs or bankruptcies.
However, Miss H has since said her monthly income is actually £2,087 and that she wasnt
living with her parents, shes referred to regular payments she made to an individual which
reduced her income significantly. She also explained at the time of taking the loan out she
was the main earner in her household and was also supporting three children at the time.
Miss H believes Halifax shouldve known her income and expenditure was incorrect because
she banks with them and they couldve checked her statements.
Were Halifaxs checks reasonable and proportionate?
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Halifax to rely on the figures Miss H quoted
on her application form particularly given that the loan was for a relatively high amount,
£30,000.
Halifax have said this was an automated credit decisioning process which is industry
standard and its not reasonable or proportionate to expect them to check statements for an
application of unsecured lending.
Whilst I do acknowledge Miss H had a duty to provide accurate information, the figure she
quoted for her outgoings was only £60 which is low and given the size of the loan, I think
Halifax shouldve looked into her financial situation further than it did. And I dont think this
wouldve been too onerous given that Miss H banks with them. For this reason, I also thinkthat Halifax could have checked Miss Hs income because she received her salary into her
current account which she held with Halifax.
Miss Hs credit commitments
I have taken into account the fact that Halifax didnt solely rely on the expenditure quoted
from Miss H. As explained above they also took into account £447 for her credit
commitments based on their internal data and credit reference agency data and £453 for her
essential living costs, which is a figure based on an internal model.
Ive looked at Miss Hs credit commitments and can see in May 2017 (seven months before
she took her loan with Halifax) she took a loan for £9,000. Miss Hs bank statements show
she was making repayments of about £340 per month towards this loan.
However, Miss H used some of the funds from the Halifax loan to repay this debt. Halifax
were probably unaware this would happen as Miss H didnt say the debt was for partly for
consolidation. But this did help to reduce Miss Hs existing credit commitments, and this
wouldve helped her with her affordability of the Halifax loan payments. So Ive not
considered this loan when Ive looked at Miss Hs affordability.
I note Miss H had two credit cards, one of which seems to have had a nil balance since May
2017 and wasnt used again until after the Halifax loan was issued. Her second credit card
had a limit of £5,500 and when she applied for her loan, her credit card balance was
approximately £3,500.
Halifax have said they accounted for Miss Hs credit commitments including 3.5% of the
balance on credit cards which is higher than the minimum monthly repayment. But Miss Hs
credit file shows she was often paying more than this. She paid £1,129 in July 2017, £105 in
August 2017, £278 in September 2017, £284 in October 2017, £456 in November 2017 and
£580 in December 2017. So in the run up to taking the Halifax loan Miss H paid over £447
towards this debt on some occasions. So I am minded to conclude the amount Halifax
allocated for her credit commitments was less than what Miss H was paying in reality.
Miss H has also told us about a number of loans she had, which she was a guarantor for. I
can see from January 2017- November 2017 she received credits on four occasions and on
each occasion, she transferred the money out to the recipient. I think it was possible she
would be asked to make future payments as a guarantor. However, Miss H didnt tell Halifax
about these loans in her application form and I think she should have done. Although I
acknowledge the current account statements dont show regular repayments for these loans,
had Halifax spoken to Miss H, she may have explained that she was a guarantor.
Miss Hs essential living costs (including rent)
Halifax used a figure of £453 to calculate Miss Hs essential expenditure, which was based
on an internal model. Theyve said this includes spending on things such as utilities,
groceries, commuting etc. Halifax have said as this figure didnt include rent, they also took
into consideration the amount Miss H had quoted on her application form for rent, which was
£60.
Halifax have said the rules (CONC) allows them to use statistical data for essential
expenditure, which it does but given the size of the loan and that shed quoted such a low
amount for her outgoings, I think it would have been reasonable for Halifax to carry out
further enquiries. And having gone through Miss Hs statements I think Miss Hs overall
outgoings were far higher than Halifax had accounted for.I can see Miss H was made to regularly transfer money to an individual. Miss H has shared
her very personal situation detailing the circumstances around these transfers and Im sorry
to hear about everything shes been through, this has clearly been a difficult time emotionally
and financially.
Miss H has said she paid £1,300 in rent each month to this individual. In the months prior to
the Halifax loan application I can see payments for this amount were made in August 2017,
October 2017, November 2017 and December 2017. So I think her rent alone was greater
than Halifax had taken into consideration.
Would the loan have been approved?
Halifax has provided me with a reconstruction of Miss Hs income and expenditure. They
have stated her income as £2,087 and included the Halifax loan of £433.25 along with her
rent of £1,300 which leaves a surplus of £352.75.
Although Halifax included Miss Hs rent, they said they didnt include the payments made to
the individual she was in a relationship with as these werent regular. Halifax also said they
didnt include payments made to the Miss Hs credit card company as its not entirely clear
from the statements whether these payments related to her credit facility.
But having looked at Miss Hs credit file, I can see she was paying towards her credit card
debt each month. In the six months leading up to her Halifax loan she paid more than the
surplus of £352.75 half the time. Halifaxs reconstruction also doesnt seem to include her
other essential expenditure. Therefore I think Miss Hs Halifax loan was unaffordable.
So taking everything into consideration, had Halifax carried out further checks I dont think
the loan would have been approved.
I also need to think about whats fair here. And while Ive said that the loan was, in reality
unaffordable  and that if Halifax had carried out proportionate checks of information it
already had in its possession it would have discovered this  I also need to bear in mind that
Miss H didnt complete the application accurately. So I need to consider whether she also
bears some responsibility for the lending decision.
Miss H has shared detailed testimony of her personal circumstances around the time the
loan was taken out, as well as the reasons it was applied for  and applied for in her name 
with incorrect information. Shes also provided supporting evidence from third parties,
including the police. Having carefully considered all of this, Im satisfied that the evidence
shows that Miss H was in an abusive relationship at the time the loan was taken out, and the
abuse included financial abuse. Im also satisfied that the abuse, and the duress that was
placed on her, was the reason Miss H applied for this loan using incorrect information. In the
circumstances, I accept that Miss H didnt apply for the loan willingly or  except as Ive set
out below  benefit from the funds. And thats an important factor for me to take into account
in deciding whats fair.
Financial difficulties
I have also noted that Miss H maintained her loan repayments from the points at which the
account was opened until February 2019. Based on the information provided, it seems Miss
Hs circumstances changed and she was paying bills herself rather than sharing these. It
was at this point that she fell into financial difficulties and was no longer able to make her
repayments. I can see Halifax referred Miss H to their customer priority team to agree a way
forwards.In June 2020 Miss H has declared herself bankrupt. The loan from Halifax was included in
the bankruptcy and had a balance of £13,598.89 outstanding at the time, so Miss H wont be
pursued for this. Although Miss Hs bankruptcy has since been discharged, Miss Hs trustee
has an interest in the complaint.
As Miss H made repayments to the loan prior to the bankruptcy Ive considered whether
Halifax needs to do anything to put this right. Ive taken into consideration that part of this
loan (£8,517.17) paid off an existing debt so Miss H has had some benefit of the funds.
However, Miss H hasnt benefitted from the remainder of the loan funds. I say this because
the funds were mainly spent on purchasing a new car. Ive seen screenshots from social
media which suggest the car was for Miss Hs ex-partner, not herself. Ive also listened to
Miss Hs testimony and seen a copy of a police report showing Miss H was in an abusive
relationship at the time and that she was taken advantage of financially by her partner.
So I think any payments Miss H made towards the loan over £8,517.17 should be refunded,
and any interest and charges applied over this amount should also be refunded. These
payments should be made to her trustee in bankruptcy, unless the trustee agrees that they
can be paid direct to her.
Because I dont think Halifax wouldve given the loan to Miss H had they carried out further
checks, I also think Miss Hs credit file should be updated and any adverse information
should be removed.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking Bank
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to:-
refund any payments Miss H made towards the loan over £8,517.17
refund any interest and charges that were applied once Miss H repaid £8,517.17 of
the loan
remove any adverse data supplied to the credit reference agencies about the loan.
Miss H accepted the decision. However, she explained that she didnt solely benefit from the 
loan of £9,000 that was granted to her in May 2017 by a third party. Miss H explained shed 
transferred more than £4,500 to her ex-partner and provided statements highlighting the 
transfers that she made.
Halifax also accepted the decision. However, they said they didnt think Miss Hs rent would 
have been as high as £1,300 based on rental and mortgage value estimates at the time and 
therefore this wouldnt have alerted them that these payments were any type of contractual 
payment that had to be taken into account. .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H provided statements which she says shows she didnt solely benefit from the loan of 
£9,000 which was provided by a third party. She has highlighted various transfers which 
were made to her ex-partner.
However some of these transfers seem to have been made to her ex-partner prior to the 
loan of £9,000 crediting her current account, although I can see transfers were also made after this time. But regardless of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Halifax 
responsible for these particular payments Miss H made to her ex-partner as this loan wasnt 
provided by Halifax. And as explained above, I have taken into consideration payments Miss 
H made to her ex-partner in terms of the affordability of the Halifax loan. 
Ive also considered the information put forward by Halifax. Whilst I accept it might not have 
been clear from the statements that the payments of £1,300 were for rent, as Ive explained 
above, I think there were strong enough reasons for Halifax to carry out further checks once 
theyd received Miss Hs application based on the information shed provided. And had they 
done so, they would have realised her outgoings overall were far higher than they had 
accounted for. 
Even if the rent wasnt as much as £1,300, these were payments that Miss H Made to her 
ex-partner which she said was to cover the rent. And given the nature of the relationship I 
can understand why Miss H paid this, and this formed part of her outgoings.
 
Taking everything into account my decision remains the same as for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking Bank
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to:-
refund any payments Miss H made towards the loan over £8,517.17
refund any interest and charges that were applied once Miss H repaid £8,517.17 of
the loan
remove any adverse data supplied to the credit reference agencies about the loan.
These payments should be made to Miss Hs trustee in bankruptcy, unless the trustee 
agrees that they can be paid direct to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman