DRN-1463476
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Tradex Insurance Company Limited didnt investigate a claim he made 
on his commercial motor insurance policy properly and caused delays in the process.  
What happened
Mr Z told Tradex that on 22 November 2018 he was the victim of a staged accident at a 
roundabout, when the driver in front braked suddenly for no reason. He says that 
immediately after the incident he was assaulted. Mr Z reported it to the police and to Tradex. 
On 20 December 2018 Mr Z told Tradex he wanted it to get details from the police, including 
the CCTV footage the police had told him they were going to obtain. Tradex made the 
request for the report on 14 January 2019, but the police didnt provide it until July 2019. The 
report  showed that the council had told the police the incident wasnt captured on CCTV.  
Meanwhile, Tradex had received two personal injury claims, from the driver and passenger 
of the car Mr Z collided with. It told the solicitors acting for them that liability investigations 
were ongoing. It later asked the solicitors to pay for part of the police report, so it could be 
shared with them. In September 2019 Mr Z complained to Tradex about the delay in dealing 
with the claim. He said he wanted it to start legal proceedings. Tradex said the police report 
didnt help in terms of liability and that it couldnt allege fraud without evidence. But it offered 
Mr Z £100 compensation for minor delays and for calls back to him not being made. 
As Mr Z was still unhappy with the situation, he complained to us. One of our investigators 
concluded that Tradex had acted reasonably. He said it would have needed strong evidence 
to argue that a fraudulent claim had been made, but there were no witnesses and no CCTV 
footage of the incident. He noted that Mr Z thought Tradex had waited too long to ask for 
CCTV evidence - but also that Mr Z had told Tradex the police were getting it.
 
The investigator noted that Mr Z believed Tradex had delayed the claim and hadnt done 
enough to investigate it. But he thought the major delays were caused by the police and the 
other drivers solicitors. He thought it was reasonable for Tradex not to request a recording 
of a call Mr Z made to the police, as it wouldnt help to establish liability. He said as the claim 
was still open, that would affect Mr Zs no claims discount and premiums. He said once 
liability was decided, Mr Z could make a further complaint about that if necessary. 
Mr Z was unhappy with the investigators view. He was adamant that the CCTV footage 
wasnt sought until over a month after the accident, as Tradex didnt contact the council and 
only wrote to the police in January 2019. As there was no agreement, the complaint was 
passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z says the location of the accident is a well-known hotspot for staged incidents. Whilst 
that may be the case, and the incident may well have been staged, an insurer needs firm 
evidence to challenge claims made after an accident on the grounds that theyre fraudulent. 
In this case, as there are no independent witnesses, clear CCTV coverage of the accident 
would have been essential to establish beyond doubt what happened. Its clear from the 
notes on Tradexs file that Mr Z told it in December 2018 that the police were going to obtain 
any CCTV footage of the incident  and thats what happened. The police report shows that 
they asked the council for it on 24 November 2018, just two days after the accident. The 
council replied the next day to say  We have checked the cameras at the location stated 
and regrettably, nothing was captured. 
 
Based on this information, there was no delay in the police seeking CCTV coverage of the 
accident, but unfortunately it wasnt recorded. Thats often the case, even if a camera is 
present and working at the time of an incident. It depends on the angle of the camera and 
the precise location of the accident. I think the councils email to the police shows that there 
was no question of any footage being wiped, as that wouldnt have happened within two 
days. The council confirmed in the email that it retains CCTV footage for 31 days.
 
I think its fair for Mr Z to say there was a delay in Tradex requesting the police report and 
the CCTV footage from the police. But it was a short delay, and I dont think it had any 
impact on Mr Zs case, as the police didnt have any CCTV footage to pass on to Tradex 
anyway. Had CCTV footage been recorded on the day of the accident, the police would have 
taken a copy of it from the council a few days later. So it would have been available to view 
even if Tradex had delayed longer than it did in asking the police for information. 
If the situation were different  and Mr Z could show that undue delay on Tradexs part 
meant the footage was recorded over - I think hed have good cause to complain about it. 
But the evidence shows that isnt what happened. Its very unfortunate for Mr Z, but it seems 
the accident and the assault were never recorded. 
Tradex couldnt speed up the return of the police report, as that was outside its control. Its 
not unusual for police reports to take months to process and I think Tradex was prevented 
from making any progress on the claim for over six months because of that. Even then, it 
needed the other drivers solicitors to co-operate and to review the details in the police 
report. But they didnt reply to Tradexs emails, which caused further delay. Taking all this 
into account, I dont think Tradex was to blame for any major delay in processing the claim.
Mr Z thought Tradex acted unreasonably in not asking the police for the recording of the call 
between him and the police in which hed described the driver of the other car and his 
passenger. He said the personal injury claimants didnt fit the description hed given at the 
time of the accident. If thats the case, I think its a matter for the police to pursue. But the 
descriptions Mr Z gave the police wouldnt help to establish liability for the accident. As thats 
what Tradex was trying to do, I dont think it acted unreasonably in not asking for the 
recording. Tradex was willing to pass the details it had about the claimants to the police, but 
I think it was right for it to point out that theyd have to make a formal request in line with data 
protection rules. If Mr Z thought that was poor service I think he was mistaken.
Mr Z told the investigator that hes in severe financial difficulties as his premiums have risen 
sharply. I sympathise with the very difficult position Mr Z has found himself in. But the only 
way his premiums will reduce is if he can show that the other driver caused the accident. 
Whilst a claim is open its standard practice for it to be treated as a fault claim. 
I think its understandable that Mr Z is so frustrated by the time it has taken to deal with the 
claim, but I dont think that  or the lack of any CCTV evidence  is Tradexs fault. As I dont 
think Mr Z has shown that Tradex acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman