DRN-1545442
 
The complaint
Miss G complains about the impact The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limiteds (NFU) decision not to offer her a new policy at policy renewal has had on her ability 
to get insurance elsewhere.
 What happened
Miss G made a large escape of water claim. She was unhappy with the way that claim was 
handled and made a complaint to us about NFUs handling of her claim and the settlement 
itd offered. That complaint was decided by another ombudsman in October 2019.
Because Miss G was unhappy with NFUs handling of her claim, she said that during a 
meeting in April 2018, she told one of its claims specialists that she no longer wanted to be 
insured by NFU. She wanted to end the relationship with it and didnt want its contractors 
dealing with her claim.
In May 2018, NFU wrote to tell Miss G it wouldnt be offering her a policy at the next renewal. 
The letter told Miss G that shed need to disclose this to future insurers.
Miss G was unhappy with NFUs decision and she asked us to look into this complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Miss Gs complaint should be upheld. He wasnt 
persuaded that there was enough evidence to show Miss G had asked NFU to cancel her 
policy. NFUs process didnt allow claims specialists to cancel policies themselves. So the 
investigator thought either the claims specialist wouldnt have accepted the instruction, or 
thered likely have been a record of such a request to be followed up by the correct area if he 
had. 
The investigator noticed Miss G and the claims specialist had followed up their meeting with 
an email exchange the next day. Miss G had flagged up several things she thought needed 
more consideration. But the emails made no reference to a request to cancel the policy. The 
investigator thought Miss G wouldve likely chased this up at the time. Miss G had offered to 
send statements from two witnesses to support her version of events. But the investigator 
didnt think he could put significant weight on such evidence, because of the nature of the 
relationships between Miss G and the witnesses.
Overall, the investigator thought it was fair for NFU to have decided not to offer insurance at 
policy renewal.
 
Miss G disagreed. Ive summarised her main points below:
She thought the claims specialist had confirmed the cancellation of the policy in the 
email chain. Shed spoken to him after shed got the cancellation letter and hed told her it had 
been sent in error. She said shed been told the claims specialist had said hed 
informed NFU that she wanted to cancel the policy. 
Shed spoken to an underwriter whod also told her the letter had been sent by 
mistake. 
She hadnt known about the cancellation process in the policy.
While NFU had told us the phone calls between Miss G and the claims specialist 
werent recorded, she was told by another member of NFU staff that all calls to that 
number are recorded.
She provided a witness statement from a former employee, which supported what 
shed told us about whatd happened during the meeting and the subsequent calls 
with NFU.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think NFU has treated 
Miss G fairly. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Miss G that while Ive summarised her complaint, Ive considered 
everything shes provided in detail. Ive focused though on what I think are the key issues.
Did Miss G cancel the policy?
Miss G says she told the claims specialist to cancel her policy at renewal during a meeting 
that took place in April 2018. The statement from her former employee supports this version 
of events and I thank Miss G for sending me this information.
NFUs notes from the day after the meeting dont suggest Miss G asked NFU to cancel her 
policy. The notes acknowledge she was unhappy with the way her claim had been handled. 
They say Miss G will not be dealing with us or (the loss adjuster) anymore. The notes 
explain some of the issues Miss G was experiencing at that point and that NFU was looking 
to move the claim forward for Miss G. The notes also show that the claims specialist called 
one of our case handlers here to discuss the progress of the claim. Theres no note to 
suggest Miss G had asked to cancel the policy during this meeting.
Ive next carefully considered the email correspondence between Miss G and the claims 
specialist in the days following this meeting. Miss G clearly explained some of her concerns 
around the settlement shed been offered and set out some of the items she thought had 
been missed. Miss G also flagged up a point about a health issue related to the claim which 
the claims specialist hadnt mentioned. Theres no record in these emails to show that Miss 
G asked the claims specialist to cancel the policy.
I accept Miss G said she wanted to use a builder to get the works done who wasnt 
connected to NFU in the emails Ive seen. But I dont think this indicates an agreement that 
the claims specialist would arrange for the policy to be cancelled.
Wheres theres a dispute about whats happened, I have to make my decision based on 
what I think is most likely to have happened, by weighing up the available evidence. On one 
hand, Miss G has provided me with her version of events, which has been supported by her 
witness. On the other hand, I have NFUs records from the time. Ive considered everything 
carefully.
On balance, I find NFUs evidence more persuasive that Miss G didnt specifically ask the claims specialist to cancel her policy at renewal during their meeting. I can see that the 
claims specialist made detailed notes about the meeting, which reflected things thatd gone 
wrong with NFUs handling of the claim and how it could be moved forward. He 
acknowledged that Miss G didnt want to deal with NFU any more. And he followed this 
meeting up with Miss G by email to check his understanding of their discussion.
It seems to me that given the level of detail in NFUs notes, if Miss G had asked for her 
policy to be cancelled, this wouldve been noted too. I say this because the claims specialist 
wouldnt have been able to action the cancellation himself. Ive seen what the policy says 
about cancellation and the process Miss G needed to follow to cancel the policy. So I think 
hed likely have needed to get someone else to follow this up. 
Additionally, there was no mention of cancelling Miss Gs policy in the follow up email chain. 
Given Miss G clarified other issues with the claims specialist and explained why she was 
unhappy with the works, Id have expected her to confirm that the claims specialist had 
requested cancellation in this email.
Its possible Miss G meant she wanted the policy to be cancelled and this wasnt picked up 
on by the claims adviser. But I simply dont think theres enough evidence from the time to 
persuade me its most likely she requested cancellation of the policy.
Was the cancellation letter sent by mistake?
Miss G says the claims specialist and one of the underwriters told her that the policy 
cancellation letter had been sent by mistake. 
NFU has told us the calls werent recorded. Its unfortunate I cant listen to these calls to 
understand what was said. But the notes Ive seen dont suggest that the letter was sent by 
mistake. NFU decided not to offer Miss G a new policy at renewal and this decision seems to 
have been made in line with its underwriting guidance. So NFU sent Miss G a letter to tell 
her about its decision, to give her the chance to arrange alternative insurance elsewhere.
Even if Miss G was told the letter had been sent in error, I dont think this would make a 
difference to my view of her complaint. Its clear NFU didnt plan to cover Miss G going 
forwards. And because I dont think Miss G did cancel her policy before the letter was sent, I 
think it was appropriate for NFU to let her know about its decision. It seems to me that if Miss 
G had been told the letter was sent in error; this wouldve been a mistake on its part. But I 
dont think this would mean that NFU should treat Miss Gs policy any differently.
Overall, I think NFU has treated Miss G fairly. So I'm not telling it to take any action.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman