DRN-3796313
The complaint
Mr D complains that Phoenix Life Limited advised him not to join his former employers 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) and instead take out a personal pension arrangement. 
He considers he lost out financially as a result. 
What happened
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent both parties her 
assessment of the complaint in September 2022. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint were set out in that assessment. But in brief, Mr D had been advised to take out a 
personal pension arrangement by Phoenix Life (trading as Britannic Assurance at the time) 
in 1988/89. Mr D subsequently joined his employers OPS in 1994. Mr D had seen media 
reports about the mis-selling of pensions and he complained to the firm. This was at around 
the time that the regulator had ordered firms to review historical sales of past pension 
business, and the sale of Mr Ds pension arrangement was included in the review. Mr D had 
also been advised to take out a personal pension by another firm. That advice was also 
included as part of Phoenix Lifes (Britannics) review, as it acted as the lead reviewer.
Phoenix Life wrote to Mr D in 1998 saying that it had completed a loss calculation, and this 
showed Mr D hadnt suffered a loss as a result of taking out the personal pension. Mr D 
raised some concerns about the information used in the calculations, and a further 
calculation was completed in 1999. This calculation also showed that Mr D hadnt suffered a 
loss.
Mr D complained about the matter to the firm a number of times over the years, and his 
latest complaint was referred to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint 
should be upheld. She said Phoenix Life had completed a loss calculation as part of the 
Pension Review.  She said the calculation had shown that Mr D hadnt suffered a loss, and 
that we couldnt repeat that process. She said Phoenix Life had provided a copy of its review 
file, and she thought it had carried out its review in line with the guidance that the regulator 
had issued at the time. The investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence to show that the 
calculations or assumptions used in them had been incorrect.
The investigator noted that Mr D had asked the firm to do another calculation comparing the 
benefits hed actually receive with those hed lost out on by not joining the former employers 
scheme. However the investigator said the pension review was meant to be a one-off 
exercise and was based on assumptions that the then regulator considered were reasonable 
at the time. She said some of the assumptions used for growth rates in the calculations 
didnt materialise, and along with falling annuity rates, had an impact on the benefits 
provided by personal pensions. However she said this was only seen with the benefit of 
hindsight and wasnt a reason to require firms to redo their calculations. The investigator 
didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said, in summary, that he thought the 
investigator should have independently checked Phoenix Lifes calculations and asked that 
she did this. He said he believed he had suffered a loss by not having his employers 
contributions paid into his company pension scheme. And as it was a defined benefit 
scheme it was a much better pension. He said he was contributing at a far higher rate to his 
personal pension than he would otherwise have paid into his company scheme and this 
should have been taken into account. And his employers scheme provided life cover, which 
also hadnt been accounted for.
Mr D said hed like to challenge the assumptions used by the regulator as he thought they 
werent fit for purpose. Mr D asked that the loss should be recalculated based on up-to-date 
information rather than assumptions that were wildly optimistic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the 1990s the regulator had identified there had been potentially widespread pension mis-
selling. It set up an industry wide review of pensions business as referred to by the 
investigator. The aim of the review was to provide consumers who had been mis-sold with 
redress, where due, as an alternative to them taking court action. 
The regulator set timescales for firms to complete their reviews. Phoenix Life had a 
regulatory obligation to carry out its review, which it did, in 1998/99. The standards for the 
review and methodology for calculating redress were set out in detail by the regulator, and 
necessarily involved making a number of assumptions given that a number of investors 
wouldnt retire for a number of years. 
As the investigator explained, some of those assumptions havent mirrored reality over the 
20 or so years since.  But I dont think that in itself means they were unrealistic at the time. 
They were set by the regulator and independently of firms. A lot of thought was given to 
them. The period since has seen the financial crisis, the prolonged period of historically low 
interest rates following it, and Covid. All had significant impacts on investment returns and 
annuity rates, which both affect the ultimate benefits payable for personal pensions. Mr D 
has said he wants to challenge the regulators assumptions; however he will need to contact 
the regulator itself if he considers its assumptions were wrong.
Mr D has mentioned some factors that he thinks werent taken into account in the loss 
calculations, like the contributions made by his former employer, paying more into the 
personal pension and life cover. However these were taken into account in the calculations 
to value the benefits of the occupational pension scheme. However its comparable value 
was lower than the personal pension at the time that the calculation was completed, hence 
showed no loss had been suffered at that time.
I do understand why Mr D is unhappy with the situation and wants the calculation completed 
comparing the actual benefits. However the firm was required to carry out the Pensions 
Review and the aim was effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-selling and put 
matters right, if need be, at that time. If the regulator had said that firms should wait until 
individuals actually reached retirement age (which in some cases was 20/30 years or more 
away), many people would have been denied any redress at all (where a loss was found at 
the time) because the firm concerned may have ceased to exist. 
Mr D has said we should independently check Phoenix Lifes calculations. Whilst we do look 
to see that some of the basic information that was used in the calculation was correct, we 
dont have the software required to check those calculations. Calculations were checked in- 
house by firms, and also samples checked by the regulator during regulatory visits. We 
provide a free service, and these types of calculation are very expensive and require 
specialist training. Its not a service that we are able to offer.Overall, I havent seen anything that would indicate to me that the transaction in this case 
wasnt reviewed in accordance with the regulatory standards for the review. I realise that my 
findings will be disappointing to Mr D. But given that the firm complied with the regulators 
requirements when it reviewed the transaction in 1998/1999, I dont think it would be 
appropriate for me to order the firm to revisit the matter again now.
Overall therefore, Im not persuaded that a case has been made to require the firm to revisit 
its calculations.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman