DRN-1106026
 
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the amount of compensation Admiral Insurance Company Limited has 
offered him for the way it dealt with him after an accident and in the course of his claim on 
his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr F was involved in an accident on a motorway. He contacted Admiral to make a claim and 
arrange for his vehicle to be recovered. He is unhappy that it didnt call him back as 
promised and that it took five hours for his vehicle to be recovered.
Admiral accepted in its final response that there was poor communication with the recovery 
agents and if it had handled things better Mr F wouldnt have had to wait five hours for 
recovery. And it also didnt contact him as promised. It accepted Mr F had been left in a 
dangerous position at the side of the road for too long. It apologised and paid him £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset he had been caused.
Mr F said this wasnt enough compensation for being put at risk and stressed.  
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary, he said Mr Fs policy 
doesnt offer a response time for recovery and it hasnt breached any contractual terms. But 
there was clearly an unnecessary delay caused by Admirals handling of matters. It also 
accepts there were failings in its service. Although Mr F says he was put at risk luckily 
nothing actually happened. We can only compensate for what happened not what might 
have happened. As a result he isnt recommending Admiral pays any further compensation.
Mr F remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. he says he was extremely 
stressed  and should be paid more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I understand Mr Fs frustration. It is clear Admiral couldve handled things better at times and 
failed to communicate with him as it had promised to do. This undoubtedly led to it taking 
some hours longer than anticipated to recover his vehicle and increased the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. I think this warrants an award of some compensation. 
Admiral has acknowledged its failings and apologised for them. Thats fair. Its also 
paid £300 compensation for the trouble and upset Mr F was caused. Mr F says that isnt 
enough as he was put in harms way by the delay in recovery. But thankfully he didnt come 
to harm. As such I cannot compensate him for what mightve, but didnt actually, happen.Taking everything into account, including the level of awards we make, I think Admirals 
payment of £300 compensation to Mr F is fair for the extra distress and inconvenience 
he experienced over a few hours. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require Admiral 
to do or pay anything more.
Overall, although I recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling, I dont see a compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman