DRN-3188505
The complaint
Mr J complains about the actions of Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank when he 
was tricked into transferring money as a result of a scam.
 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In February 2021 Mr J was sadly the victim 
of a scam. He was tricked, by a scammer, into believing he was sending money to a 
Payment Protection Insurance company. On 1 February 2021 he sent £324 and then a 
further £350 on 4 February 2021. The next day Mr J realised he had been scammed and 
contacted Clydesdale. 
Clydesdale contacted the two banks Mr J sent the money to, but it wasnt able to retrieve 
any of the funds. Mr J was unhappy with this and the service he received from Clydesdale, 
so he made a complaint. His complaint was reviewed but Clydesdale said it didnt think it did 
anything wrong in allowing Mr J to make the transactions and that it had tried to get his 
money returned by the two receiving banks. Clydesdale did offer £75 compensation for the 
service it had provided when Mr J raised the matter. 
Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He added that 
Clydesdale didnt do enough to stop the transactions or recover his funds and shouldve 
provided better service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think 
Clydesdale shouldve done more to prevent these transfers to the scammers account, 
because he didnt think the transfers Mr J made were unusual or suspicious. And he was 
satisfied that Clydesdale did what it could to recover the funds when Mr J made it aware of 
the scam.
Mr J disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said the transactions were 
unusual for his account and Clydesdale didnt do enough to protect his money. He said the 
amount he lost to the scammers was nothing compared to the money Clydesdale makes and 
that the £75 offer from Clydesdale wasnt sufficient to cover his loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the same reasons. Im sorry to hear that 
Mr J has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he feels strongly about this complaint and 
this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
It is common ground that Mr J authorised the scam payments totalling £674. I accept that 
these were authorised payments even though Mr J was the victim of a scam. He provided 
valid instructions through his online banking. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay 
money to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the 
terms of his account, Mr J is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Clydesdale to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Clydesdales first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr J provides. But if those
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Clydesdale 
to intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transactions before 
processing them. Id also expect Clydesdale to provide suitable warnings about common 
scams to help their customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the 
payment. There might also be cases where its appropriate for Clydesdale to refuse to follow 
the instruction if there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or 
scam. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions by Mr J (to transfer £324 and £350 to 
the scammers) given to Clydesdale (either individually or collectively) were unusual in 
relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account statements for the six 
months prior to the scam payments being made. I think this gives a sufficient sample size to 
fairly assess the activity. The account typically maintained a balance which ranged between 
around £200 and on occasions up to around £1,000. There were direct debits/standing 
orders, transfers and bill payments ranging from £459 to £1,000. 
As a result, Im not satisfied Mr Js payments ought to have stood out to Clydesdale as 
unusual or suspicious because he commonly made similar payments. I note Mr J has 
explained that he was very careful with his money and that some of the larger payments he 
made on his account were to people taking part in a golf trip he organised. But that doesnt 
mean those transactions cant be taken into consideration when Ive reviewed his account 
activity. So, I dont think there was any reason for Clydesdale to have intervened and to have 
asked questions of Mr J.
I understand Mr J is unhappy with the way Clydesdale dealt with this issue. As a result, he 
feels Clydesdale couldve done more to retrieve his funds here.  
Clydesdale has offered £75 for the inconvenience its handling of this issue has caused. And 
I dont think Clydesdales handling led to Mr J not receiving his money back from the 
scammers. Thats because I think Clydesdale acted reasonably in its attempts to recover 
Mr Js money after it was made aware of the fraud. Its provided evidence which shows it 
attempted to retrieve Mr Js money in a reasonable timeframe the same day the fraud was 
reported. One of the receiving banks has said no money was left in the account adding that 
the funds were spent very quickly, and the other bank hasnt responded. 
Ive seen that Clydesdale have chased the receiving bank that hasnt responded but it still 
hasnt received a response. And its not unreasonable for me to think that the scammers 
withdrew the funds from this account as quickly as they did from the other account. A point 
Mr J has also made to the investigator. So, I dont think there is more Clydesdale can do 
here.
So, Im not going to ask Clydesdale to take any further action.  
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman