DRN-4105089
The complaint
Mr E complains that Coverwise Ltd didnt provide him with good customer service when he 
asked for assistance in making a travel insurance claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive set out a summary of 
what I think are the main events.
Mr E took out a travel insurance policy through Coverwise. The policy was underwritten by 
an insurer Ill call P. Mr E had a holiday booked and was due to travel in August 2022. 
Unfortunately, he was unable to travel as planned and wanted to make a cancellation claim 
on his policy. He got in touch with Coverwise to ask for help with making a claim, as he said 
he needed additional support in doing so.
Coverwise responded to Mr E with an automated email, which he didnt think answered his 
queries. So he contacted it again to ask for more support. Coverwise responded to Mr E with 
details about how he could get in touch with Ps claims handler to make a claim. 
But Mr E still experienced difficulties in contacting P and so he complained to Coverwise, as 
he felt it had provided him with a lack of support. 
Coverwise told Mr E that it wasnt the policy underwriter and so it couldnt provide claims 
handling support. It felt it had given Mr E enough information about how to get in touch with 
P and its claims handler to allow him to make a claim.
Unhappy with Coverwises decision, Mr E asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Es complaint should be upheld. She felt that Coverwise had 
provided Mr E with clear and accurate information about how to make a claim with P. She 
also didnt think it could provide claims handling support to consumers. Overall, she didnt 
think Coverwise needed to take any action.
Mr E disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He felt Coverwises 
website indicated that it would provide support to a consumer in completing a claim form. 
Coverwise had wrongly indicated it had responded to an email hed sent, but instead, it had 
sent an automated response. Coverwise had also told Mr E not to expect a response to his 
query. He felt this was at odds with information given on Coverwises website and he also 
felt that consumers should be able to expect a response to correspondence. He considered 
that hed lost the opportunity to make a claim with P and that therefore, Coverwise should 
pay him compensation to reflect this.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr E, I dont think Coverwise has treated 
him unfairly or unreasonably and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr E that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint, 
Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Within this decision though, I havent 
commented on each point hes made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues.
It's also important that I make clear Coverwises role. It is an insurance intermediary, which 
is authorised by the industry regulator to sell contracts of insurance. It isnt an underwriter 
and neither is it authorised to administer claims on an underwriters behalf. Mr Es policy was 
underwritten by P and so it was only P (or an agent which the underwriter had authorised) 
which could handle claims. Coverwise simply had no authority to provide claims handling 
support or to assist Mr E in making a claim. So I dont find it acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when it told Mr E that this wasnt something it was able to do for him. Instead, P or its claims 
handling agent may potentially have been able to provide Mr E with the support hed asked 
for. But I do need to go on to consider whether Coverwise gave Mr E enough clear 
information about what next steps hed need to take to allow him to try and make a claim.
And based on all Ive seen; I think it did. Ive seen screenshots of Coverwises website at the 
relevant time and Ive seen the emails between Mr E and Coverwise. It appears that Mr E 
initially contacted Coverwise through the contact us section of its website. This offered two 
options: Sales and Service and (P) Claims. 
Immediately underneath the Sales and Service option, the following was set out: If you need 
help with your policy for anything other than a claim or medical emergency, please use our 
online contact forms to get in touch. A button was underneath which said: Contact us.
Underneath the Claims section, the following was set out: If youd like to make a claim on 
your travel insurance policy, please fill in and submit a (P) claims notification. A button was 
underneath which said: Make a claim.
In my view, Coverwises website clearly set out that consumers could contact it for sales and 
service, but that this wouldnt include help with making a claim or a medical emergency. I 
also think Coverwise gave consumers a clear option to choose to make a claim and I 
understand that if a consumer opted to make a claim, they were directed to P to begin the 
claims notification process. I dont find that Coverwises website was ambiguous or 
misleading as to the support it could provide. And this was in line with the regulatory 
permissions it held.
Mr E selected the contact us box us under the Sales and Service option. Mr E was provided 
with a list of drop-down choices, and Mr E chose general enquiry. He was then asked to 
choose a sub-option from a list and he selected something else. This gave Mr E the 
following information immediately underneath before Mr E could fill out his enquiry:
Please note that all Travel Insurance claims are handled by the (P) claims team.
If youd like to make a claim on your travel insurance policy, please fill in and submit a (PI) 
Travel claims notification. 
A hyperlink to Ps claims portal was included.
Again, in my view, Coverwise made it sufficiently clear during the online enquiry process that it didnt handle claims and it provided Mr E with a direction to Ps claim form. While I can 
understand why Mr E might have wanted Coverwise to have provided him with support in 
completing a claim form, this wasnt a service it could provide. Neither do I think its website 
indicated that this was a service it could offer. 
Accordingly, Mr E emailed Coverwise to ask for help. It appears that he didnt receive a 
tailored response, but he instead received an automated reply. This email suggested that 
Coverwise had already provided Mr E with information  but Coverwise accepts an email 
wasnt sent previously. However, I note that the email did say:
If your query Is claims related, please be aware that we are unable to register or discuss 
claims as we do not have access to (P)s claims information within the Coverwise sales and 
service office
All claims are managed by the (P) Travel Insurance claims team, who can be contacted in 
the following ways
The email provided a link to the claims portal included on Coverwises website. 
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr E when he received an email indicating that 
Coverwise had already provided the information hed asked for. But while I acknowledge 
Coverwise did make an error on this point, I dont think it caused Mr E to lose out. Thats 
because the email clearly and correctly stated that Coverwise couldnt register or discuss 
claims and directed Mr E to Ps claims portal. I note that the email indicated that Coverwise 
couldnt provide personal responses to all customer emails at that point in time. But I think it 
set out helpful information to assist its customers with the types of common questions they 
might have had. And its clear that Coverwise did ultimately go on to send Mr E personal 
responses to his emails too, which Ive thought about below.
Mr E responded to the automated email on 3 August 2023, requesting a personal response 
to his concerns. Coverwise responded to Mr E on 4 August 2023, again reiterating that it 
couldnt provide claims registration support, but providing Mr E with the telephone number 
for Ps claims team. And when Mr E registered his unhappiness with this response, 
Coverwise emailed Mr E on the following day, restating that it couldnt assist Mr E with 
making his claim, but providing him with further contact details for both Ps claims team and 
claims complaints team. In my view, Coverwise responded to Mr E in an appropriate and 
timely way, providing him with the contact details for the team Mr E needed to speak to in 
order to obtain assistance in making his claim. 
It seems from Mr Es correspondence that he had difficulties in contacting Ps claims team 
on its dedicated line and that it directed him to contact the claims team by email. I dont 
doubt that this was frustrating for Mr E, but I cant fairly hold Coverwise responsible for Ps 
actions on this point.
Overall, I think Coverwise treated Mr E fairly. It provided him with accurate information and 
tried to provide targeted responses to his queries, within the parameters of its regulatory 
permissions. It gave Mr E the details he needed to get in contact with P to obtain support in 
making a claim. I appreciate Mr E feels he was left with insufficient time ahead of his 
planned trip to make a cancellation claim, but I dont think I could fairly hold Coverwise 
responsible for any decision Mr E made as to whether or not to cancel his trip and when. So 
on this basis, I dont find that there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could uphold 
this complaint or direct Coverwise to take any action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman