DRN-4371678
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society are unable to add his son to his existing 
current account. 
What happened
Mr R holds a current account with Nationwide. The account was historically a joint account 
held by Mr R and his ex-wife, but she was removed as an account holder when they 
divorced some years ago.
Mr R now wants to add his son to the account. Hes explained that the process has required 
both him and his son to speak to the building society on several occasions and for his son to 
attend a branch to have his documents verified.
The application could not proceed. Nationwide explained it was unable to add Mr Rs son to 
this existing account because it had previously been held jointly with another party.
Mr R was disappointed with Nationwides position and made a complaint. He pointed out 
there had been wasted time and effort when he should have been told at the outset if the 
request wasnt possible. He also explained that both his ex-wife and his son agree to the 
proposed change and are happy to give their written authority for the application to proceed.
In its final response letter, Nationwide recognised there had been some inconvenience 
caused when trying to add Mr Rs son as an account holder and paid him £75 compensation 
to acknowledge this. But it said it remained the case that it was unable to add Mr Rs son to 
the account because it needed to safeguard the historic information of any previous 
members. It explained this was Nationwides policy and it was unable to make an exception. 
Mr R referred the complaint to us. He wanted us to advise Nationwide to change its decision 
and to let the application proceed.   
One of our Adjudicators looked into the situation, but didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He thought the £75 compensation Nationwide had paid was fair to recognise that its 
service had fallen short. He didnt agree the building society was at fault by not adding 
Mr Rs son to the account. He said Mr R should consider opening a new joint account with 
his son. 
Mr R didnt agree. He explained his ex-wife had been removed from the account at least 14 
years ago and it wasnt necessary for Nationwide to now keep information from before the 
account had been transferred into his sole name.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
My further investigation
Upon review of the complaint papers, I contacted Mr R. I agreed with him that organisations 
should not keep personal data for longer than they need it, but explained there are no set 
time limits. I said it is for Nationwide to determine how and why it should keep data. 
I said that banks and building societies have to keep some personal data for as long as the 
underlying account is open and often for a period of time after it has been closed, and that 
there are legal and operational reasons for this. 
I didnt think Nationwide was being disproportionate or that it was treating Mr R unfairly or 
unreasonably by requiring him to open a fresh account and transfer regular payments over 
to be able to meet the aim of holding a joint account with his son.
Mr R felt Nationwide should do more to act in the customers interests, especially as all 
parties requesting this change are in full agreement and willing to give written authority for it 
to happen. He said that opening a new account may be a viable option, but he didnt see 
why the onus was on the customer to change account details. He suggested that the change 
could be made without difficulty provided someone in authority gave consent for the 
amendments. He asked for me to put my reasoning for declining the complaint into a formal 
letter so he could consider his next steps, such as referring the matter to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am unable to uphold the complaint. I do appreciate this is a disappointing 
outcome for Mr R, but Ill explain my reasons why. 
Adding another person to a current account is not an unusual request, so I can appreciate 
why Mr R was expecting things to be more straightforward than needing to open an entirely 
new account. But I dont think Nationwides position that it is unable to add Mr Rs son to his 
existing account is unfair or unreasonable. 
Banks and building societies hold lots of personal data. Some of this data they have to retain 
for as long as the underlying account is open and often for a period of many years beyond 
when it is closed. Whilst Mr R has explained his ex-wife is comfortable for their son to see 
any information connected to her, for instance, should his son ever decide to make a subject 
access request, Nationwide has said that it does not permit any exceptions to its policy that it 
is unable to add a new account holder onto an existing account that has previously been 
held jointly. 
There will be situations where the parties involved are not cordial and disclosure of 
information relating to a previous account holder could cause a lot of strife and have 
negative consequences. Ultimately it is for Nationwide to decide the degree of risk it is willing 
to take and the degree of information it needs to hold, in line with its legal, regulatory and 
business requirements. I am not a regulator, and I am not able to instruct Nationwide to 
change its business practices. 
Whilst I do understand that Mr R considers Nationwides policy to be inflexible, I can't
see that it is treating him differently or less favourably than any other customer in this 
position. It follows that I cannot fairly require it to take any further action. Should Mr R wish to 
contact the ICO about Nationwides obligations under data protection legislation then he is, 
of course, free to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Rs complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman