DRN-4271667
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as E, complains that ClearBank Limited wont reimburse the 
money the company lost following an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in April 2022, a scammer persuaded a director of E to transfer funds from their 
personal account, which they had with another bank, to Es business current account with 
ClearBank. And then transfer out £25,000 from ClearBank to a third-party account with his 
bank. This was on the pretext that his bank was protecting his funds. By the time the scam 
was discovered and reported, unfortunately no money remained in the recipients account.
E complained to ClearBank that it failed to prevent the scam from happening.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld. 
They said that ClearBank correctly followed Es payment instructions. The relevant 
transactions were not particularly unusual to the normal account activity for the bank to have 
intervened. The payment was to a new payee, but this alone wouldnt have given B much 
cause for concern. There was also no interaction between the bank and E when the 
payment was made. So, it is difficult to conclude that the bank missed an opportunity here to 
help prevent the loss to E. There was a slight delay on part of the bank contacting the 
recipients bank, but this delay did not cause any loss to C. The funds had been removed 
from the recipients account even before E notified ClearBank of the scam.
E did not agree. Their representative said that even though there have been a couple of 
previous large payments out of the account, the average value of the transactions out of Es 
account was about £3,000. So, a payment of £25,000 should have warranted further checks 
from the bank before being released and had those checks been carried out, the scam could 
have been uncovered and the loss prevented.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator, broadly for the same reasons. 
As I understand it, the money transferred into Es account has been accounted as a 
directors loan to the company and as such due to be paid back to them. In fact, it appears 
some amount has already been paid back the director. So, it seems that the company has 
suffered the loss due to the scam.
E, through their representative, have provided detailed submissions to support their 
complaint, which I have read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that they will 
not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that 
they are expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is not to 
address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching 
them.
As the Investigator has said, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. 
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for banks to take additional 
steps  as for example have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud.
I have reviewed Es account statements for a year or so prior to the payment to the 
scammer, to understand the general account activity. Over the period, I see that this was an 
active account with many incoming and outgoing transactions. It is the case that the 
payment of £25,000 was higher compared most others but occasional higher payments 
could happen on an account. For example, I see that there was a payment for about £16,000 
in October 2021, £18,000 in January 2022 and about £36,000 in March 2022 (which was 
higher than the relevant payment). Likewise, there have also been prior occasions where 
there were multiple incoming credits / transfers on the same day. The payment was to a new 
payee, but this alone wouldnt have given ClearBank much cause for concern, given the 
level of activity on the account. 
Ultimately, it is a matter for ClearBank as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an authorised push payment fraud, I will 
look into the circumstances of the case and based on what I have seen, decide whether in 
that case the bank could have fairly and reasonably done more. 
After taking all of the above into account, I cant say that the disputed payment stood out 
sufficiently from the prior account activity to reasonably have prompted ClearBank to take 
further action. Im not persuaded that there was enough here for me to find ClearBank was 
at fault in carrying out Es payment instruction in line with its primary obligation to do so.
There was some delay in ClearBank contacting the recipient bank. However, the available 
information show that the funds had already been withdrawn before E contacted ClearBank 
to inform them of the scam.  
I know this will come as a disappointment to E as they had fallen victim to a sophisticated 
scam. But I can only make an award against a bank if that bank has done something wrong, 
which has led to a loss. In this case, for the reasons given I am not persuaded that there was 
any error or omission on part of ClearBank which has resulted in Es loss. As such I cant 
fairly or reasonably ask it to refund their loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman