DRN-1808419
The complaint
Miss P complains that Skipton Building Society misled her, resulting in her missing out on a 
Lifetime Individual Savings Account ('LISA') before she reached the upper age limit for this 
type of account.
Miss P is being represented - all references to 'Miss P' will include information and 
documents provided by her representative.
What happened
In mid-July 2017, three days before her 40th birthday, Miss P applied for a LISA with 
Skipton. She received an email on the same day of her application telling her the account 
had been opened and attaching the terms and conditions along with other documents.
Under the LISA rules set by HMRC, Miss P needed to open the account and add funds to it 
before her 40th birthday. Whilst Miss P opened the LISA before her 40th birthday, she only 
added funds to it on 8 August 2017, which was nearly three weeks after she turned 40. In 
February 2018, as the account hadn't met the HMRC criteria, Skipton notified Miss P that the 
account had been closed. Its letter was returned as "undeliverable", so Skipton tried other 
means to contact Miss P. When this was unsuccessful, Skipton reopened the account so 
that her funds could be held until such time as it was able to contact her.
In March 2019, Miss P contacted Skipton about the account explaining that she'd moved 
address. Skipton subsequently arranged for the account to be closed in April 2019 and all 
Miss P's funds were repaid to her, along with the interest that had accrued. When Miss P 
realised she hadnt qualified for the LISA she complained to Skipton. She said Skiptons 
email telling her that the account was open, led her to believe shed nothing further to do. 
Skipton didn't uphold Miss P's complaint. It said it wasn't able to register the LISA with 
HMRC because Miss P had turned 40 before a payment was made into the account. It said 
the criteria for the LISA was set out in its terms and conditions, which were made 
available during the online account opening process and sent to Miss P in an email on the 
same day she opened the account. Unhappy with Skipton's response, Miss P brought her 
complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. In summary, she thought Skipton had made it 
clear through its terms and conditions, that funds needed to be paid into the account before 
Miss P's 40th birthday. And as Miss P hadnt done so, she didn't think Skipton had acted 
unfairly in closing the account.
Miss P disagreed with the adjudicator's findings and asked for an ombudsman's decision on 
the matter. In summary, she said:
Skiptons "lie" about the account being open, made her believe that she'd done all 
she needed to do in order to secure a LISA - she says the contradiction to this "lie" 
was contained in its "small print," which she says Skipton shouldn't be able to rely on 
given it'd told her the account was open;She had strong mitigating factors for not paying as much attention to the small print 
as shed normally do - her life was very busy and difficult particularly due to the ill-
health of her father who subsequently passed away;
Other emails she received from Skipton after her 40th birthday gave her a false 
sense that the account had been opened correctly;
Skipton, knowing her birthday was within a few days of opening the account, 
shouldve done more to draw her attention to the need to deposit funds into the 
account before she turned 40.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I'm not upholding 
the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, I understand that Miss P has raised several 
points about her complaint with Skipton and this service. Although I may not mention 
every point she's raised, Ive considered everything Miss P has said but limited my findings 
to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case.  I also want to offer Miss P my 
sincere condolences for the loss of her father.
By way of background, a LISA is a special sort of savings account. It allows people to save 
either for buying their first home or for retirement, attracting government bonuses throughout 
the year. There are detailed rules about this type of account set by HMRC. One of these 
rules, as outlined on a government website, is that investors must be over the age of 18 but 
under 40 when they apply to open and make their first payment into a LISA. There are 
limited circumstances where you can open a LISA after the age of 40. For example, if you 
are transferring from another LISA you can open a new account to do this. 
In Miss Ps case, as this was her first LISA, she needed to open and pay money into the 
account before her 40th birthday. Miss P did open the account with Skipton before her 40th 
birthday, but she didn't pay money into the account until after she turned 40 - this is why 
Skipton said she didn't meet the criteria set by HMRC.
Miss P says that if Skipton hadnt misled her into believing the account was open, she 
wouldve added funds to the LISA before it was too late to do so. I understand where Miss P 
is coming from, but I think Skipton were correct to say the account had been opened, as this 
had happened. This is why it needed to take action to close the account when it realised 
Miss P hadn't fulfilled all the criteria set by HMRC - in this case, she hadn't paid money into 
the account before her 40th birthday. So I can't fairly say that Skipton did mislead Miss P by 
saying the account was open. But Ill still need to consider whether the requirement to pay 
money into the account before the age of 40, was made clear to Miss P.
Skipton has given our service a copy of its LISA terms and conditions. This explained how 
the account works and was made available to Miss P at the start of the online application 
process. Miss P acknowledges she was also provided with this document in an email sent by 
Skipton on the same day of the account opening. I can see that at paragraph 2.2 of the 
terms and conditions it says: "If youre applying and are approaching your 40th birthday, 
please make sure you pay into the account before you turn 40 to ensure you dont miss 
qualifying for your Lifetime ISA."  
Skipton's "Lifetime ISA Customer Acknowledgement" document, which was also attached to 
the email sent to Miss P on the day she opened the account, said "...we recommend keeping 
a balance in your account because if you close your Lifetime ISA after the age of 40, you 
won't be able to open a new one." A similar point is made on the first page of the key facts document. All in all I think Skipton did make it reasonably clear to Miss P that she needed to 
add funds to the account before her 40th birthday to meet HMRC's criteria.
Miss P says it's simply not good enough for Skipton to rely on its "small print" given it told her 
the account was open. But these terms and conditions and the other documents sent to her, 
are an important part of the account opening process. And I think these would've highlighted 
to Miss P at an early stage what she needed to do to qualify for a LISA. Miss P makes the 
point that Skipton should've let her know she needed to do more, particularly as the account 
was opened only a few days before her 40th birthday. But I think it was reasonable for 
Skipton to proceed in the belief Miss P had read the terms and conditions and that as a 
result, she was aware of what would happen if she didn't comply with them.
Miss P says Skipton continued to send her emails after her 40th birthday which she says 
gave her the impression everything had been done correctly. For example, around three 
weeks after her 40th birthday Skipton sent her a notification about how she could cancel the 
LISA if she changed her mind. But as noted above, there are limited circumstances where 
someone might qualify for a LISA after the age of 40. So I dont think Skipton were wrong to 
continue with its processes even after Miss P reached the LISA upper age limit. And I don't 
this meant it couldn't take steps to close the account when the relevant conditions hadn't 
been met.
I understand that Miss P was going through a difficult and busy time in her life. Her father 
was extremely ill and sadly passed away at the end of 2017. So I appreciate, as she says, 
there were strong mitigating factors which mayve contributed to her paying less attention to 
the terms and conditions. But Skipton doesn't set the rules for this type of ISA, thats done by 
HMRC. In this case, Skipton administers the account in line with those rules. So my decision 
has focused on whether Skipton made those rules clear enough to Miss P. And from what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied it did give clear and easy to access to information about what Miss P 
had to do to qualify for a LISA.
So for the reasons Ive set out above, whilst I appreciate Miss P will be disappointed with this 
outcome, I'm not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
I'm not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman