DRN-3600229
The complaint
Mrs U and the estate of Mr U complain that Elderbridge Limited lost their title deeds, which 
caused them distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr and Mrs U took out a secured loan, which was later transferred to Elderbridge. Their 
account was settled in February 2020, but they didnt receive confirmation or their title 
deeds, so they went on to complain.
In February 2021, Elderbridge responded to Mr and Mrs Us complaint. It explained the title 
deeds had been misplaced, but its solicitors would begin the process of producing a copy. 
Elderbridge noted it couldnt confirm timescales, but it would keep Mr and Mrs U updated. 
Elderbridge also offered them £75 compensation for the poor service they had received 
since asking for their title deeds to be returned.
In July 2021, Mr and Mrs U referred their complaint to our service having still not received 
replacement title deeds. Elderbridge set out the process its solicitors needed to follow in 
order to resolve the issue, estimating a timescale of 6-8 months. Elderbridge offered to 
increase the compensation to £500.
In November 2021, Elderbridge clarified the title deeds couldnt be reconstituted, but rather, 
its solicitors were applying to complete first registration with the Land Registry.
Our investigator put Elderbridges £500 compensation offer to Mr and Mrs U, and explained 
the process its solicitors needed to follow. In January 2022, Mrs U noted Elderbridge hadnt 
provided any updates since February 2021 and the property was still no nearer to being 
registered with the Land Registry in their names. She explained the matter was causing 
distress, particularly as Mr U was experiencing health issues. She also noted she was 
having to chase Elderbridges solicitors for updates. 
In March 2022, Mr U sadly passed away.
In May 2022, the application was submitted to the Land Registry. In June 2022, Elderbridge 
confirmed the Land Registry had now granted title absolute. 
Our investigator thought £500 compensation was fair. However, Mrs U disagreed. Mrs U 
noted the situation had caused significant upset and distress, and Mr U had died without 
knowing the house was financially secure. Mrs U asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator told Mrs U she had only considered up to the date of Elderbridges updated 
offer, in July 2021. However, I dont consider it would be helpful to either party to limit my 
findings to that date. As such, Ive considered events between February 2020 (when the 
account was settled) and June 2022 (when the Land Registry granted title absolute).
Elderbridge explained it couldnt reconstitute the title deeds as the schedule of deeds were 
also lost. However, Elderbridge noted that title absolute is the strongest form of property 
ownership title, and now the property is registered theres no need for title deeds. Mrs U 
hasnt disputed that the issue created by the lost title deeds is now resolved.
Therefore, what I need to decide here, is whether £500 is fair compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by Elderbridge losing the title deeds. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mrs U, but whilst Im upholding this complaint, overall, I consider £500 to be fair.
I dont doubt that this matter has been upsetting, particularly given Mr Us health issues and 
passing. Im sorry to hear of Mrs Us recent loss. Ive also seen it caused a great deal of 
inconvenience, in respect of Mr and Mrs U having to chase, complete paperwork and 
provide information.
However, in July 2021, Elderbridge set out the steps it was taking to put matters right, and 
whilst the timeframe went beyond the estimated 6-8 months, I havent seen there was any 
doubt about the Land Registry application succeeding. I also havent seen anything that 
suggests Mr and Mrs U had lost out because they were intending to sell their property 
during the period in question. 
Mrs U has noted their title deeds have been lost forever and shell never get them back. But 
even if I were to accept the title deeds had sentimental value, I would still consider £500 
compensation to be a fair reflection of the impact on Mr and Mrs U.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Elderbridge Limited should pay Mrs U and the estate of Mr U £500 
compensation, in total (if £75 has already been paid, a further £425 would be due).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U and the 
estate of Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman