DRN-3021686
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that The Cop-operative Bank Plc declined his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In October 2015 Mr J purchased an electric bike and paid £1149.00 using his Co-op credit 
card.
Mr J experienced issues with the bike a few months after purchase. These included issues 
with the gear shift, which led to the motor failing. The motor was replaced by the 
manufacturer.
Mr J also experienced issues with the power and gears not synching. This was diagnosed as 
an interface fault. The manufacturer supplied a new interface free of charge.
Mr J continued to experience issues and returned the bike to the supplier for inspection in 
May 2019. The supplier advised Mr J that a beating in the hub had caused it to fail and that it 
needed new hub. It further advised Mr J that the hub only had a two-year warranty and that 
he would therefore be liable for the repair costs of around £400.
Mr J raised a section 75 claim with Co-op. He said he didnt think the bike was fit for purpose 
because of all the issues hed experienced. In response, Co-op said it was declining the 
claim because Mr J had failed to contact the supplier until 4 years after the point of supply.
Mr J wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the fault with the hub was present at the point of supply and therefore he couldnt say 
that the bike wasnt of satisfactory quality or that there had been a breach of contract.
Mr J didnt agree. He felt that there had been a defect with the hub from the outset and that it 
wasnt discovered as soon as it should have been because of the other issues with the bike.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier or 
the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Mr Js complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Co-ops response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply.  If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Ive looked at the available evidence. The hub fault was diagnosed around 3  years after 
the point of supply. By this time, the bike had covered around 1,300 miles. Under the 
relevant legislation, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months theres a presumption that it 
was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to the business to put 
tings right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
I can see from the information provided by Mr J that he experienced issues with the motor in 
he first few months. Based on what Ive seen, both the motor and the interface were 
replaced at no cost to Mr J. So, whilst it could be said that the bike wasnt of satisfactory 
quality because of these faults, the faults have now been successfully repaired.
Ive thought about whether the fault with the hub could be related to the previous faults 
and/or repairs. But the supplier has stated that the fault with the hub is a separate, unrelated 
fault.
Ive also considered whether the fault with the hub couldve been present or developing at 
the point of supply but had been hidden due to the other issues. Theres no evidence to 
suggest that a fault with the hub was found when the previous repairs were undertaken. I 
can see that the hub failed at a point when the bike had covered around 1300 miles. I dont 
think Mr J would have been able to cover this distance if the fault with the hub had been 
present or developing at the point of supply. It seems more likely that the fault was caused 
by general wear and tear.
Without clear expert engineering evidence that the fault with the hub was an inherent defect, 
Im unable to say that the bike wasnt of satisfactory quality. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
theres been a breach of contract.
Looking at everything, I dont think Co-ops decision to decline the section 75 claim was 
unreasonable or unfair. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman