DRN-1782158
The complaint
Mrs F complains about delays by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc in dealing with her 
subsidence claim. 
Mrs F is represented in her claim and complaint by Mr F.
All references to RSA include that of its agents.
  
What happened
Mrs F made a claim for subsidence on an investment property. Her tenants had moved out 
and Mrs F intended to sell the property as soon as repairs were completed.
RSA accepted the claim and sent out an assessor. The assessor said that trees and bushes 
needed to be removed before repairs could be completed. It was also explained the ground 
needed to settle in between which could take around three to four months. 
Mr F had questions about exactly how long it maybe before repairs could be started and he 
also wanted to know if any guarantees would be provided for the repairs undertaken. Mr F 
didnt get prompt answers to these queries. There was also a further delay in a schedule of 
works being approved as one room in the house was missed off. Mr F complained to RSA 
about these issues and he was also unhappy he hadnt been kept updated on what was 
happening.  Mr F pointed out the delay in the repairs being completed meant they were 
incurring additional mortgage costs and bills on the investment property which they wouldnt 
otherwise need to, if the property could be sold. 
RSA said it didnt offer guarantees on work under the insurance policy, it explained 
contractors usually offer warranties themselves.  It did agree it hadnt responded promptly to 
Mr Fs emails but pointed out they were received in the ground recovery period and as such 
the claim wasnt delayed because of this.  It said items being missed from the schedule of 
work did delay the claim slightly and Mr F should have been kept updated on what was 
happening. It offered to pay Mrs F £100 compensation. 
Mr F was unhappy with RSAs response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. While she agreed with 
RSA about its position on providing a warranty for the works undertaken, she did think the 
amount of compensation should be increased to £200 to reflect the trouble and upset Mrs F 
had been caused. The investigator explained she wouldnt be asking RSA to cover the 
additional costs Mrs F incurred on the investment property as these were costs that would 
have been incurred in any event while the property was in her ownership.
Mr F asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.  He said the compensation awarded 
didnt adequately compensate for the time and stress RSA had caused, regardless of the 
costs of running the investment property. He also mentioned that he thought the amount was 
insignificant and wouldnt encourage RSA to make any improvements.
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that delays had occurred previously in this claim which have been dealt 
with under a separate reference at this service. This decision focusses on what happened 
after the date of the last complaint response 17 October 2018, to the date RSA responded to 
this complaint on 24 May 2019. 
I understand Mr F originally had concerns RSAs lack of warranty could potentially mean 
substandard work would be completed.  The works have since taken place and Mr F has 
said he was happy with the contractors, so this issue seems to have been resolved now. 
However, for the sake of completeness Ill provide my thoughts on this matter. 
The policy Mrs F has doesnt mention contractors need to provide guarantee for the works 
they undertake, although in practice many do. In this case the contractor provided a three-
year warranty. We would normally expect should there be any problems with repairs the 
matter is referred back to an insurer to remedy. RSA explained to Mr F that should damage 
reoccur at the same site, due to the same cause, within five years it could send someone to 
reassess the damage and determine a way forward.  I understand this was of particular 
concern to Mr F due to their intention to sell the property after the repairs were completed, 
but I dont think RSA said anything wrong here in what it explained to him. 
RSA has accepted there was a delay in the correct schedule of works being produced. 
Initially this was due to the fact the correct information wasnt logged on the system about all 
the damage that needed to be put right. However, it then appears there was confusion 
between the contractor and RSA about the submission of the updated schedule of works.  
Having reviewed the evidence available to me I can see RSA didnt receive the correct 
updated schedule until the end of April 2019. This did therefore delay the works moving 
forward by approximately two and a half months.  Having reviewed the rest of the timeline 
Im satisfied this was the main cause of delay. 
Although there was a delay to the work starting, I dont think RSA need to cover the 
additional costs Mrs F incurred for the investment property for those months. I say this 
because, these were costs she would have incurred in any event through her ownership of 
the property. While it was her intention to sell the property, it doesnt appear steps had been 
taken towards that or were their buyers lined up, so I cant say for certain the delays in the 
completion of the work meant Mrs F lost out financially as a result. 
RSA has agreed it didnt respond to Mr F in a timely manner, so I dont have to make a 
finding on this. However, there was mention that part of the reason for this was because 
Mr Fs emails werent directed to the case handler but sent to a generic address.  From 
looking at the evidence before me I can see that although each of the case handlers emails 
mentioned queries should be directed to them, they only provided a direct phone number. 
The emails themselves came from a generic address. There were only two emails from the 
case handlers direct address. So in this instance, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr F 
to use the generic email address when contacting RSA.  For completeness, my thoughts are 
the delays were due to the time it took for the emails to be assigned to the correct person 
and then for that person to respond to Mr F. 
Its clear Mr F doesnt think the amount of compensation recommended by the investigator 
adequately reflects the trouble and upset Mrs F was put to. Hes mentioned it should be 
sufficient to deter RSA from behaving negligently in the future. Mr F has misunderstood our 
role here as we are not permitted to punish businesses or award aggravated damages. Our 
role is not to award compensation as a means of deterring businesses from unacceptable conduct, but to reach a fair assessment of the trouble and upset suffered by a consumer and 
put forward compensation that we consider to be a fair reflection of the circumstances.
In reaching a decision about fair compensation for Mrs F I have considered all of the 
evidence before me including the information Mr F has provided about the impact the matter 
has had on her.  Overall, I think the award of £200 recommended by the investigator is fair in 
Mrs Fs circumstances. 
Putting things right
RSA should pay Mrs F a total of £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Fs complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and direct it to pay 
Mrs F a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman