DRN-4267077
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society suspended and then closed his account 
with it. He complains too that it has not returned funds held in the account and that it has 
logged information with CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service. 
Mr A has been represented by lawyers, and so where I refer to his arguments and 
submissions, I include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr A owns and runs a business which Ill call W. At the relevant time W held at least two 
bank accounts through other providers.
On 31 March 2022 Mr A received a payment of US$799,950 (equivalent to just under 
£600,000) to his account with Nationwide. The payment came from a US company, G. His 
account statements indicate that Mr A made two cash transfers totalling £68,000 to 
individuals over the following few days, but otherwise continued to use the account for day-
to-day spending.
On or about 21 April 2022, however, Nationwide blocked the account. It said it had received 
a fraud claim in respect of the payment on 31 March 2022. At that point, the account balance 
was nearly £530,000; all but a small sum, apparently in respect of a payment made 
immediately before closure, was returned, ultimately to the source of the 31 March payment. 
I note that Nationwides response to Mr As claim says that the account was suspended on 
11 April, but I believe that is an error; the account remained active for 10 days after that. 
Mr A complained to Nationwide. He said that the payment had been a legitimate one and 
that, if the funds had been fraudulently paid, he was not involved and had not been aware of 
that. He referred the matter to this service. 
In the course of our consideration of this complaint, Mr A has provided, amongst other 
things:
invoices addressed to G, the sender of the funds, by W, and which he says show that 
the payment (and others) were for work carried out for G; 
an affidavit from an individual connected to G; and 
court papers filed in respect of proceedings in Texas for the forfeiture of more than 
US$12million obtained by fraud.    
Ill discuss those documents later, but the investigator who considered Mr As complaint was 
not minded to uphold it. He thought Nationwide had acted fairly in suspending the account 
and then closing it and in returning the funds held to its credit. He did not recommend that 
the CIFAS marker be removed. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For context, I should say that Ws accounts with other providers were also suspended and 
closed. They are the subject of separate complaints, which I wont discuss here. Where 
relevant to Mr As complaint, however, I have considered documents submitted by or on 
behalf of W. 
I should mention too that it is not for me to say whether Mr A was involved in any type of 
fraud. What I must do is to decide what, in my opinion, is a fair and reasonable resolution to 
his complaint. 
The allegations which led to the suspension and closure of Mr As account are set out in the 
court papers. In summary, it is alleged that a US company made two payments, totalling 
more than $12million, as a result of a business email compromise (or BEC) scam. A BEC 
scam occurs when fraudsters spoof or intercept the email account of someone who is 
making a payment and provide different payment details. The intended recipients of the 
payments from the US company did not receive them. 
Around $5million of the US$12million was paid to two individuals and of that US$2.4million 
was then credited to the account of a US law firm, which Ill call L. It was then transferred to 
G, and G made the payment to Mr A. 
The maker of the affidavit in which these allegations are made is a US Special Agent, and 
they appear to be based on information provided by investigators within the various banks 
within the chain of payments. The agent acknowledges that the account holders through 
which the funds passed may be money mules  which I take to mean individuals or 
businesses whose accounts have been used without their knowledge or who knew about the 
payments but did not appreciate the reasons why their accounts were being used. 
In my view, the court papers are more likely than not to be an accurate record of the source 
of the funds paid to Mr A.  
The affidavit sworn by the individual linked to G confirms that G received the funds from L. 
He says that the funds were of clean origin and verified by L. He sent them to Mr A for the 
development of software in three separate payments.     
The three invoices were all in the name of W and were all addressed to G. Two indicated 
that payment should be made to Ws business accounts, but one directed payment to be 
made to Mr As personal account with Nationwide. All are dated 28 March 2022.
As I have indicated, I think it very likely that the ultimate source of the funds which Mr A 
received was the BEC scam. He has provided a copy of Gs US bank statement, showing 
the only credit as a transfer of US$2.4million from L. Thats consistent with the statements in 
the court papers.
That does not mean of course that Mr A knew about the BEC scam or that he stood to profit 
from it. There are however a number of features which I think support Nationwides decisions 
here. 
The three invoices to which I have referred totalled nearly $2.4million, all of the funds 
received by G from L. That represents a substantial contract for a company of the size of W 
and which, Mr A says, had just come out of dormancy. The invoices however refer simply to Software / Application Development and Sale. I would expect to see very much more to 
show, for example, what services were provided and over what period, as well as a detailed 
written set of terms and conditions. 
It is also not clear to me why payments were made to three separate accounts, one of them 
a personal account. None of this is dealt with in Mr As evidence or in the affidavit from Gs 
officer.     
It is notable too that the affidavit does not seek to explain why G received US$2.4million into 
what appears to have been an otherwise unused bank account from a firm of lawyers. 
Indeed, that affidavit does little more than state facts about the transfers  which are in any 
event verifiable from other sources. 
As I have said, its not for me to decide whether or to what extent Mr A was involved in or 
knew about the original BEC scam. I do note however that he does not appear to have tried 
to move most of the funds out of his account. That might be an indication that he did not in 
fact have a full understanding of what was happening. That said, I dont find his subsequent 
explanations of the reasons for the payment at all persuasive. 
For these reasons, I think that Nationwide acted reasonably in suspending the account and 
then closing it, returning the funds and placing a CIFAS marker against Mr As name.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint and do not 
require Nationwide Building Society to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman