DRN-1884914
The complaint
Mr L is complaining Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt settled a claim he made on his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr L contacted Ageas to claim on his car insurance policy for an accident 
hed been involved in with a third party in August 2019. He said he initially tried to claim on 
the third partys insurance policy but he hadnt accepted the total loss offer.
Ageas responded to Mr L to say it wasnt willing to settle his claim as it had concerns over 
the circumstances of the claim as it didnt think his car had been damaged as he described. 
Mr L complained to this service about Ageass decision. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint as he said hed seen the information Ageas had relied upon and he didnt think it 
was unreasonable it had declined the claim.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint.
I should first state that its not this services role to handle a consumers claim or not or to 
say whether the accident happened as described. My role in this case is to assess whether 
Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably in this matter.
Ageas has concerns about the circumstances of the claim. I can see the third partys insurer 
highlighted concerns it had with the accident. It also seems Mr L has been inconsistent with 
his version of events  particularly in respect to the purpose of his journey. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas to have concerns 
about this claim. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to decide to not settle Mr Ls 
claim in the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr L has also expressed concern that Ageas cancelled his insurance policy. But this issue is 
being considered separately so I havent commented on it in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman