DRN-3395292
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
What happened
 Mr and Mrs P bought a trial membership in March 2008 from a business (Business A) for 
£3,795. While Mr and Mrs P initially took out a loan on 1 April 2008 with GE Money to pay for 
part of this, they later cancelled this loan within the cooling off period and funded this 
separately.
Mr and Mrs P bought a points-based membership of a holiday club in August 2008 for 
£15,982. In addition to trading in their existing trial membership, they paid for this in part 
from a loan with GE Money. The loan was in joint names set to run for 10 years  this was 
re-paid early, and the notes of Mr and Mrs Ps representative suggest this was in September 
2008. The proceeds of the loan werent paid to Business A, but to a different business, 
Business B.
Mr and Mrs P say that when they took out the timeshare in August 2008 they were told:
By becoming a full member theyd be upgrading to silver membership which provided 
exclusive membership and up to five holidays a year.
Theyd be able to book what we wanted, where we wanted, and when we wanted 
including availability during the school holidays.
They could leave the points to their children.
The maintenance fees were small.
So, Mr and Mrs P say that Business A misrepresented the product to them at the time of 
sale. Theyve said they had problems with availability and that non-members could book the 
same holidays without membership fees. They also found the standard of accommodation 
lower than promised. Mr and Mrs P say that had they known what Business A said wasnt 
right, they would not have taken out the membership in the first place.
Mr and Mrs P have also said they were subjected to hours of presentations, pressurised 
sales tactics, and that a proper affordability assessment wasnt undertaken. They raised a 
claim under s.75 and s.140A of the CCA. 
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs P, using a representative, complained to GE Money. It responded 
to say it didnt have any information on its systems about Mr and Mrs Ps loans due to the 
time that had passed. And that based on the information provided the April 2008 loan was 
cancelled and so it wouldnt be able to look into any concerns about their trial membership. 
GE Money said in relation to the August 2008 loan, that as the account was closed more 
than 6 years ago, any information about the loan would have been destroyed. And as the 
sale took place many years before the complaint, GE Money said that meant the complaint 
had been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA). It also noted that the loan proceeds had been paid to Business B and not Business A, 
so it didnt think there were the right types of agreements in place for the CCA to apply to 
this complaint. GE Money then went on to say it would have assessed their creditworthiness 
at the time. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed as the first loan had been cancelled during the cooling off 
period GE Money didnt need to consider a claim under the CCA in the circumstances. And 
they thought that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA in relation to the second loan had 
been brought too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of 
the claim.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative responded to explain why they thought the time limits should 
be extended under s.32 LA. They said Mr and Mrs P didnt know they had an actionable 
claim until they sought legal advice in 2016. And that Business A had concealed two points  
that perpetual contracts were illegal under Spanish law and that Mr and Mrs P could have 
exited their membership at any point with 28 days notice. So the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs P, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
As the April 2008 loan was cancelled within the cooling off period, I agree GE Money would 
not have needed to do more to investigate the claims under CCA. I havent seen evidence 
this loan was ever drawn down and this purchase appears to have been funded using credit 
with a separate provider. Mr and Mrs P have not said why they think they can make a claim 
with GE Money under CCA in the circumstances. So Ive focused the rest of my decision on 
the August 2008 sale / loan.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs P to make a claim under the 
CCA?Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. The same agreement is needed for the timeshare contract to be considered 
under s.140A CCA. GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement in this case, 
as the supplier of the timeshare was Business A, but the loan proceeds went to a different 
business, Business B, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Ps 
claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of 
the service (Business A) and the business that took the payment (Business B). But Ive not 
gone on to make a finding on that point because even if I did think there were the right 
relationships in place for the claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence under the 
LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs P say that Business A misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement with them, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But 
if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it 
would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it 
clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs P may have to bring these 
claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im 
considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Ps 
claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs P brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs P had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ps case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
August 2008. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of Business A. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was then that they suffered a loss, as they 
took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in August 2008, so Mr and Mrs P 
had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about their 
claim until April 2018 which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think GE 
Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. 
There is some reference to this loan being settled in September 2008 and I find it more likely 
than not that this loan was settled early given GE Money no longer has a record of it. As with 
an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, Mr and Mrs P would have to 
bring an action within six years of September 2008. As they didnt do that, I think they 
brought their claim too late.
Mr and Mrs Ps arguments on limitation
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P may say they didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to 
above in the LA, but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the 
limitation period. Mr and Mrs Ps representatives have made several arguments about why 
they dont think our adjudicator is correct about limitation. I will deal with each in term.
I have been asked to consider s.32 LA, which states that in cases of fraud, concealment or 
mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, 
concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). 
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives say that the perpetual nature of the membership is illegal 
under Spanish law. However, they havent pointed to any part of the contract that was 
governed by Spanish law. I also havent seen any evidence that this information was 
concealed as it would have been publicly available.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives have also referenced that they didnt know they could exit 
the membership with notice  however they havent explained how they think this applies to 
their claim that Business A misrepresented the nature and benefits of the timeshare. Based 
on what Ive seen so far, I cant see that there was any fraud, concealment or mistake.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs P are able to rely on s.32 LA here. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that Ive seen nothing to show 
that Business A was acting as agent to Mr and Mrs P. I cant see that its role was to make an 
impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and 
Mrs P may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I 
can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs P might have against the 
supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it 
is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded that 
GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Unaffordable lending
Mr and Mrs P say it was irresponsible of GE Money to provide this loan and proper credit 
checks were not carried out. I cant see that Mr and Mrs P has provided much by way of 
further evidence about this in response to the view. But, even if I were to find GE Money 
didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, Id still need to be satisfied that the 
lending was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs P and they lost out as a result in order to uphold 
this part of his complaint.I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs P had any affordability issues during 
the life of this loan. Theres nothing to suggest that they struggled to meet the loan 
repayments - for example - or otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time. So I 
dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman