DRN-3705679
The complaint
Ms R complains that an appointed representative business of HL Partnership Limited 
(HLPL) miscommunicated with her when arranging personal protection cover alongside 
mortgage lending. This meant she did not have critical illness cover in place when she then 
needed to make a claim. To resolve her complaint, Ms R wants her lost claim to be settled.  
What happened
Ms R is represented by Mr H, her uncle, for the purposes of pursuing this complaint. 
Ms R and her partner Ms C were seeking a new mortgage. Ms R then spoke with Morgan 
Financial Solutions Ltd (MFSL) - an appointed representative of HLPL - about taking out 
new protection policies to cover the borrowing. This comprised life, critical illness and 
income protection cover with the life cover matching the mortgage and critical illness benefit 
at a lower level sum of £30,000. A quote was provided, an application made on 24 October 
2020 and cover set up to begin on 26 February 2021  the day Ms R and Ms C were set to 
move house.  
Ms C was recommended separate cover and also agreed for her policy to begin on the same 
day as Ms Rs. The adviser issued a suitability letter to Ms R and Ms C explaining his 
recommendations on 3 November 2020.  
On 25 February 2021, an administrator from MFSL emailed Ms R noting that she believed 
Ms Cs separate life cover policy had expired; she discovered this when calling the insurer to 
ask about the cover going on risk the following day. An email exchange ensued, discussing 
both the possibility of new separate cover or decreasing term joint cover to include Ms C. Ms 
C therefore spoke with MFSL, and it quoted for joint cover with a different insurer.  
On 28 February 2021, Ms R was hospitalised and in mid-March 2021 she was sadly 
diagnosed with a type of cancer. Ms C told MFSL that Ms R was in hospital on 5 March 
2021. Ms C asked for the Ms Rs cover to be put in place, backdated to 26 January, and 
MFSL arranged this with the insurer. Further joint cover was also set up with a new insurer. 
However, Ms R then came to make a claim on the policy and the insurer refused it. It 
explained that Ms R had an ongoing duty of disclosure, and her health had declined from 
February 2021 onwards. It would have postponed cover until her medical investigations were 
complete. A further claim to the new provider was also refused. 
Ms R therefore complained. HLPL rejected the complaint on 13 September 2021. It 
explained MFSL had made an error regarding Ms Cs policy, noting it had expired in the 
email of 25 February 2021  when it had not. But, Ms R was clear she wanted to consider 
other options including joint, cheaper cover and it had been entirely her decision not to start 
her policies. It also noted that she could not have had a claim paid in any event with the 
quoted cover or the new joint cover. 
Ms R did not accept the outcome. She made further written comments via Mr H, noting in 
summary that:
HLPL hadnt properly considered her complaint points;
she had questioned the reasonableness of contacting her one day before a house 
move;
but for the intervention of that employee on 25 February, financial loss would not 
have been suffered;
the consequence of postponing cover was never pointed out to Ms R;
MFSL did not tell her to retain her existing cover right away;
in fact, Ms R was encouraged to cancel her cover;
the various staff members at MFSL that set up the cover were irresponsible and 
lacked the expertise to understand the implications of their errors.  
Mr H assisted Ms R in bringing the complaint to this service, where it was considered by one 
of our investigators. She agreed that MFSL should not have contacted Ms R on 25 February 
2021 about Ms Cs policies, which led to discussions about cheaper, joint cover. But, Ms R 
could not have claimed under the cover she had applied for in October 2020 either because 
the insurer would have postponed its decision and ultimately refused to insure her. So, she 
did not believe HLPL was liable for any lost claim now.  
Though no additional submissions were made, Mr H explained that Ms R wanted the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. HLPL made no further comments either.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Ms Rs diagnosis and send her, Ms C and Mr H my best wishes. 
Though I realise my decision will be disappointing, Im not able to uphold this complaint.
In summary, my findings are:
I believe that the actions of MFSLs administrator on 25 February 2021 unnecessarily 
confused matters for Ms R and Ms C;
it appeared to the administrator that Ms Cs cover needed requoting because her 
policy applications had expired  when that was not the case;
the adviser that Ms R and Ms C met in July and October 2020 had since left MFSL;
and he had confirmed Ms Cs cover to go on risk with the insurer in January 2021;
on that basis, an email discussion was had with Ms R about her and Ms Cs options  
including taking out joint cover;
though that email chain did include Ms R giving instruction not to place her own 
policies (due to begin the following day) on risk, that decision arose because of the 
intervention of MFSL;
that having been said, Ms R was told that she could retain her cover and seek new 
joint cover with Ms C rather than cancel her policies; 
and the email from MFSL of 5 March 2021 explained Ms Rs policy was put in place 
and not to cancel it until the other policy began;
I appreciate the intention of the administrator was to provide cover for the best 
possible cost for Ms R and Ms C;
she had noted that their cover was set up on level terms rather than decreasing 
terms matching the capital repayment borrowing  and this was correct;
therefore, they could have taken out cover that had lower premiums;
furthermore, Ms C had also cancelled her policies already;Ms Rs cover still went ahead and while the insurer backdated it, the official start date 
was 5 March 2021;
the new joint cover (based on the disclosures from October 2020) came into force 
later that month;
however, by 5 March 2021, Ms C had told MFSL about Ms Rs recent hospital 
admission;
I do not agree with MFSLs conclusion that Ms C misled it about Ms R falling unwell;
it is clear the cover was required for the mortgage, but the misadministration of the 
start dates led to the general confusion for Ms R and Ms C;
but, I cannot conclude that HLPL is now liable for MFSL having caused Ms R the loss 
of the right to claim under her cover now;
that is because the insurer reviewed Ms Rs medical history as if the policy went on 
risk on 26 February 2021 (two days before Ms R attended hospital), rather than 5 
March 2021;
and in that circumstance it still would have voided Ms Rs policy and refused the 
claim;
this is because when the application was made, Mr R (via MFSLs adviser) was told 
if there has been a change to any of the answers given to the questions in the 
application or any other information provided between the date the answers or 
information were provided and the date we assume risk on the plan and your client 
doesn't tell us, it could mean we'll not pay a claim; 
Ms R had answered no to two questions about pain which though these may have 
been correct in October 2020, were not accurate by 8 February 2021;
by this time shed seen a GP regarding pain which led to her later hospital admission;
if the insurer had known that, it would have postponed and ultimately declined cover 
as it did with the policy that began on 5 March 2021;
so, the intervention of MFSLs administrator did not cause the loss of the right to 
claim now;
despite my sympathy for Ms R, Ms C and their family, I cannot uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman