DRN-4222659
The complaint
Company C is unhappy Tide Platform Ltd closed its business account.
Company C is being represented in this complaint by Mr C, a director of Company C.
What happened
In late February 2023 Tide explained to Mr C that it was carrying out a review of Company 
Cs account. During this process Tide asked Mr C for more details about the day-to-day 
activities of Company C and documents to support its recent business activities. 
In late March 2023 Mr C provided Tide with the information it required, and upon review Tide 
informed Mr C that it would not be able to provide an account for Company C any longer. 
Tide provided 60 days for Mr C to transfer funds and make other arrangements before the 
account closed. 
Mr C raised concerns about the account closure, explaining that Company C had been a 
customer for a few years and there had never been any issues with the account. Tide 
explained that it had acted in line with the account terms and conditions and that it didnt 
need to provide a more detailed explanation to Mr C. 
Dissatisfied with Tides handling of the matter, Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Mr 
C explained that Tide had failed to provide a clear explanation about the account closure, 
and he would like the account to remain open. An Investigator reviewed the complaint and 
found that Tide had acted reasonably in the circumstances and didnt recommend Tide keep 
the account open.
Mr C remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that Tide closed Company Cs account in line with the relevant terms 
and conditions and I dont think it needs to do anything further. Ill explain why in more detail. 
The starting point for the closure, are the account terms and conditions. Tides terms dont 
say they have to give a reason when they decide to close an account. Just as if a consumer 
wants to close their bank account and move elsewhere, they dont have to provide the bank 
with a reason. In general banks can make the commercial decision that they no longer want 
to provide banking services for any reason they see fit. It also doesnt have to be one 
specific reason  it could be due to multiple issues or considerations. 
In this case Tide havent given Mr C a specific reason for the account closure. Ultimately, 
Tide is under no obligation to give any further details. I understand Mr Cs frustration, as he 
says Company C has been a customer for years and there has never been any previous 
issues with the account. As part of my review, I have asked Tide to share its rationale behind 
the closure. Although I am unable to share this with Mr C, I can assure him that the closure 
is reasonable and based on Tides overall risk appetite. I cant see anything within the 
rationale which persuades me Tide has acted unfairly towards Company C. 
I can also see the closure was carried out after further details were gathered from Mr C and 
considered by the review team. Mr C was also given 60 days to make alternative 
arrangements. Mr C says the closure means he will incur a significant additional tax liability. 
Mr C has been given adequate time to seek the relevant advice about what to do with funds 
within the account, and I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Tide liable for any 
additional costs he may incur. 
I know this will not be the outcome Mr C was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont be 
asking Tide to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman