DRN-1773794
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the interest Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) 
applied to her account after her Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) period ended.
What happened
Mrs L has an online shopping account with Very and has a credit limit of £3,000. She 
opened this account in 2016 and it allows her to make purchases online and pay for them 
over time.
In April 2018, Mrs L made a purchase and chose to take out a 12 month BNPL agreement. 
She made a further purchase around six months later and applied for a six month BNPL 
agreement.
Mrs Ls BNPL period ended on 13 May 2019. This meant she had to repay the total cost of 
the goods by this date to avoid any interest being charged. Mrs L paid some of the cost 
before this date but was on holiday just before the cut off date. She paid the remaining cost 
on 14 May 2019 and was charged the interest of over £350. Mrs L complained about this as 
she felt Very applied too much interest. She explained she paid the balance only one day 
later, and shed made payments towards the BNPL agreement before the end date. So, the 
interest shouldve been far lower. Mrs L also complained that the interest rate on her account 
had increased.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. He explained that the BNPL terms said a 
lump sum of interest would be applied if the total cost of the goods hadnt been repaid by 13 
May 2019. And he felt Mrs L was made aware of this when she took out the agreement, as 
well as being reminded in her monthly statements. The investigator also felt that the interest 
rate had been increased in line with Verys terms and conditions, and that it had sent a 
notice of this to Mrs L.
Mrs L disagreed with our investigators view. She has queried the terms and conditions 
which say that interest would be recalculated if she makes payments towards her BNPL 
agreement during the period. As she has done that, she doesnt believe Very has acted 
correctly in applying so much interest. She has asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Interest applied on the BNPL agreement
Mrs L is aware that some interest would be charged on her items if she didnt repay the full 
amount by 13 May 2019. Ive considered whether the interest applied was correct and 
whether Mrs L was made aware how much it could be.When Mrs L selected the BNPL option to pay for her goods she was shown various 
information about how interest is calculated and how to avoid paying interest. Specifically, it 
says:
Interest is calculated daily from date of order, compounded every 28 days and added to 
your account as a lump sum at the end of the delayed payment period. This means you will 
pay interest on interest.
Making partial payments without clearing the cash price in full will reduce the lump sum of 
compound interest charged at the end of the delayed period.
Remember if you choose not to pay the cash price before the end of the delayed 
payment period, any outstanding balance plus a lump sum of compound interest will 
be charged to your Very account.
What this means is throughout the life of the agreement, interest is calculated daily and 
applied every 28 days  but this isnt charged to Mrs Ls account until the end of the BNPL 
agreement. So, every month that the cost of the goods is outstanding, the interest accruing 
in the background will continue to get higher. But if payments are made to the BNPL 
agreement, the interest calculated going forward will reduce. This is because the compound 
interest being calculated daily and applied every 28 days, will be based on a lower balance 
after those repayments have been credited.
Mrs L wouldve also seen the following statement when she confirmed she wanted the goods 
on a BNPL agreement:
All interest is avoided if you pay in full before the end of the delayed payment period. If you 
dont, a lump sum of interest will be added to your account.
So, I think Very made Mrs L aware that she would have interest applied in a lump sum if she 
didnt repay the cost of the goods by 13 May 2019. And this is what has happened. I can see 
in Mrs Ls statement dated 20 April 2019 she was told:
Pay the Total Outstanding Cash Price of £497.14 by 13 May 2019 to avoid the interest, 
estimated at £359.99.
Very have told Mrs L, in this statement, that the interest accrued up to that point is around 
£359. After this statement, Mrs L made two payments of £100 towards her balance. This 
reduced the amount she owed, and it would then affect any additional interest calculated. 
But this doesnt mean that the interest already accrued up to that date would change. As the 
agreement says  interest is calculated daily and applied every 28 days. As Mrs L didnt 
make these payments until near the end of the BNPL period, the estimated interest wouldnt 
change too much. This is because most of the interest had already accrued over the BNPL 
period. And I can see that the lump sum she was charged was around the same amount she 
was told in her statement.
Mrs L cleared her balance on 14 May 2019, one day after the BNPL period ended as she 
arrived back from her holiday on 13 May 2019. But the interest applied wasnt calculated 
from the end of the BNPL period. It had already been calculated over the term of the 
agreement. Mrs L has also told us that she didnt pay the full balance before going on 
holiday as she wanted to ensure she had enough for her trip. This is understandable but its 
also a choice that Mrs L made. I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Very to extend the 
BNPL period for this reason. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong in applying the 
lump sum of interest that accrued over the whole BNPL period. And Ive not seen anything to 
show that this interest didnt take into account the payments that Mrs L made to her account.Interest rate
Mrs L has also complained that the interest rate applied to her Very account increased 
without her being told. I can see that a Notice of Variation was sent to Mrs L about this 
interest rate change and it has also been shown in her statements since this date. So, when 
Mrs L has purchased additional goods on her account since December 2017, the interest 
rate that has been applied is 49.9% APR. The notice also gave Mrs L the option of repaying 
her account and closing it if she wasnt happy with the change in interest rate. Ive not seen 
anything which shows Mrs L wasnt made aware of the increase in the rate. And I think Very 
has applied this variation in line with its terms.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman