DRN-2542730
The complaint
Miss M has complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
  
What happened
Miss M was given two loans by TFS in 2017 and 2018.
Loan 1 in June 2017 was for £5,000 repayable over 36 months in monthly 
instalments of around £242. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, 
including interest, was just over £8,712.
Loan 2 in October 2018 was for £5,000 repayable over 24 months in monthly 
instalments of around £290. The total amount payable, if the loan ran to term, 
including interest, was just over £6,964. I understand this loan was a further advance 
on Loan 1 and that Miss M used £3,854 to settle her first loan with £1,145 in cash.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. The adjudicator didnt think TFS should 
have provided Miss M with the loans and she asked TFS to put things right. TFS didnt agree 
with the adjudicators assessment. So the complaint has passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ms complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did TFS make a fair lending decision each time? 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss M irresponsibly. 
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so TFS had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss M. 
TFS had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M would 
be able repay her loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks that TFS had to do, but 
it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of the loan 
term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
TFS was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
TFS carried out some checks before it gave the first loan to Miss M which included asking 
for details of her income and expenditure. It also reviewed payslips and acquired a credit 
check and asked to see three months bank statements. From what Ive seen, I think TFSs 
checks were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.  However, taking things as 
a whole I dont think it made a fair lending decision on this occasion and Ill explain why.
Miss Ms credit file showed 2 CCJs from 2016 and a number of defaulted accounts. I accept 
that a lender may have considered these to be historical, but I think TFS would have been 
aware that Miss M had previously experienced difficulties repaying credit. It also seems that 
TFS was aware that Miss M was repaying an outstanding utility bill from a previous property 
as this was noted on its monthly income and expenditure form.
When TFS calculated that Miss Ms net monthly income it included around £971 of ad hoc 
income from child-minding. TFS says Miss M confirmed she received this as extra income 
and TFS thinks it should be able to rely on what it says Miss M said at the time. Miss M says 
that she was never a child minder and that these ad hoc payments into her account were 
from her partner for other reasons.  Ive thought carefully about this, but it seems to me that 
whatever the reason that Miss M had received some extra income, it was only on a very informal and ad hoc basis and there doesnt appear to have been any contractual 
arrangement, even part-time. TFS had estimated that this extra income accounted for 
around 28% of Miss Ms regular monthly income. But this was an expensive loan and Miss M 
had to maintain her monthly repayments for an extended three-year period. TFS appears to 
have calculated that Miss M would on average receive nearly £1,000 extra income, every 
month for the next three years. I think TFS ought reasonably to have realised that at best 
this form of additional income was likely to fluctuate and in the absence of any evidence of a 
contractual arrangement, there was a very real risk that this was not a sustainable source of 
income for Miss M over the three-year term of the loan. And this could materially affect her 
ability to repay her loan sustainably.
Ive thought carefully about the summary of information that TFS gathered at the time. On 
balance, I think TFS ought reasonably to have realised that Miss M would most likely 
struggle to repay her loan sustainably over the three-year term. It seems that TFS was 
aware that a significant portion of Miss Ms income was, at best, only ad hoc and informal; 
and she was continuing to repay outstanding bills and defaulted accounts. TFS might have 
calculated that on the face of it, this still left Miss M with sufficient disposable income to 
repay her loan. But it had to ensure that she could do so sustainably, without borrowing 
further. Taking Miss Ms circumstances as a whole, I think TFS ought reasonably to have 
realised that Miss M would most likely be unable to repay the loan sustainably and so it 
ought reasonably to have declined to lend to her.
TFS carried out further checks when Miss M took a further loan in October 2018. TFS says 
Miss M settled the first loan and took the remainder as cash. From what Ive seen, Miss Ms 
financial position had not improved. Despite repaying one unsecured loan, Miss M had taken 
another, a few months earlier. TFS was also aware that Miss Ms credit file showed a new 
CCJ had been entered and further missed payments and credit defaults incurred in the 
period in between taking her first loan from TFS and applying for further lending. TFS says 
that Miss M blamed her partner for these problems, but the debts were in Miss Ms name 
and it seems to me that TFS would have been aware that Miss M was continuing to 
experience considerable difficulties repaying credit. 
I think the checks that TFS carried out at the time ought to have suggested to the lender that 
this consumer was still having financial problems. TFS has focussed on whether the second 
loan was affordable for Miss M on a pounds and pence basis, based on its analysis of her 
income and expenditure. And I appreciate that it says it took into account what Miss M said 
about her financial position. But this was again an expensive loan, repayable over an 
extended period of time. Miss M was returning to take a second loan, with higher monthly 
repayments and there was evidence that she was already struggling to repay debt. As Ive 
already explained, the lender was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably 
make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
I think overall TFS should reasonably have realised that Miss M was continuing to have 
difficulties managing her finances. And it seems likely she would need to borrow elsewhere 
to repay her second loan from TFS. In the circumstances I think TFS ought reasonably to 
have realised that it was unlikely that Miss M wouldve been able to sustainably repay her 
second loan over the full loan term. So it should reasonably have concluded that it was not 
appropriate to provide her with further lending.
On balance, I dont think TFS should have provided Miss M with either loan. So, I am 
upholding her complaint.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss M in some other way. But taking everything into account, I dont think TFS should have agreed to provide the loans to Miss M. So TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss M to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she paid interest and charges on loans that 
shouldnt have been provided to her.
TFS should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on both loans and treat all the payments 
Miss M made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Miss Ms loan account results in her having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*. 
If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then TFS needs to treat Miss M sympathetically and fairly, which might include 
coming to a new arrangement about how best to repay this.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the 
loans, once any outstanding capital has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman