DRN-4119057
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Marsh Ltd mis-sold them a business insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W run a wedding venue. They held business insurance sold and arranged for 
them by Marsh Ltd for a number of years. In 2020, Mr and Mrs W contacted the insurer to 
make a claim under the policy for losses they incurred as a result of the Governments 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The insurer refused Mr and Mrs Ws claim, as it said 
that while it provided some cover for business interruption losses, it excluded any losses 
arising out of the closure or restriction of use of their premises by the local authority (which 
the insurer said would include the Government) in response to an infectious disease. The 
insurer also said it provided cover for the occurrence of certain specified diseases at the 
premises but these did not include Covid-19.  
Mr and Mrs W were very unhappy with this and said the policy had been mis-sold to it, as it 
did not provide appropriate cover. Mr and Mrs W say the policy they had prior to renewal in 
April 2016 had more extensive cover for diseases and would have provided cover for the 
claim. 
Marsh Ltd says it had a meeting with Mr and Mrs W in April 2016 to discuss their insurance 
needs and the policy it sold them was appropriate for their needs. Marsh Ltd says the 
majority of business insurance policies did not provide cover for the effects of the Covid-19 
pandemic, which could not have been foreseen when the policy was first sold in 2016, or 
when it was later renewed. Marsh Ltd says there is no record of any query from Mr and Mrs 
W at any point about the disease cover. 
Marsh Ltd also says that at the time of the claim, the previous insurer didnt think its policy 
covered these claims anyway, and it was only after the courts considered the FCA business 
interruption test case that it was decided it did provided cover.  
Mr and Mrs W have made a number of submissions in support of their complaint. I have 
considered everything it has said but have summarised its main points below:
they run a venue for hire specialising in weddings, so are always exposed to the risk 
of events being cancelled.
With only a few days to go before renewal in 2016, Marsh Ltd advised them to move 
from their previous insurer to the new insurer. 
Business interruption cover was very important to them and they had specifically 
asked for business interruption cover to be increased to just over £2m and so Marsh 
Ltd should have explained the reduction in the scope of cover, or offered an option to 
avoid the reduction in disease cover.  
Marsh Ltds failure to do so was in breach of the Insurance Conduct of Business 
rules.
The arrangement with the new insurer was a longer term arrangement and this  
created a higher level of duty to treat them fairly and ensure the insurance met all 
their requirements. 
They believe March Ltd received higher commission from the new insurer and that is 
why they advised them to change.  
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He obtained copies of the commission 
statements from Marsh Ltd, which show that it received lower commission from the new 
insurer than it would have received from the previous insurer and one other insurer that it 
explored cover with. Having considered this and the other information, the Investigator did 
not recommend that the complaint be upheld, as he was satisfied that the policy had not 
been mis-sold. The Investigator did not consider it likely that disease cover was important to 
Mr and Mrs W at the time this policy was taken out and they had not asked for disease 
cover. Overall, he thought the Marsh Ltd had provided suitable advice and a policy that met 
their needs.
Mr and Mrs W do not accept the Investigators assessment. They say that the main issue is 
that Marsh Ltd did not adequately disclose the change in disease cover when recommending 
the policy to them in 2016. They had not requested a change of insurer and they would have 
stayed with the previous insurer, if March Ltd had not advised them to change. They were 
only told the cover was like-for-like and the new policy was a better fit for their needs. 
Insurance is designed to provide for unforeseen circumstances and so while they might not 
have anticipated the Covid-19 pandemic, the insurance industry should have done. So it 
should not have been for them to ask for adequate disease cover. They asked for increased 
business interruption cover but without explanation were given reduced cover.
  
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr and Mrs Ws business. However, I am not going to uphold their complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that those selling insurance have a 
responsibility to provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the cover being 
provided, in order to put the customer in a position where they can make an informed choice 
about the insurance they are buying. This includes providing clear information about the 
main cover and any significant terms. The more significant, unusual or onerous a policy term 
the greater the effort to bring it to the customers attention should be, so that a customer can 
understand easily how the policy will work in practice. If the seller is also making a 
recommendation or advising a customer to take a particular policy, then they should specify 
the customers demands and needs and propose a policy thats consistent with them and 
take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice.
There is no dispute that this was an advised sale. I also do not think there is any dispute that 
the previous insurance probably would have met the claim, as it was one of the policy 
wordings considered by the courts in the FCA test case. (The previous policy provided cover 
for Mr and Mrs Ws inability to use their premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority following an occurrence of a notifiable human disease.) Although as Marsh Ltd has said, at the time of the claim the insurer did not think it would provide cover for Covid-19 
related claims. 
Marsh Ltd discussed the insurance needs with Mr and Mrs W in April 2016 and I have 
considered the report it produced as a result of that discussion. The report shows Marsh Ltd 
approached several insurers but only three had provided quotes. The policy recommended 
to Mr and Mrs W provided cover for various events that might befall a business such as 
theirs, including property damage and business interruption. The premium for the 
recommended policy was less than with the previous insurer but was not the cheapest quote 
provided. 
Mr and Mrs W said they thought that Marsh Ltd recommended the particular policy, as they 
would have received more commission. Marsh Ltd has provided details of the commission it 
would have received from the previous insurer, one of the other insurers and the insurer of 
the policy it recommended. While I cannot set out the details of the commission, I am 
satisfied that Marsh Ltd earned less commission with the new insurer than it would have 
done if Mr and Mrs W has renewed with the previous insurer. It was also less than the other 
insurer would have paid. I am satisfied the evidence is that Marsh Ltd proposed the policy it 
did because it thought it met Mr and Mrs W needs. 
Mr and Mrs W say that business interruption cover was particularly important to them and 
they asked to increase the level of business interruption cover. I can see they did ask to 
increase the level of cover for business interruption, so that it provided cover for a higher 
amount. But I cant see that they asked for, or gave, any information that would mean that 
disease cover was particularly important to them. In any case, there was some disease 
cover with the new policy, the insurer said that it just didnt cover the particular 
circumstances of their claim. 
As stated above, any significant, unusual or onerous policy terms should be highlighted to a 
customer at the point of sale but we do not expect every policy term to be specifically 
highlighted. It might be enough for standard terms to be set out clearly in the policy 
documentation. I do not consider the extensions to the core business interruption cover that 
are relevant to Mr and Mrs Ws potential claim (in this policy referred to as prevention of 
access and specified disease) to have been so significant, unusual or onerous at the time, 
as to mean they needed to be highlighted to Mr and Mrs W at the time of this sale in 2016. 
Most insurance policies didnt provide cover for the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and 
many didnt provide any disease cover or any prevention of access cover; those that did had 
various terms. The business interruption terms of the policy provided to Mr and Mrs W were 
not unusual or onerous and while the significance of this part of the policy increased in 2020, 
I do not consider that at the time this policy was taken out this would have been significant in 
Mr and Mrs Ws minds. 
The policy documentation was sent to Mr and Mrs W and the cover was sufficiently clearly 
set out in that in my opinion. 
In addition, given that I do not think that potential cover for pandemics or disease outbreaks 
would have been in Mr and Mrs Ws minds in 2016, I also am not convinced that even if the 
difference in this part of the these policies had been pointed out to them in 2016, that it 
would have meant theyd have refused to take the policy recommended to them and chosen 
to stay with their previous insurer. In light of recent events, they may consider they would 
have done but I am not persuaded that it was likely to have been something that concerned 
them in 2016. Mr and Mrs W have also said that even though they might not have been aware of the risk of 
pandemics at that time, the insurance industry should have been (given the previous SARS 
outbreaks for instance) and Marsh Ltd were meant to provide them with cover for unforeseen 
events. I am not persuaded that it is reasonable to expect a broker to find a policy that would 
provided cover for every eventuality.  
Overall, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Marsh Ltd sold Mr and Mrs W a policy 
that wasnt consistent with their demands and needs at the time and I dont believe that it did 
anything wrong in recommending the policy it did.
I understand Mr and Mrs W are frustrated to find that the policy didnt provide cover for 
Covid-19 losses but I think Marsh Ltd proposed a policy that was consistent with their 
demands and needs and provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I think 
it also took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice, so it follows that I dont 
think Marsh Ltd mis-sold this policy.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman