DRN-4064399
The complaint
Mr B, a sole trader, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont honour a contract to 
provide his business with free banking.
What happened
Mr B explains that following complaints about the operation of his limited company account 
in 2002, Barclays agreed to provide free banking forever. This arrangement has continued 
with his now sole trader business, and he has provided letters about this. He says he has 
had to call on occasion when Barclays said that it will be going to charge him. And that each 
time until now the previous agreement has been kept to.
Barclays said that in a letter dated 4 December 2007 Mr B had been told indefinitely we 
wont charge you a penny on everyday services such as paying in cash or cheques, making 
payments and even bank statements. If said that an indefinite arrangement wasnt one that 
could never be changed. And a letter from a branch dated 4 October 2002 to his company 
had apologised for an error but hadnt offered free banking forever. Barclays said it had sent 
Mr B a letter in April 2022 stating that his period of free banking would end in July 2022 and 
from then he would be charged. Barclays accepted that he had been provided with incorrect 
information during past calls and so believed he had free banking for life. It offered to pay 
him £50 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays take any other action. She noted the 
evidence that the tariff had been reviewed at intervals, but shed not seen notes that this was 
to continue forever. This wasnt a normal term wed see. She noted a letter dated 16 January 
2020 explaining that the tariff would be reviewed on 14 July 2022 and wasnt free entirely 
as elements of banking came with a fee. She was satisfied that with notice the tariff 
arrangements could be changed. Free banking had been given for about 20 years and she 
wasnt in a position to reinstate what Mr B said had been compensation for past errors. The 
compensation for any misunderstanding that the arrangement would continue was 
reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that in 2002 he 
accepted an offer of free banking forever as a verbal contract. That had been provided from 
2002 to 2022. He wasnt seeking new compensation but to ensure that the verbal agreement 
regarding compensation for a mistake isnt broken. Whether or not that had been appropriate 
for that mistake isnt the issue: this is what had been agreed. Hed been told that Barclays 
systems couldnt extend the arrangement for more than two years at a time. And hed made 
a series of phone calls about this. It was disappointing that Barclays could only provide two 
of these when it encouraged customers to use the phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr B that Im not looking at the circumstances of any prior complaint that he 
made to Barclays and whether the resolution for that was reasonable. The issue I am looking 
at is whether Mr B had as he says an agreement with Barclays for free banking forever. As 
has been set out any such verbal agreement was with a different legal entity at the outset, 
and I am looking at Mr Bs sole trader business.
So, the evidence I have about that is that in 2007 he was told that his sole trader business 
could have elements of banking services without charge indefinitely. And I dont doubt 
based on the information Ive seen that this was because of what happened with the 
company account. I can see that this was reviewed on 8 April 2015 and the then Barclays 
manager involved wrote to Mr B to say that I can confirm that the previous agreed action to 
allow indefinite free banking will stand and continue on your Business account. A letter of 9 
April 2015 stated that the account was on the Business Free Money Transmissions (FMT) 
tariff and that Barclays would write to him two months before it ended to let him know the 
options. This was reviewed in July 2017 and the tariff continued and it stated would be 
reviewed in January 2020.  And on 16 January 2020 it was continued to 14 July 2022. On 19 
April 2022 Barclays wrote and said that a new tariff was going to be applied from 14 July 
2022 and following a pre notification the first charge was applied on 6 September 2022.
Ive listened to a call Mr B had with Barclays in April 2022 and he was given the impression 
that hed received a generic letter and that his arrangement would continue. He was given a 
reference number to quote in case of future query.
My assessment
I dont consider that Mr B was other than told in the past that his free banking would 
continue. Clearly as time went on and he was able to transfer the arrangement to his sole 
trading business his impression was that was effectively forever. And I think its right that the 
verbal communication about this could have been clearer and he was misled in April 2022 
about what would be happening later that year.
However, I dont see he wasnt fairly also subject to the terms of conditions of his account 
which allowed Barclays to change product details with notice or withdraw an account as for 
example its letter of 2015 stated. I do think that the term that Barclays used about the 
arrangement as indefinite is a material distinction to the term forever. 
I think that the intention to change this arrangement in 2022 had been given and that the 
compensation of £50 is reasonable to reflect the mis information about the charges. I 
consider Barclays has the legitimate commercial discretion to set charges and fees and I 
wont be requiring it to apply free banking to his account now. I can appreciate that this will 
be a disappointment for Mr B. If he doesnt accept my assessment he is free to pursue this 
matter in court and subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC pay Mr B £50 as it has 
offered to do.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman