DRN-2876699
The complaint
Mr P says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about nine instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr P between January 
2012 and June 2020. Mr Ps lending history is as follows:
Loan 
numberDate Taken Date Repaid Monthly 
instalmentsAmount Highest 
monthly 
repayment
1 19/01/2012 23/03/2012 1 £300 £325.00
2 09/06/2017 22/12/2017 6 £300 £112.00
3 06/01/2018 31/08/2018 6 £300 £110.00
4 08/09/2018 13/11/2018 5 £300 £123.36
5 17/11/2018 27/02/2019 3 £200 £137.06
6 20/04/2019 27/09/2019 3 £200 £132.36
7 03/10/2019 25/10/2019 5 £400 £167.36
8 01/11/2019 22/05/2020 6 £600 £229.60
9 13/06/2020 25/08/2020 3 £200 £132.26
The gap between loan one and two is about five years. I think this is significant and so I think 
Mr Lender could reasonably think that Mr Ps finances had improved in this time. And so I 
think loan two can be taken as the start of a new chain of borrowing. The loans didnt overlap 
so Mr P was only making one repayment each month. From what I can see, Mr P repaid all 
his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ps complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr Lender asked Mr P for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr P said his monthly income was between £1,250 and £1,400. His reported 
monthly outgoings for loans two to nine ranged between £800 and £1,130. For loan one, Mr 
Lenders credit check didnt show anything untoward that should have prompted further 
checks. 
For loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time and his history with Mr Lender, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr P provided or the information Mr 
Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr P was saying. 
I think Mr Lenders checks went far enough for loans one to three. These looked affordable 
for Mr P. And so I cant say it was wrong for Mr Lender to have provided them. 
But, as our adjudicator explained, by loan four there were signs that Mr P was struggling to 
repay some of his previous loans from Mr Lender: 
Mr P deferred loan two once and loan three twice. 
Mr P had twice borrowed again shortly after repaying his previous loan and the 
amount he borrowed hadnt decreased. So I think there was a significant risk Mr P wouldve been unable to sustainably meet his 
monthly repayments for this loan  and any subsequent loans.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
five. I say this because:
From loan five onwards Mr P was provided with a new loan within weeks of settling a 
previous one. Mr P had deferred his previous three loans four times. So Mr Lender ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr P was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ps 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. By loan five, I 
can see that Mr P had been borrowing continuously for 17 months. Loan nine was taken 
out three years after the first in this chain. And the amount had stayed about the same. 
Mr P had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr P lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im also upholding the complaint about loans five to nine and I think Mr Lender should put 
things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr P from loan four, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
To put things right for Mr P, I require Lending Stream to do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans four to nine;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan four from Mr Ps credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan five onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans five to nine should be removed 
from Mr Ps credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ps complaint. I 
require PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman