DRN-2658491
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about a flexible mortgage ISA they held with ReAssure Limited. They 
are unhappy that they were not made aware of a significant decrease in its value prior to the 
maturity date.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ks ISA was due to mature on 18 March 2020. ReAssure wrote to them on 10 
February 2020 and gave the value of their ISA as around £59,000. They also explained that 
Mr and Mrs K needed to choose if they wanted to cash in the ISA, keep it invested or a 
combination of both options. 
Mr and Mrs K replied and told ReAssure that they wanted to cash in the ISA. ReAssure 
followed their instructions and cashed in the ISA on 18 March. However the value of the ISA 
had fallen to around £40,000. Mr and Mrs K then complained to ReAssure as they thought 
they should have been made aware of the fall in value before the investment was cashed in.
ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint as they didnt think they had done anything wrong. 
They said that the letter they sent Mr and Mrs K in February 2020 had confirmed that the 
value of the investment wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept ReAssures findings and brought the complaint to this service 
where it was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint as he thought ReAssure hadnt done anything wrong. He said, in summary:
ReAssures letter had stated that the final value of the investment would depend on 
the value of the units on the maturity date 
The value Mr and Mrs K were given was as at the time of writing and not a guarantee 
of what it would be on the encashment date
The subsequent change in value was caused by market conditions brought upon by 
the coronavirus pandemic and ReAssure couldnt be held responsible for that
It wasnt ReAssures responsibility to keep investors updated with all changes in the 
market
The value of the investment could have been checked prior to maturity by Mr and Mrs 
K 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with his findings. They said that ReAssure had a duty to review 
the investment and contact them because of the large drop in the value. They felt they 
should have been given the opportunity to leave the ISA invested until it reached a value 
which was enough to pay off their mortgage. 
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ks disappointment with receiving a maturity value that was
significantly lower than the value in the letter they received in February 2020. But that said, I 
dont think that ReAssure acted incorrectly in their administration of the bond and its 
maturity. 
The information Mr and Mrs K were sent about the imminent maturity made it clear that the 
final value could differ from the value quoted in the letter. The letter said The final value will 
depend on the units held and the unit prices on that date. Unit prices can change daily and 
the amount you receive may be higher or lower. We will not know the final value until the first 
working day after your life cover ends.
So, the fact that the final value was lower when calculated at the point of encashment does 
not mean that ReAssure have treated Mr and Mrs K unfairly  it is simply a result of the 
market conditions prevailing at that moment in time. 
Mr and Mrs K have said that ReAssure should have contacted them because of the fall in 
value but I dont think there was any responsibility on ReAssure to do so. They werent 
required to and it wouldnt be normal industry practice to do so, regardless of how large the 
change might be. Their obligation was to provide Mr and Mrs K with the maturity options and 
then follow the instructions they received from Mr and Mrs K. From what Ive seen, this is 
what they did so I cant say that theyve acted unfairly.
Ultimately there was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs K would have received the figure they 
were quoted in February 2020. Therefore I am unable to fairly ask ReAssure to make up the 
shortfall.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman