DRN-3759255
The complaint
Mr D complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) unfairly terminated 
his finance agreement and repossessed his car.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the events which give rise to this complaint in some detail in his 
view letter. As such, I will only set out a brief summary of the events in this decision. In 
February 2019 Mr D acquired a car funded by a hire purchase agreement repayable over a 
49 month period with monthly payments of £197.40. Mr D missed payments in February 
2021, June 2021 and December 2021. 
VFS issued numerous letters, sent him some 20 text messages and made a number of calls 
and received a limited response. It also sent him five notices of sums in arrears and in March 
2022 it terminated the agreement. This caused Mr D to contact VFS and let it know that he 
had lost his flat and his job due to Covid. He also explained that he had some mental health 
issues which meant he hadnt engaged with VFS before. He asked if he could have a 
payment arrangement but VFS explained that as the agreement had been terminated it was 
too late for that.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr D didnt agree and asked why he could 
not be allowed to maintain the agreement and pay off his arrears in instalments. He also said 
he had been offered an instalment plan in the summer but this had been withdrawn. Our 
investigator said that the withdrawal of a repayment plan had not been a part of Mr Ds 
complaint and so VFS should be allowed to consider that separately. Mr D said he had 
discussed the withdrawal of a repayment plan with someone from VFS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr D, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point raised by Mr D or VFS, its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued guidance to firms in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). Section 7.3.2 says, When dealing with customers in default or in 
arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard to its obligations to treat its customers fairly.
Section 7.3.4 says, A firm must treat customers in default or arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. Section 7.3.6 says, Where a customer is in default or 
in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow the customer a reasonable time and opportunity to 
pay the debt.
In the light of the above I have to consider if VFS has done anything wrong in its handling of 
Mr Ds account. I recognise he has faced a number of challenges in recent years and finds 
himself in a difficult situation. I also recognise that he is seeking to clear his debts and he 
has my admiration for the resolve he has shown. 
However, I cannot safely conclude that VFS has done anything wrong. It was operating with 
little or no information from Mr D about his circumstances. It made more than reasonable 
effort to make contact and to engage with Mr D and it cannot be faulted for that. It used 
multiple forms of contact, from letters, notices, texts and phone calls. It has submitted copies 
of the letters and notices sent to Mr D and these come to 69 pages. That also indicates a 
degree of forbearance.
It also showed a significant degree of restraint. The first arrears arose in February and it was 
over a year before it terminated the agreement. The passage of time and the numerous 
efforts it made to contact Mr D failed to generate response. It was only when the agreement 
was terminated was it notified of Mr Ds situation. Once that point had been reached it was 
too late to revive the agreement.
As for the offer to accept payment by instalments I can see from VFSs notes that in May 
2022 it discussed settling the outstanding sum due after termination. It said that it was 
possible that he could clear this debt by instalments. That does not mean the agreement can 
be revived or that he can retain the car. Rather it means that he may be able clear his debt 
over a period of time.
I gather Mr D is working with a debt charity and I would recommend he talks to them about 
dealing with his debts including that owed to VFS. I would remind the bank of its obligation to 
continue to deal with Mr D positively and sympathetically in helping him resolve his financial 
difficulties. However, I cannot conclude that VFS has done anything wrong and so I cannot 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman