DRN-2095545
The complaint
Mr N complains that Inchcape Retail Limited mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2010 when he took out a HP agreement to buy a car.
What happened
Mr N said he thought the PPI was part of the HP agreement  so he did not know PPI was 
an optional product.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Inchcape disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
I issued my provisional decision in July 2020 where I explained why I thought the complaint 
should not be upheld. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and invited 
them to make comments. None of the parties made any new comments or produced any 
new evidence for me to consider. So I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns case.
 
Having looked at the evidence, I am going to say Mr Ns complaint should not be upheld. I 
know this will disappoint him, so Ill explain why.
Mr N said he did not know the policy was optional as he thought it was part of the HP 
agreement. Inchcape Retail should have made Mr N aware he had a choice in buying the 
policy.
Neither Inchcape Retail nor Mr N has any of the paperwork from the time of sale. I dont 
think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 10 years ago. But it does mean I 
have limited information about the sale, so I must decide what I think is likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Inchcape Retail was only able to produce sample documents which it said Mr N would have 
seen at the time of his sale. It produced a sample of a Demands and Needs Statement. I 
can see on the demands and needs statement that the consumer has the choice of whether 
to buy PPI after the recommendations have been made. So as this choice was most likely 
offered to Mr N on his demands and needs statement, I think its more likely that he was 
probably aware the policy was an optional product  although I can understand why he may 
not be able to remember this.
Inchcape Retail recommended the PPI to Mr N, so it had to check if it was suitable for him. I 
think it probably was suitable for Mr N because he was eligible to buy it, it doesnt seem he 
was affected by the main exclusions and limitations and I havent seen any evidence that it 
wasnt affordable for him at the time of the sale.
I looked at his financial circumstances to see if the policy might have been of value to Mr N. 
He told us he would only get three months sick pay from his employer and didnt have any 
savings. So I think the PPI cover could have lasted for longer than his sick pay and would 
have covered his HP loan repayments at the time he might have needed it most. So I dont 
think his employee benefits made the policy unsuitable.
I then looked at the sample documents again to see what information had been given to Mr 
N about PPI so he could make a decision about it.
I dont know exactly what was said to Mr N about the PPI cost and benefits and the 
exclusions and limitations of the policy. And Mr N and Inchcape Retail didnt give any details 
about the conversations held that day. 
However, the sample demands and needs statement did list the various prices of various 
types of PPI policies. I dont know which type of cover Mr N chose, but we know he did 
agree to a policy which included sickness cover, as he made a successful claim on the 
policy at some point after the sale. I also noted Mr N probably wasnt affected by the main 
exclusions and limitations on the policy  particularly considering his successful claim for 
sickness cover.
 
Having already decided he probably chose to take out the PPI - it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover and  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. So I think he most likely had enough 
information about the PPI cost, benefits and the exclusions and limitations at the time of the 
sale and I think its unlikely that full detailed information would have put him off from buying 
it.
Taking everything into account, I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman