DRN-3702587
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss P holds with Topaz Finance Limited (TFL); the 
mortgage was originally taken out with a different lender, and then later transferred to TFL. 
Miss P is unhappy with the way TFL communicated with her over a temporary switch to 
interest-only.
 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss P and TFL. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with Miss P and 
TFL, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss P being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
TPLs final response set Miss Ps complaint out under four headings; these are that:
TPL deliberately disconnected a phone call;
TPL didnt give her advance notice of the new monthly payment that would apply when 
the temporary interest-only arrangement ended;
the new payment was higher than shed expected, because TPL had told it would 
resume at the same level as before; and
TPL wrongly wrote to tell her payment proposal had been rejected before a proposal had 
been made or discussed.
TPL accepted it had been at fault in respect of the second and fourth bullet point, and 
offered Miss P £250 compensation. Additionally, TPL said it couldnt confirm one way or 
another if a suspended possession order (SPO) obtained by the predecessor lender in 2014 
was still valid. When Miss P referred the complaint to us, our investigator thought TPLs 
response to the complaint was fair. 
Miss P asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions.
TPL isnt in a position to say one way or another if the 2014 SPO still has some validity. Only 
a court can decide if the SPO is valid, and that would only happen in the event TPL were to 
take Miss P to court and try to rely on the SPO to gain possession of the mortgaged 
property. 
Theres no dispute that TPL made mistakes in its communication with Miss P. Whether the 
phone call that ended suddenly was deliberate is something I cant possibly know, and wont 
speculate on. But its common ground that TPL didnt give Miss P advance warning that her 
full payment was about to resume  at a higher level than before  and it sent her a letter 
that was inappropriate to the circumstances. But in accepting TPL was at fault on both 
counts, Ive then got to consider how Miss Ps current position would be different if TPL 
hadnt made those mistakes.
Miss Ps interest-only arrangement was always going to end, because it was temporary, so 
her monthly payment was always going to increase again. Its reasonable to conclude that 
Miss P would have been expecting that to happen, even without the advance notice that TPL 
accepts it should have sent. 
I can understand if she was caught unawares when the new payment was higher than it had 
been before the concession, especially if shed been led to believe it would simply revert to 
the previous figure. But that was always going to happen, because the capital payments that 
had not been made during the concessionary period now needed to be caught up over the 
remaining term.
In summary, TPLs communication fell short of what it should have been. It didnt materially 
change Miss Ps wider financial position, but it did give her a false expectation and cause her 
unnecessary distress once the correct position was known. For that, I consider TPLs offer of 
£250 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. If the £250 offer hasnt already been paid, and Miss P now 
decides to accept it, she can contact TPL directly to do so.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman