DRN-3124411
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Allay Claims Ltd are charging her their success fee for payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claims she said she hadnt authorised them to make.
What happened
Miss L said shed been looking to see whether shed been mis-sold any PPI. She said shed 
applied online for a free PPI check, but she hadnt authorised Allay to pursue any claims for 
her. Miss L said the website shed used made no mention of Allay. 
Miss L said she was compensated for two mis-sold PPI claims. But then received an invoice 
from Allay asking her to pay their success fee. She complained to Allay.
In July 2019, Allay said Miss L had signed a letter of authority (LoA) asking them to check 
whether shed any PPI. And theyd acted in good faith in submitting this to Miss Ls lenders 
to pursue PPI claims based on the information provided to them in the initial application.  
They said theyd notified Miss L when it was found that shed been sold PPI and provided 
her with their claims service. Miss L had two successful claims with one of her lenders, Ill 
call L. They said Miss L hadnt cancelled her agreement, so their fee was justified.
Miss L wasnt happy with Allays response and reiterated she hadnt signed any documents 
with Allay. And that the signature on the LoA wasnt hers. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Miss L had authorised Allay to make a mis-sold PPI claim 
on her behalf. And as the claims were successful Allay could charge their fee.
 
Miss L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means 
were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides 
story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. 
Allay feel strongly that Miss L agreed to use their services and that it was because they 
submitted the signed LoA, her claims with L were successful. I can also understand Miss Ls 
frustration as she doesnt think shed authorised Allay to act on her behalf. 
Miss L is adamant the signature on the LoAs isnt hers. But its not our role to validate a 
signature, we arent handwriting experts, forgery would be for a criminal court to consider. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my decision on what I 
think most likely happened. 
Its not in dispute that Miss L in July 2019, made an enquiry about mis-sold PPI claims. But she 
says she didnt authorise Allay to act on her behalf and shed only agreed to a free PPI check. I 
need to determine whether its more likely than not that Miss L had or hadnt authorised Allay to 
act on her behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. 
I will also consider whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Miss L. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management 
companies, such as Allay, amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected 
high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data 
subject request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be 
used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the 
submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was 
needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim 
being auto converted. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have 
been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
So, Ive looked at what has happened. 
Allay has shown an online application was made, 10 July 2019 about mis-sold PPI for Miss L for 
several lenders including L. Specific details were provided in the application including Miss Ls 
date of birth, current and previous addresses, and contact details, email and mobile phone 
number. Some of the details in this application correlate with personal details Miss L has given to 
us. But the email address is different. 
Allay has shown the audit trail for the on-line application and the information that was 
supplied. They said that the terms and conditions had to be agreed to for the application to 
progress. And by agreeing to the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA 
populated with the personal details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be 
submitted without a signature being added. And an acknowledgement would have been sent 
on submission. From Allays records I can see they submitted the  LoA to Miss Ls lenders the 
next day  11 July 2019.
Allays terms and conditions say: 
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
And go on to say: 
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter of 
Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or Allay have received a reasonable 
offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period. 
The terms and conditions also give details of the various channels Miss L could have used to 
cancel the agreement, verbal, written or in person. 
In October 2019, I can see from Allays records that L told them Miss L had PPI. Allay 
emailed Miss L the same month to notify her that PPI had been found and to confirm her 
claim had been submitted in line with their terms and conditions. They also asked Miss L to 
complete a PPI questionnaire. The notification provided a link to the PPI questionnaire. I can 
see the email address Allay had for Miss L differs from the email address she has given to 
us. But I can also see from Allays records that they sent her a letter to the address she has 
given us, that was headed bold in red Great News. The letter gave the same information as the email, saying PPI had been found and that a claim had been submitted. It also provided 
the link to the PPI questionnaire. 
PPI being found didnt mean Miss Ls claim was successful as it needed to be considered by 
L whether the PPI had been mis-sold to her. This is why the PPI questionnaire was 
included. As I outlined above the information asked for in this questionnaire could be used to 
strengthen a claim for mis-sold PPI but this didnt mean a claim couldnt be considered 
without one. And L investigated Miss Ls claim based on the details provided in the LoA 
submitted by Allay.
So, Ive considered when the free PPI check period ended and when the 14-day cooling off 
period would have started. 
Allays terms and conditions say from the point that PPI is found they will submit Miss Ls claim to 
her lenders, and from this point the agreement moves from a free PPI check to their claims 
service. The terms and conditions show the fees that Allay charge for their claims service. And 
give examples of how much this could be if a claim is successful.
If I take Allays notification of PPI being found from the date of the letter sent to Miss Ls home 
address, 28 October 2019, Miss L would have had 14 days from this date to cancel the 
agreement without any charge.
But I havent seen any evidence that Miss L told Allay that she wanted to cancel the agreement 
or to question them as to why they were contacting her about a mis-sold PPI claim. I know Miss L 
didnt complete or return the PPI questionnaire. But L investigated her mis-sold PPI claim 
from the LoA submitted by Allay and progressed the claim without the need for the PPI 
questionnaire. And I dont think simply disengaging from the process by not completing the 
PPI questionnaire is enough for Allay to take from it that Miss L didnt want to use their 
claims service.
So, Im satisfied Miss L authorised Allay to act on her behalf to pursue her claim with L.
And by Allay submitting Miss Ls LoA before the August 2019 deadline L investigated her
claim for mis- sold PPI. 
In February and March 2020 L notified both Miss L and Allay that they agreed the PPI had 
been mis-sold and offered compensation for this. And the notification letters sent by L to 
Allay refer to Miss L as our mutual client.  Im persuaded by Ls actions that this shows 
they recognised Allay as being Miss Ls representative and that they werent solely dealing 
with her.
The agreement Miss L had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. This means
Allay charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, Allays fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Miss Ls 
claims were successful.
I know Miss L will be disappointed with my decision. But I think its more likely than not that
shed authorised Allay to act on her behalf. And she hadnt cancelled that agreement before
her claims were successful. So, I dont think Allay has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
asking her to pay their success fee.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman