DRN-4272592
The complaint
B, a company, complains about the settlement paid by American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) for their travel insurance claim. B is represented by Mr B. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under the cancellation and curtailment section of cover, the policy covers the cost of 
irrecoverable deposits and advanced payments for transport and accommodation 
costs where a trip has to be cancelled prior to departure or cut short following 
departure. Mr B went on his trip, but his final planned destination couldnt be reached 
due to bad weather. Mr B decided to continue his trip elsewhere rather than return to 
the UK early. The trip was therefore altered rather than cut short. 
So I agree with our investigator that AIG doesnt need to pay the claim under the 
cancellation and curtailment section of cover. Nonetheless, I understand that AIG has 
reimbursed Mr B for the hotel accommodation he didnt use. That was up to AIG, 
though I dont think it needed to do this.
Under the rearrangement section of cover, the policy covers the additional costs of 
travel and accommodation that are necessarily incurred to enable the insured to 
continue the trip when pre-booked travel arrangements have to be altered. Im 
satisfied AIG has done this. 
Whilst I can appreciate Mr B is disappointed that he didnt have the holiday hed planned, I 
find that AIG has dealt with the claim fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman
