DRN-3138832
The complaint
Mrs S complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) provided poor customer service 
when explaining the transactions on her credit card account.  
What happened
Mrs S says she raised a query with NatWest over a disputed car rental transaction charged 
to her credit card account. Mrs S says the car rental company had charged her twice 
although they never provided the car rental at all, as her flight arrived late, and she had to 
use another car rental provider for the car hire. Mrs S says during a series of telephone calls 
with NatWest, she was given conflicting information about the balance outstanding on her 
credit card account and whether the correct refunds had been made by the car rental 
company. Mrs S says NatWest didnt inform her the car rental company had already 
instigated a refund to her credit card account and she continued to dispute this with the 
provider as a result. Mrs S doesnt feel the level of compensation offered by NatWest fairly 
reflects the inconvenience caused over this issue.
NatWest have apologised for the poor level of service provided to Mrs S and accept that she 
should have been informed a refund had already been made to her credit card account. 
NatWest have reassured Mrs S that all the correct amendments relating to the car hire had 
been made to her credit card account. NatWest have paid Mrs S £50 for the inconvenience 
caused along with a payment of £10.80 to reimburse the cost of the telephone calls. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
He felt while NatWest did give Mrs S some poor advice regarding the transactions on her 
credit card account, they had apologised and compensated her for this and for the cost of 
any telephone calls made. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mrs S to learn she had 
been charged for the hire of a car that hadnt been provided and then to be given conflicting 
information from NatWest over the details of the refund and her outstanding credit card 
balance. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if NatWest did pass the correct amendments to 
Mrs Ss credit card account, relating to the car hire dispute, as they say. In addition, if the 
amount of compensation NatWest have awarded fairly reflects the inconvenience Mrs S has 
gone through as a result of the poor service it provided. 
The first thing to say is, when looking into the detail of the information I have been provided 
with, there is more to the complaint raised by Mrs S than first appears. Its also fair to say 
there has been some confusing communication between both parties particularly during the 
telephone calls made in August and November 2020, I have listened to. While NatWest have 
responded to what they believed the issue was, from the investigations I have carried out, I 
am satisfied they have not carried out the instructions Mrs S asked of them and was agreed 
to, in a telephone call of 21/8/2020. I should say that when coming to a full and impartial 
decision here, NatWest have not been able to provide all the information this service have 
asked for, in particular copies of a  telephone call made on 13 August 2020. So, my 
provisional decision is made with that in mind. 
In order to explain matters, I will detail the various transactions relating to the disputed car 
rental, that passed through Mrs Ss credit card account. 
Mrs S has explained to both NatWest and this service that her flight arrived late and as a 
result the car hire, she had booked wasnt available, and she had to use another car hire 
provider for that service.  Mrs S noticed from her next credit card statement, the original car 
hire provider had debited her credit card account not only with the hire costs but with a 
further charge. While we dont have a call recording of the initial phone call she made to 
NatWest on 13 August 2020, from what Ive seen, and NatWest have acknowledged, there 
was some mis-information given regarding the amount she owed on her credit card and that 
a refund had already been made by the car hire company. 
What happened next is Mrs S telephoned NatWest on 21 August 2020 to try to establish the 
transactions passing through her credit card account. Its fair to say that both the agent for 
NatWest and Mrs S were at crossed wires and both seemed to be uncertain what Mrs S 
should have been refunded or charged. Eventually in that call, it was agreed Mrs S was still 
owed £293.06 from the car hire provider based on the amount they had charged and 
refunded her credit card account.
To explain this more fully, the following car hire transactions appeared on Mrs Ss credit card 
statement:
August 2020 Credit card statement :
 13 July 2020 Car hire  £429.57 debit
 23 July 2020 Car hire £400.40 debit
 23 July 2020  Car hire £47.34 credit  
September 2020 Credit card statement :
 17 August 2020  Car hire refund - £429 .57credit
 17 August 2020  Car Hire refund - £60 credit
 21 August 2020  bank credit £429.57 credit
 21 August 2020  bank credit £400.40 credit 
 21 August 2020  credit adj  £293.60 creditDuring the telephone conversation on the 21 August 2020, the agent for NatWest correctly 
established the car hire company had charged Mrs S a total of £782.63, in July 2020. In 
addition, the agent further established the car hire company refunded a total of £489.57, and 
from this he concluded that Mrs S was due back a further £293.06, the difference between 
these amounts.  During the same telephone call, the agent then refers this matter to a 
colleague, and it was decided to initiate a chargeback for £293.06, as a final audit 
chargeback. What isnt clear and hasnt been explained, is why on that day three payments 
were credited to Mrs Ss credit card account for £429.57, £400.40 and £293.60. It isnt 
apparent from this that the correct chargeback for £293.06 was initiated based on the 
transactions here. While I cant say with any certainty, the element recredited of £293.60 
seems to have been mistaken for the correct amount of £293.06. 
What happened next relating to these disputed car hire refunds and charges, is in November 
2020s credit card statement, the following transactions appeared:
November 2020 credit card Statement :
 Undated   debit adjustment £400.40 debit
 Undated debit adjustment  £429 .57 debit
 Undated  rental car               £293.60 debit
This shows that the credits, NatWest applied to Mrs Ss credit card statement in August, had 
been reversed. It follows this left Mrs S in the same position she was in when she called 
NatWest originally, and was still owed £293.06 from the car rental company. While I 
understand undertaking a chargeback is no guarantee of success, from the information 
provided to me, I cant see that NatWest have initiated a chargeback for £293.06 as they 
agreed they would. This was the amount Mrs S had been overcharged by the car hire 
company. I have seen no evidence to suggest this chargeback was ever initiated by 
NatWest, especially given there are no corresponding entries on Mrs Ss credit card 
statement for £293.06, nor have I been provided with any evidence to say the car hire 
company had ever disputed such a chargeback. 
I have seen internal emails dated March 2021 from NatWest, that indicates the case handler 
believed a chargeback was instigated for £293.60, in August 2020 but of course that was for 
the wrong amount, as it should have been for £293.06, and it could be why there was a 
subsequent reversal of this amount. In the same email a colleague explains the other two 
credits for £400.40 and £429.57 on 21 August 2020, while marked as faster payments were 
not made by the customer, as the case handler had thought and says  I believe they are 
credit adjustments disputes keyed re 21/08 notes . With this in mind I am satisfied the three 
payments credited to Mrs Ss credit card account were initiated, albeit incorrectly, by 
NatWest. I say this because what NatWest should have done and agreed to, was to credit 
Mrs Ss credit card account with £293.06 and initiated a chargeback. 
Part of the reason for this provisional decision, is to try and establish if there is information 
available to show the chargeback for £293.06 was carried out by NatWest, as despite asking 
for further information from NatWest Ive not had sufficient clarity on what actions they 
actually took to recover the amount Mrs S seemed to be owed here. This in part may be 
down to the fact the complaint about the poor service and compensation offered seems to 
miss the point about what Mrs S should have been refunded when she first brought the issue 
to NatWests attention. 
With this in mind, while NatWest wont be happy with my provisional decision, I am satisfied 
Mrs S hasnt benefited from the correct chargeback being carried out as agreed with them for £293.06 and she is still owed this. I propose NatWest should now credit Mrs S with this 
sum and pay a further £50, by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Neither Mrs S or NatWest responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs S and NatWest until 20 October 2021 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision, but as I have heard nothing further from either I see no need to change or add to 
this and so my final decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to credit Mrs Ss credit card account with £293.06, 
and pay her a further £50, by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to credit Mrs Ss credit card account with £293.06, 
and pay her a further £50, by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman