DRN-4069114
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy and with the delays to his repairs. He wants it to buy back his car. 
What happened
Ageas took Mr Gs car for repairs following an accident. The car was returned to him, but 
rectification work was required. Ageas approved repairer failed to repair these. And so three 
months after the car should have been repaired, Ageas said Mr G could use his own repairer 
or it would pay a settlement in lieu of repairs. But Ageas repairer completed the repairs and 
returned the car two weeks later. 
Mr G thought the courtesy car provided was unsuitable. He said hed lost earnings because 
of the repairs. Mr G said his car had been devalued because of the repairs. Ageas paid Mr G 
£200 compensation for its handling of the claim. But Mr G remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought the 
repairs wouldnt affect the cars value. But she thought Ageas should increase its offer of 
compensation to £300 and pay Mr G for two days loss of earnings for the time he had spent 
dealing with aspects of the claim. 
Ageas agreed to do this, and to reimburse Mr G for the cost of new tyre stickers hed bought. 
But Mr G said hed lost confidence in the car, and he doubted the quality of the repairs. He 
said the repairer should have returned the car rather than make further repairs. He wanted 
Ageas to pay him a total loss settlement for his car. Mr G asked for an Ombudsmans 
review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr G could reasonably expect his car to be repaired without the need for rectification. 
And I can understand his frustration that this didnt happen. Ageas agreed that the service 
Mr G had received had been poor. Its engineer inspected the car after the first and second 
round of repairs and found them to be unsatisfactory. 
At that point, it was agreed that a cash settlement for the further repairs would be made. And 
Mr G expected to use this to offset the cost of replacing his car. He now wants Ageas to pay 
him a total loss settlement. I can understand Mr G was disappointed that that the repairer 
completed the repairs, and so he didnt receive the cash settlement. 
But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Ageas to now pay him for the cars 
total loss. This is because the car was always repairable. Ageas is entitled by the policys 
terms and conditions to decide how to settle a claim. And Ageas engineer said the further 
repairs were satisfactory and I havent seen any evidence to counter this. So Mr Gs car has 
been repaired to a satisfactory standard by Ageas, and it has met its liability for his claim. 
I can see from Mr Gs timeline that there were delays in the repairs being completed 
satisfactorily. But during the time Mr Gs car was being repaired he was provided with a 
courtesy car and his car was later driveable, so he was kept mobile. 
I can see that there was some dispute about the replacement car provided during the 
rectification work as Mr G needed one that met his work needs. But a suitable one was 
provided when Mr Gs car was eventually taken for rectification. So I cant see this caused 
Mr G any loss. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Ageas accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Mr G helpfully collated the time he had to spend on the claim due to the need for 
rectification. And Ageas agreed to reimburse Mr G for two days loss of earnings, £280, as 
he requested. Ageas also agreed to reimburse Mr G £8.46 (including VAT) for the cost of the 
correct tyre sticker he replaced. 
And I can see that Ageas engineer said the last rectification was completed and so the 
repairs are satisfactory. Mr G was concerned about the quality of the repairs to his car. But 
these would be guaranteed by Ageas. So if he has future concerns, then he can always 
raise this with Ageas. And so I think Ageas reimbursement and completion of the repairs 
restores Mr Gs position. 
Ageas has agreed to pay Mr G £300 compensation for the delays in the claim and the 
trouble and upset due to the need for rectification. I think this is in keeping with our published 
guidance for this level of impact, and so Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to increase its payment of compensation for Mr Gs 
distress and inconvenience caused by its delays and handling of his claim by £100 (£300 in 
total), to pay him £280 for his loss of earnings and £8.46 for his outlay for parts, as its 
already agreed to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman