DRN-3545717
The complaint
Mr H received financial advice from an appointed representative of St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP), (Vitty Alexander Wealth Management). He is unhappy with the 
suitability of the advice.
What happened
Mr H met with the appointed representative of SJP in April 2013. By this time, he was aged 
64, living overseas (outside the EEA) and had various pension and investment plans in 
place. Over the years that followed SJP provided reviews and financial advice.
Prior to his meeting with SJP, Mr H had been advised by someone, said to have been an 
unregulated adviser. As a consequence of this earlier advice, in November 2012 Mr H 
started the Friends Provident (FP) plan complained about, and over the next few months 
prior to meeting with SJP he made a number of investments, including several non-standard 
investments within the FP plan. By around late 2013, early 2014, the two non-standard 
investments particularly complained about had failed.
In 2018 a complaint was made by Mr H with the assistance of representatives to SJP. Mr Hs 
complaints were made in respect of a number of different aspects of advice and service over 
the years since they had first advised him. SJP replied in 2018 and 2019 to the various 
complaints made. Since Mr Hs first complaint was made, there have been different 
representatives and firms involved and different complaints and offers have been made and 
agreed. 
SJP accepted prior to a complaint being referred to this service, there had been some 
failures and things that could have been done better. A number of issues were resolved 
before this service looked into Mr Hs complaint, and further matters were agreed prior to the 
case being referred to an ombudsman.
When the case was first referred to this service, Mr H had four main areas of complaint 
reflecting times of advice from SJP, that were considered by the investigator at this service:
A. In May 2013 Mr H was unsuitably advised to invest £100,000 from cash deposits into 
the International Investment Bond (IIB) portfolio.
B. In March 2014 Mr H was unsuitably advised to invest £22,000 in cash from his 
Brooklands self-invested pension plan (SIPP) into the SJP Retirement Plan for 
Trustees (RPFT).
C. Mr H was unsuitably advised in around January 2016, when SJP dealt with the 
advice to partially transfer £94,000 from his Friends Provident Plan (FP plan) into the 
IIB.
D. Mr H was unsuitably advised in September 2016 to completely transfer his 
Brooklands SIPP, valued at around £34,000 (including the underlying RPFT 
investment), to the SJP Drawdown plan.
For events A and C, SJP upheld complaints on the basis there was no evidence showing 
SJP had confirmed Mr H had sought tax advice prior to the funds being accepted into the 
IIB. Although their adviser had explained that Mr H should seek advice in relation to the 
ongoing tax treatment, it was not followed up. On this basis, SJP said they could not be 
certain whether the recommendation was appropriate based on Mr Hs overseas tax 
residency. To redress the matter, SJP concluded Mr H may have invested differently and 
used the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index as a benchmark. Their 
calculations determined Mr H should be awarded around £22,000, as well as interest, to 
cover the difference in value of the benchmark and his total investment into the IIB.
Mr Hs representatives didnt agree in relation to issue C and submitted SJP should be
responsible for the losses sustained in the FP plan from May 2013 until (they originally said) 
when it was partially transferred. They considered it was evident by May 2013 the plan was 
not performing well; and they have gone on to say, it was evident investments within the plan 
were unsuitable for Mr H.
The outcome and settlement on issues B and D have been generally agreed between Mr H, 
his representatives and SJP. SJP had upheld complaints and the main thrust of redress was 
agreed. 
For issues B and D, SJP upheld on the basis they could not be certain it was in Mr Hs best
interest to retain the Brooklands SIPP when he was advised to invest the majority of the
cash held in the SIPP into the RPFT. They noted that in 2014, it would not have been
possible to transfer the full SIPP into the SJP Drawdown plan as it was below their
minimum amount. SJP concluded Mr H may have invested differently, and applied the same 
benchmark for a loss calculation. The result was that Mr H should be awarded around 
£9,200 in redress to correct his position, plus interest.
SJP also offered to cover any tax liabilities and accountancy fees incurred in Mr Hs home
country in respect of the IIB, as well as up to £5,000 towards fees incurred by Mr H in
pursuing the complaint. 
SJP confirmed they would waive any early withdrawal charges if Mr H chose to move to 
another provider. Finally, they offered £750 in compensation for Mr Hs distress and
inconvenience.
Matters were considered by an investigator at this service, and views were issued in May 
and July 2020. 
The investigator concluded that what SJP had offered was right in respect of Issues B and D 
and so he didnt conclude SJP ought to do anything further. Mr Hs representatives didnt 
disagree on these aspects; save for various ancillary points that were considered.
The complaint summarised in Issue A above was agreed and accepted by SJP. But Mr Hs 
representatives went on to say there were other failures in 2013 at the time of the advice. 
Mr Hs representatives also did not accept the investigators view in respect of Issue C.
The residual issues including those involving Issue A and what happened in 2013, as well as 
Issue C were referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
I provided provisional decisions on 16 March 2022 and 19 May 2022. I was not required to 
make substantive findings on Issues B and D. The offers, findings and redress were agreed before the case reached me. In my first provisional decision I indicated I endorsed these. As 
I needed to consider what happened in 2013, I was required to provide some detail on 
matters including how any redress for Issue A would need to be approached. I also needed 
to consider submissions on interest (up to the date of settlement) and any costs award for 
legal fees; in addition to further submissions on additional payments.
Prior to issuing my first provisional decision, SJP confirmed they agreed with Mr Hs 
representatives in the approach to be adopted on interest. It is agreed that all interest due on 
any sum of loss calculated is to be paid at 8% simple a year to the date of settlement. 
I indicated in my first provisional decision I didnt intend to uphold the complaint that an 
award ought to be made for legal fees. I set out my thinking on this, and this complaint was 
not pursued further, I adopt what I have already said on this issue.
Following my first provisional decision, the matters still dispute required me to decide on 
Issue C and the awards for costs and distress and inconvenience. The issue around Issue C 
meant I was still required to clarify the redress in respect of Issue A. 
In my second provisional decision I indicated my thinking and intended decision around the 
remaining issues. I also set out some information about what I intended to say and include in 
my final decision on all matters. 
In general terms my second provisional decision was agreed. There were limited further 
submissions around payment, costs, and potential tax implications. I have had sufficient 
information to be able to reach my final decision on this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not changed my thinking from that set out in my second provisional decision, save in 
respect of one distinct issue on costs for any additional tax advice. Otherwise I adopt what I 
said in my second provisional decision.
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint against SJP in part. I have not upheld everything 
complained about on behalf of Mr H; but I accept there were a number of areas of advice 
which were not suitable for Mr H, or could not be confirmed to have been suitable. I also 
think there were some areas where things could have been done better. 
SJP accepted a number of the aspects of Mr Hs complaint, and agreed redress, prior to 
matters being referred to this service. I have seen and approved the outcome and proposed 
redress in respect of Issues B and D. The investigator thought SJP had offered enough here, 
and arguments on these areas werent pursued. I havent changed my thinking on these 
matters from what was set out in my first and second provisional decisions.
I am upholding complaints made about Issues A and C, and Ive previously set out what SJP 
will be required to do. Im not upholding the parts of the complaint that SJP ought to have 
known in May 2013 Mr H was unsuitably invested within the FP plan and acted; nor do I 
accept the FP plan was unsuitable for Mr H, to the extent that SJP ought to have advised on 
exiting this plan (given it was already in place when they started advising Mr H).
I have not found it would be fair for SJP to be liable for losses sustained as a consequence 
of what Mr H had done before he met with SJP. I dont accept SJP could reasonably be 
expected to have acted in such a way, in the time required, such as to say they would have been able to limit the losses sustained by Mr H due to the investments that failed. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I adopt my thinking previously set out in my second provisional decision. 
I also dont accept SJP ought to be liable for the establishment charge Mr H had to pay when 
he closed the FP plan.
Putting things right
Issues B and D
Mr H and SJP accepted the investigators view in relation to issues B and D and the 
proposed redress. He thought SJP had offered enough. I was not asked to consider these 
matters. I have previously approved this and continue to do so.
SJP upheld these complaints on the basis they could not be certain it was in Mr Hs best
interest to retain the Brooklands SIPP when he was advised to invest the majority of the
cash held in the SIPP into the RPFT. This was because of the joint costs associated with the 
SIPP and the RPFT. SJP noted that in 2014, it would not have been possible to transfer the 
full SIPP into the SJP Drawdown plan as it was below their minimum amount. This of course 
did not necessarily mean it was not possible to suggest a different plan which would have 
been capable of accepting the full proceeds of the SIPP.
SJP carried out a calculation using a benchmark. This indicated the redress due to Mr H was 
around £9,200 at the time of calculation, plus interest thereafter. SJP agreed to waive any 
early withdrawal charges if Mr H chose to move to another provider. They also told Mr H and 
his representatives, that they understood that because the funds within the pension 
originated from the UK, (and there is a double taxation agreement between the UK and Mr 
Hs home country), there should be no tax implication in respect of taking an income from 
the SJP Drawdown plan. If this was not the case, SJP previously indicated they would 
discuss this with Mr H, we havent seen any thing to suggest there have been ongoing 
concerns on this.
Our investigator approved the approach, and I have done the same. The investigator noted 
that when Mr H was advised on his Brooklands SIPP in March 2014, as the majority of it was 
held in cash, Mr H would have always wanted to invest. The investigator agreed Mr H ought 
to have been advised to transfer the entire amount. The investigator was satisfied Mr H 
would have transferred out of the Brooklands SIPP, based on events at the time.
The investigator concluded he could not say specifically in which funds Mr H would have 
invested the proceeds of this SIPP. The investigator considered it was appropriate to use a 
benchmark to reach a fair sum when calculating the impact. It is agreed that the appropriate 
benchmark to be applied by SJP in all redress matters in respect of Mr H is the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. As the redress approach used an appropriate 
benchmark and SJP had considered the tax implications, the investigator was satisfied 
SJPs offer was fair. Mr H accepted the investigators view in relation to issues B and D. I 
endorse this. 
Redress for Issues B and D
The redress exercises on these matters are to be completed by SJP using the approach 
previously agreed by parties. SJP will use the agreed benchmark for this (the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index). Interest at 8% simple a year to be paid from 
the date of loss calculation (previously agreed) to the date of settlement. All charges, fees, 
withdrawals, and investments to be taken into account.
The intention of these exercises is to put Mr H as close to the position he ought to have been 
in, but for the unsuitable advice. I am told Mr H, now aged 75, no longer has the relevant pension plan and due to his circumstances it was submitted redress (and all sums due to Mr 
H) ought to be paid directly to Mr H. SJP agreed with this. It is a matter for the parties, but I 
accept that given what Im told about Mr Hs circumstances this is not inappropriate. Details 
of the calculations should be provided to Mr H in a clear and simple format.
The agreed benchmark is the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. Using 
this benchmark for calculation does not mean Mr H would have invested directly into the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index, but this index broadly reflects the 
return he would have received on this sort of investment.
SJP previously set out in their offer that they are required to deduct basic rate tax (at 20%) 
from the interest element of this payment. And noted that if Mr H is a non-taxpayer, he can 
reclaim the tax deducted from HMRC. Ive seen Mr H has received tax advice in respect of 
his circumstances and I would expect SJP to address any tax implications for Mr H. I have 
addressed what I direct SJP to do, in respect of tax implications for Mr H below.
Issue C (and Issue A):
SJP upheld the complaint that Mr H was unsuitably advised around January 2016, when 
SJP dealt with the advice to transfer £94,000 from his Friends Provident Plan (FP plan) into 
the IIB. SJP concluded Mr H may have invested differently and used the same benchmark 
(the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index). Their calculations at the time
determined Mr H should be awarded around £22,000, as well as interest, to cover the
difference in value of the benchmark and his total investment into the IIB.
SJP had previously accepted they had not included Mr Hs adult son as a younger life 
assured on the investment received from the FP plan. This was a mistake and they 
confirmed the IIB would need to be encashed and then reinvested with the correct lives 
assured. In order to facilitate this, SJP previously agreed to cover any resulting tax liabilities 
incurred in Mr Hs home country, reasonable accountancy costs, and to waive the early 
withdrawal charges (EWCs). I was not asked to consider this aspect.
SJP had also previously upheld the complaint that in May 2013 Mr H was unsuitably advised 
to invest £100,000 from cash deposits into the International Investment Bond (IIB) portfolio
Mr Hs representatives agreed SJP were right to uphold complaints about what happened in 
2013 and 2016; but they didnt think SJPs findings had gone far enough. 
It was submitted SJP should be responsible for the losses sustained in the FP plan from May 
2013. These submissions drew on the suggestion the plan was under-performing by May 
2013 and in particular Mr H was unsuitably invested, and the focus was on two investments 
held with the FP plan. Namely:
Premier New Earth Sols Recycling lOM Exp Inv Fund (the initial investment being 
£20,000)
PSG Active Fund Service Ltd Club Easy Fund (the initial investment being £15,000)
It was said SJP ought to have researched and reviewed all the investments held within the 
FP plan, and they ought to have ensured these investments were removed from his plan 
and/ or advised Mr H in 2013 these investments were unsuitable for him. It was said that if 
SJP had done what they ought to have done, Mr H would have not suffered a loss. It was 
also suggested SJP ought to have advised Mr H to transfer everything out of his FP plan in 
2013.Mr Hs representatives accepted the general approach to the redress calculation 
methodology, (the application of the agreed benchmark index to the original sum invested). 
But they were unhappy because they said it did not take into account the additional 
penalties, fees and charges that Mr H was liable to pay as a result of withdrawing partially 
and then exiting the FP plan and the higher cost of the SJP product. In particular they 
highlighted the establishment charge/ discontinuance change paid by Mr H when leaving 
the FP Plan. Mr Hs representatives said this charge ought to be factored into the redress as 
a charge that Mr H ought not to have been expected to pay.
SJP accepted the advice to transfer in 2016 was unsuitable and said their proposed redress 
would take into account all costs and fees, save for the discontinuance charge they say was 
not an early redemption or exit fee, but was a staged set-up cost (the establishment charge) 
that would always have been applied as part of the initial terms when the plan was started.
I adopt my thinking on Issue C, as contained in my second provisional decision. I uphold the 
complaints A and C as summarised in the background section of this decision above. SJP 
gave unsuitable advice around the 2013 advice to invest and the 2016 transfer out of the FP 
plan. 
I dont accept its right to conclude SJP ought to be liable for losses occasioned to Mr H 
following the suspension and failures of the two non-standard investments complained 
about. Albeit I was surprised not to have seen SJP address these investments more formally 
after they started to understand more about Mr Hs holdings and providing ongoing advice, in 
any detail.
SJP didnt advise on the commencement of the FP plan in November 2012, or the 
investments made, mainly from November 2012 until March 2013, before Mr H first 
contacted SJP. Mr H was a new overseas client and it isnt unusual for a new adviser to 
need reasonable time to obtain information on their client and their holdings 
I dont conclude it can be said SJP ought to have been in a position by the time of the 2013 
advice to advise on the whole of Mr Hs holdings, or that it can be said that SJP ought to 
have been in a position before the relevant investments were frozen or failed to have 
advised Mr H to sell the two investments complained of; nor do I accept it can reasonably 
concluded Mr H would have agreed or been able to. I dont consider SJP can be liable for 
losses resulting from the start of the FP plan or arising from the investments made in late 
2012 and early 2013.
I havent accepted what was suggested about Mr H becoming so concerned from March 
2013, (or even early 2013), by the time of his meeting with SJP in April 2013, with the value 
of his new investments that he sought out SJP to be his new adviser; or that any meaningful 
conclusion about performance could be drawn at this stage. Ive taken into account the 
material available from the time.
That doesnt mean I am not surprised to see the SJP adviser fails to record more in due 
course about the two high risk investments. The information from the time suggests to me 
SJP were informed better about the FP plan than might have been accepted; however the 
tone of what I considered didnt suggest to me there was substantive concern being raised; 
nor did it change my thinking about what SJP ought to have done and when. 
Overall I think it would have been prudent for the SJP adviser to have researched the terms 
and offerings of the FP plan instead of recommending the IIB.  This would also have ensured 
SJP could have been better placed to ensure Mr H better understood the FP plan, what it 
offered and the relevant charges of the FP plan as well as reassuring Mr H on some of his 
apparent concerns and misunderstandings. It appears more likely than not that Mr Hs 
investment objectives could have been suitably met through the FP plan. I have not received 
anything to suggest I am wrong about this. But I dont need to say any more on this as SJP have for all intents upheld a complaint on this advice, albeit for slightly different reasons and 
fair redress is to be calculated. 
I dont accept SJP ought to be liable for losses for failing to cancel the FP plan in 2013. I am 
not persuaded it was the right thing to do here. Had Mr H sufficiently understood the 
difference between the plan and investments, the charges, and that the FP plan was not an 
advised service, I dont think on balance it can be said he would have been so keen to close 
the plan. 
The suitability report of January 2016 does discuss the consequences of moving providers, 
and the impact on charges and fees. It also explained the possibility of switching funds 
internally with FP plan. So it cant be said SJP failed to draw Mr Hs attention to these 
matters, but Im not persuaded Mr H demonstrated hed sufficiently understood this, and I 
think the evidence was enough to make SJP aware Mr H might not understand these 
matters well enough to make an informed choice.
When the FP plan was closed in March 2016 a discontinuance charge of £11,281.25 was 
applied. This was said to represent the remaining establishment charges that would have 
otherwise followed. I have not been provided with the original terms of the plan, and the 
2016 withdrawal form is a poor copy, although it contains warnings about making a 
withdrawal and potential charges. But neither party has suggested to me or queried that the 
charge wasnt part of the initial set up terms of the plan. The establishment charge was 
something Mr H would have had to pay for the first eight years, or (as here) a charge would 
be made for complete withdrawal. I am not persuaded this is a charge SJP ought to be liable 
to meet. It was part of the terms of the plan on commencement, and thus agreed prior to 
SJPs involvement.
In their final response letter of 14 December 2018, SJP indicated they could not be certain 
the advice in respect of opening the IIB was suitable for Mr H, or that he would have gone 
ahead with the IIB if he had sought tax advice. On this basis SJP indicated their proposed 
redress comparing the value of Mr Hs llB on 4 December 2018 with the notional value of his 
investment had the returns matched the agreed benchmark; interest to be paid on such sum.
It is agreed that interest is to be paid on all redress sums until the date of settlement, where 
there is a date loss can properly be calculated at. I consider this to be the right approach. 
SJP accepted this in earlier letters to Mr H.
The date of 4 December 2018 is agreed as the right date to use when calculating loss, and I 
approve this.
Redress Issue A
In assessing what would be fair compensation my aim is to put Mr H as close to the position 
as he would probably be in now if he had not started and invested in the IIB. I think Mr H 
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done 
but I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, given Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
SJP need to compare the value of Mr Hs llB on 4 December 2018 (actual value) with the 
notional value of his investment had the returns matched the agreed benchmark (fair value). 
All calculations should take account of all charges and fees, as well as any additions or 
withdrawals. Care must be taken that there is a proportional approach adopted in respect of 
all applicable fees, charges, additions and withdrawals, when also conducting the redress 
exercise in respect of Issue C, so that no sum is unfairly accounted for more than once.If the fair value is greater than the actual value, then there has been a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, then there has 
been no loss and no compensation is payable.
SJP will need to pay interest on any compensation at 8% a year simple from the 4 
December 2018 to the date of settlement.
If there is any loss this amount ought to be paid into Mr Hs pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of compensation and interest due. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The pension shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. As far as I am aware Mr H continues 
to live overseas.
I am told Mr H, now aged 75, no longer has the relevant pension plan and due to his 
circumstances it was submitted redress (and all sums due to Mr H) ought to be paid directly 
to Mr H. SJP agreed with this. It is a matter for the parties, but I accept that given what Im 
told about Mr Hs circumstances this is not inappropriate.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr H in a clear and simple format.
The agreed benchmark is the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. Using 
this benchmark for calculation does not mean Mr H would have invested directly into the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index, but this index broadly reflects the 
return he would have received on this sort of investment.
SJP previously set out in their offer that they are required to deduct basic rate tax (at 20%) 
from the interest element of this payment. And noted that if Mr H is a non-taxpayer, he can 
reclaim the tax deducted from HMRC. Ive seen Mr H has received tax advice in respect of 
his circumstances and I would expect SJP to address any tax implications for Mr H.
I have addressed what I direct SJP to do, in respect of tax implications for Mr H below.
Redress Issue C
In assessing what would be fair compensation my aim is to put Mr H as close to the position 
as he would probably be in now if he had not closed the FP plan and invested in the IIB plan 
in 2016. 
Given Mr H would need to pay establishment charges on the FP plan until 2020, remaining 
in the FP plan appears to have potentially been the more prudent and efficient approach for 
Mr H and is something I would have expected SJP to have explored and advised on more 
comprehensively. Having seen Mr Hs concerns at the time (in particular his emails to the 
adviser in 2015), they dont demonstrate an accurate understanding of the FP plan.
I consider on balance, investments suitable for Mr Hs circumstances and objectives could 
have been made within the FP plan. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have 
done but I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, given Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives at the time.SJP need to establish the value of the FP plan prior to closure and disinvestment and use 
the agreed benchmark to reach a sum up to the agreed date of 4 December 2018, to obtain 
a fair value. This will need to be compared to the actual value, this is value of the sum 
invested in the IIB as at the agreed date of 4 December 2018.
All calculations should take account of all charges and fees; as well as any additions or 
withdrawals; all proportionate as applicable. Here this includes the ongoing establishment 
charge that would have been applied, when considering the fair value; ensuring there is no 
double apportionment of this charge when looking at what was charged at closure and when 
and in respect of redress on Issue A.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, then there has been a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, then there has 
been no loss and no compensation is payable.
SJP will need to pay interest on any compensation due at 8% a year simple from the date of 
calculation to the date of settlement.
If there is any loss this amount ought to be paid into Mr Hs pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of compensation and interest due. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The pension shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. As far as I am aware Mr H continues 
to live overseas. Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr H in a clear and simple 
format.
The agreed benchmark is the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. Using 
this benchmark for calculation does not mean Mr H would have invested directly into the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index, but this index broadly reflects the 
return he would have received on this sort of investment.
SJP previously set out in their offer that they are required to deduct basic rate tax (at 20%) 
from the interest element of this payment. And noted that if Mr H is a non-taxpayer, he can 
reclaim the tax deducted from HMRC. 
Ive seen Mr H has needed to receive tax advice in respect of his circumstances and I would 
expect SJP to address any tax implications for Mr H here; subject to what I have said about 
payments for tax advice. I have addressed what I direct SJP to do, in respect of tax 
implications for Mr H below.
I am told Mr H, now aged 75 no longer has the relevant pension plan and due to his 
circumstances it was submitted redress (and all sums due to Mr H) ought to be paid directly 
to Mr H. SJP agreed with this. It is a matter for the parties, but I accept that given what Im 
told about Mr Hs circumstances this is not inappropriate.
Additional matters
Tax advice
I previously indicated Id expect SJP to assist Mr H in addressing the tax implications of all 
and any payments due to him arising from this complaint. I proposed a method to address this in my second provisional decision, that I hoped would provide certainty for all parties. As 
I have seen some historic and more recent disagreement on invoicing and interim payments, 
I felt it important to consider the best approach.
I received submissions on my proposal. SJP indicated their knowledge Mr H has tax 
advisers in place and their willingness to pay for Mr Hs tax advice here and that they have 
done so previously. I accept this. For this reason, I direct SJP to assist Mr H in receiving tax 
advice and support on the payment, impact and liabilities in respect of sums due to him 
resulting from the complaint that was referred to this service. This will include the payment 
for specialist tax advice for Mr H. SJP will need to pay up to a maximum of £3,000 for this.
 
SJP are directed to pay £250 immediately to Mr H, from the maximum of £3,000 that may 
need to be paid towards tax advice. This sum is to be paid within 28 days of SJP being 
informed of the acceptance of this decision. This sum is paid to enable Mr H to start to seek 
advice as soon as possible. Should, which seems unlikely, Mr H not seek advice, this sum 
will not need to be repaid to SJP.
Costs 
SJP initially offered a sum of £5,000 to represent the reasonable expenses incurred by Mr H, 
but matters progressed after that. In reaching a fair sum to reflect the costs incurred I looked 
carefully at everything provided and said. SJP provided various undertakings in their letters 
to meet reasonable expenses incurred for various professional services and activities Mr H 
would not have otherwise had to obtain or undertake. Ive seen that some invoices were 
historically queried and considered to be inconsistent. There was also disagreement about 
whether SJP had made interim payments.
In my second provisional decision I accepted some interim payments had been paid, some 
were for various tax and investment advice. I was not clear on precisely what work was 
completed under the invoices paid by SJP. But I didnt consider it proportionate or necessary 
to review every invoice in reaching my decision on a fair award for costs. No one suggested 
my approach was wrong.
 
Having balanced everything provided I indicated I intended to reduce the sum of £5,000, to 
£4,500. I have not changed my thinking on this and SJP need to pay Mr H, £4,500 to 
represent his reasonable costs. 
Distress and inconvenience
I have taken into account that Mr H has been represented. SJP need to pay Mr H the sum of 
£750 appropriate to be paid to Mr H to reflect his distress and inconvenience here.
Other matters
I dont consider the issue of legal expenses has been pursued. But for completeness I dont 
consider an award for legal expenses to be appropriate here. This service is free and does 
not require people to be represented. 
I previously set out my understanding the date of 4 December 2018 is agreed as the right 
date to use when calculating loss, and I approve this, (interest due on any sums is payable 
thereafter to the date of settlement).
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to the relevant limit plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I 
think are appropriate. I am not aware of the redress in this case being likely to exceed the 
relevant limit. Having previously indicated this, I have not been told this is wrong.Where I think fair compensation is more than the relevant limit, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. Any recommendation is not part of my determination or award. A 
business doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that a complainant can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Where this is relevant a complainant may 
want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept a decision. I do 
recommend SJP pays the balance, should it exceed the relevant limit, but there is nothing to 
suggest here, it will do.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mr Hs complaint against St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc in part. SJP are required to:
Complete the redress exercises agreed (in respect of Issues B and D) and as 
directed in respect in Issues A and C.
To assist Mr H in respect of advice on the tax implications and liabilities involved in 
the sums to be paid to him. Mr H will need specialized advice and SJP will meet the 
costs of such advice to the maximum of £3,000. An initial payment of £250 is to be 
made to Mr H within 28 days of SJP being informed of the acceptance of this 
decision.
Pay Mr H £4,500 to represent his reasonable costs. Such sum to be paid to Mr H 
within 28 days of SJP being informed of the acceptance of this decision.
Pay Mr H £750 to represent his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman