DRN-2625073
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank plc (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr S in 1998. The policy was taken out 
when Mr S was applying for a mortgage, and provided cover if he couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Ss needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr S the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr S 
is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking 
out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr S says he doesnt remember PPI being discussed when he took out his mortgage, and 
he wouldnt have agreed to buy the cover if it had been offered. Ive noted everything Mr S 
has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr S and Lloyds 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over twenty years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Lloyds has provided copies of the documents that were completed when Mr S took out his 
mortgage. The loan assessment form indicates that PPI was mentioned to Mr S, as well as 
contents insurance. Ive also seen a copy of the PPI application that Mr S completed, 
together with his direct debit instructions. It seems the PPI was free for the first twelve 
months.
Without anything else to support what Mr S has told me, I dont consider it would be fair or 
reasonable to find that Lloyds didnt make him aware of the PPI, or that he had a choice 
about taking it out.
Lloyds accepts that it advised Mr S to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mr S was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Even though Mr S was entitled to sick pay from his employer, the PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to this and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place 
would mean Mr S could use his employer benefits to pay for other expenses if he 
was off work sick. 
- Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
- I think its likely that Lloyds made Mr S aware the PPI was free for the first twelve 
months, and that it told him how much he would have to pay when the free period 
ended. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it 
unlikely Mr S would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable once the free period ended. So I 
think it unlikely Mr S would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided  overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive noted what Mr S has said about Lloyds telling him he didnt have PPI when he first tried 
to make a mis-sale claim. But its not unusual for businesses to find that customers did have 
the cover, even if an initial search of their records didnt reveal anything. So this point 
doesnt change my overall conclusions about the complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman