DRN-4099471
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about Accredited Insurance Europe Limiteds (AIEL) 
decision to decline a claim they made for flood damage and cancel their home insurance  
policy. 
What happened
On 6 October 2022 Mr and Mrs Ms home was damaged by flood. They made a claim to
their insurer, AIEL.
AIEL instructed a contractor to visit Mr and Mrs Ms home to assess the damage. A Surveyor
attended and took photos and moisture content (MC) readings.
Flooring to one of the ground floor rooms was removed by an appointed contractor of AIEL
on 10 October 2022. The Surveyor said a second visit would be necessary to remove the
remaining flooring which they said was damaged beyond economical repair.
On 17 October 2022 AIEL issued a seven day cancellation notice to Mr and Mrs M. It said
they had failed to tell it about building works carried out to the property. The policy said Mr
and Mrs M needed to tell AIEL before building works were carried out. It said if it had known
about the buildings works, it wouldnt have offered cover and so it would have cancelled the
policy in September 2022 - when the works were carried out.
This meant AIEL didnt provide cover for Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
On 17 October 2022 contractors came to Mr and Mrs Ms home and removed the remaining
damaged flooring.
Mr and Mrs M complained to AIEL. They were unhappy with its decision to cancel the policy
and not meet their claim. They were unhappy with the condition their flooring was left in.
They said the contractor acted on behalf of AIEL and ripped out 95% of the flooring - left
damaged skirting boards, door thresholds and an exposed gripper bar which led to an injury
to Mr Ms heel.
AIEL didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It said it had correctly cancelled the policy.
AIEL said that it had a duty as the insurer to carry out necessary works to Mr and Mrs Ms
home to prevent further damage to the property.
AIEL said it wouldnt look to recover the costs of the claim from Mr and Mrs M even though it
was entitled to do so as it had cancelled the policy.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought AIEL had
acted reasonably in cancelling the policy as photos from the Surveyor showed there had 
been building works carried out to the property.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. In summary they said we have discounted their complaint about
the destructive and unnecessary works carried out to their home.
The Investigator explained that the works AIEL had carried out were deemed necessary and
in line with the policy when a claim is made.
Mr and Mrs M said they felt compelled to accept the decision to cancel the policy for the
reasons given. But they said the floors were largely dry six days after the incident. They said
the contractor was advised to remove the flooring so that AIEL would replace them.
Mr and Mrs M said when the contractors visited a second time it was evidence AIEL hadnt
communicated that it was intending to cancel the policy and not meet the claim. They do not
agree the removal of all of the flooring was necessary for health and safety reasons.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 March 2023. I thought AIEL should have prevented 
further works being carryout by its contractors when it knew it intended to cancel the policy 
and not meet the claim. I intended to uphold the complaint and ask AIEL to meet the costs to 
replace the flooring its contractors removed during a second visit on either 17 or 18 October 
2022 as by this date it had decided not to meet the claim. And I intended to ask AIEL to pay 
Mr and Mrs M £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In my provisional decision I said I would reconsider whether AIELS decision to cancel the 
policy was fair as it hadnt provided underwriting evidence to show it wouldnt have offered 
cover if it knew about the intended building works. 
I havent received a response from either party to my provisional decision. So the case has 
been passed back to me for a final decision - and Ive reconsidered whether AIELs decision 
to cancel the policy was fair in the absence of any evidence to support it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease Ive set out the complaints under headings below.
AIELs decision to cancel Mr and Mrs Ms policy
Mr and Mrs Ms policy with AIEL sets out changes they need to be aware of during the policy
term. This isnt unusual as certain changes can affect the risk, the price, or both.
The policy says:
Changes in your circumstances we need to know about
You must tell us about any changes to the answers you gave us when taking out this
policy and any changes in your circumstances which happen during the period of
insurance.
It is important that you tell us about a change before it happens or as soon as you
know about it.
Here are some examples of changes that you must tell us about
7. If you are having any building work done
You must tell us before the start of any building work, conversions, renovations,
demolitions and extensions to your property.
You must tell us at least 30 days before it starts.AIELs policy says that when Mr and Mrs M tell it about a change it will let them know if it
affects their insurance: and that this could mean cancelling their insurance. AIEL explained
that if Mr and Mrs M didnt tell it about the changes, it wont pay their claim and it may result
in the policy being cancelled.
So I think it was clear from the policy wording that it was for Mr and Mrs M to tell AIEL before
buildings works began in order to check the policy still provided cover.
Photos provided by the Surveyor show the kitchen works that were carried out. Im satisfied
the works met the definition provided by AIEL under the policy.
So as Mr and Mrs M didnt tell AIEL before works began, I think they breached the terms of
the policy.
AIEL says it wouldnt have offered cover if it had known about the building works. However, 
in order for an insurer to cancel a policy for this reason, it needs to provide underwriting 
evidence to this service to support its decision and show it has treated its customer fairly.
This information is commercially sensitive and so cannot be shared. But AIEL can share this
with us so we can be satisfied its decision was reached in a fair way.
I havent seen AIELs underwriting criteria and I gave AIEL a further opportunity to provide 
this in response to my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I wrote; 
If I dont receive satisfactory evidence to show AIEL wouldnt have offered Mr and 
Mrs M cover if theyd told it about the forthcoming building works, I will have to 
consider if its decision to cancel the policy was fair and reasonable.
In the absence of supporting evidence from AIEL, and in line with my provisional decision, I 
consider its decision to cancel the policy was unreasonable. Having to declare a 
cancellation of a policy by an insurer can have a significant impact on the choice of insurers 
available to a customer and the price they pay for future insurance. As AIEL hasnt shown its 
decision to cancel the policy was fair, AIEL should provide a letter to Mr and Mrs M 
confirming the cancellation was made in error and remove any cancellation marker it may 
have recorded. Mr and Mrs M can provide this letter to future insurers if needed. AIEL should 
ensure Mr and Mrs M receive a refund of any cancellation fee it applied and a pro rata 
refund for cover if they paid for the policy in full. 
Removal works carried out by AIELs appointed contractors
AIEL is relying on the following policy term to support why its contractors carried out the strip
out works they did to the flooring in Mr and Mrs Ms home:
1: Enter any buildings following loss or damage. We will always arrange this with you
beforehand.
2: Carry out any work that is needed to reduce any further loss or damage and
secure the site to prevent unauthorised entry, especially if the site may be of risk to 
health and safety.
5: arrange the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements, and dispose of any damaged
items appropriately. We have the right to choose which contractors to instruct to carry
out the work.Ive listened to key call recordings which we asked AIEL to provide. On 10 October 2022 an
agent asked Mrs M if any renovation or building work was being carried out to the property.
Mrs M said yes, and explained there was a kitchen extension - but that it hadnt been
affected by the flood.
The agent didnt comment on Mrs Ms reply and continued to explain how the claim would be
progressed and settled.
So its clear that AIEL were aware of a possible breach of its terms on 10 October 2022. This
is the same day as the contractors made their first visit to Mr and Mrs Ms home.
Timelines have been provided by Mr and Mrs M and AIEL. There are discrepancies in AIELs
timeline. AIEL says it issued a seven day cancellation letter on 18 October 2022. However,
its copy letter is dated 17 October 2022.
A date and time stamped photo provided by Mr M shows a contractors van full of flooring
which Mr M says was removed from their property during a second visit. This photo is dated
18 October 2022. However, AIELs timeline says the contractor carried out a second visit on
17 October 2022.
On 10 October 2022 the Surveyor reported high moisture content (MC) readings to the
flooring in the lounge, dining room, games room and lounge.
However, according to the information provided by both parties, a second visit by contractors
took place on either 17 or 18 October 2022 to remove the remaining flooring. Mr and Mrs M
say that the floors were largely dry by this date due to the drying equipment installed from 6
October 2022. This was a week after the Surveyor took MC readings. So its plausible that
the floors were drier by the time of the second visit by contractors.
Its clear from the date of the cancellation notice that before 17 October 2022, AIEL was
aware it intended to cancel the policy and not meet the claim. But the contractors attended
Mr and Mrs Ms home on either 17 or 18 October 2022 seemingly unaware of AIELs
decision. I think this is significant - as from the point AIEL decided it wasnt going to meet the
claim and backdate the cancellation of the policy, it should have immediately halted its
contractors from carrying out any further works.
The policy term it has relied on applies to where it will meet a claim - and includes rebuilding
works, repairs and replacements. I dont think AIEL should have continued to apply the
policy terms and continue with removal works when it had decided it wasnt going to meet
the claim and carry out replacement or repair works. As soon as AIEL had made its decision
to cancel the policy and not meet the claim, the decision as to how to deal with the damaged
flooring was one for Mr and Mrs M to make. But on the same day as the cancellation notice
was issued, contractors acting on behalf of AIEL were at their home and removed the
remaining flooring.
I believe Mr and Mrs Ms account that the contractors carried out works during both visits on 
the assumption their claim was being met. And so Im not satisfied that it was reasonable for 
the contractors to have removed the remaining flooring on 17 or 18 October 2022.
So I dont think AIEL acted reasonably when dealing with Mr and Mrs Ms claim. And I think
its failure to stop further removal works from being carried out when it knew it wasnt going to
meet the claim for replacement and repairs was unfair.
From the Surveyors report dated 10 October 2022, the floors were described as soaking.When Mrs M spoke to AIEL on 10 October 2022, she described the floors as spongy. So
although Mr M says the floors were largely dry six days after the event, I dont think the
contractors decision to remove the dining room flooring on the first visit - 10 October 2022 -
was unreasonable.
So Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in part. I think AIEL should  meet the
costs to replace the remaining flooring that was removed during the contractors second visit.
I think AIEL should pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of £350 for the distress and
inconvenience it caused them. Ive no doubt it was upsetting to have to deal with a heel 
injury from an exposed gripper bar after the contractors removed flooring. Its clear that Mr 
and Mrs M have been caused unnecessary disruption over and above the damage the flood 
caused as a result of AIELs poor handling of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd 
to do the following:
Meet the costs to replace the flooring its contractors removed during a second 
visit on either 17 or 18 October 2022 as by this date it had decided not to meet 
the claim.
Pay Mr and Mrs M £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Provide a letter to Mr and Mrs M confirming the policy was cancelled in error and 
remove any record of the cancellation.
Provide a refund for any cancellation fee and a pro rata refund for cover if Mr and 
Mrs M paid for the policy in full. Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd should pay 
interest on any refund at a simple rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
of cancellation to the date of refund.
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs M accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off.
It should also give Mr and Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman