DRN-3660454
The complaint
Mr B complains through his representative that Everyday Lending Limited trading as
Everyday Loans (Everyday) irresponsibly lent him money on high cost loans which he
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr B was provided with the following loans by Everyday:
Date of loan Amount Instalments* Repayment 
period
Loan 1 10/2/20 £2,000 £186 18 months
Loan 2 28/6/21 £3,500 £240 24 months
*rounded up
Mr B got into difficulties over repaying the loans, especially the second one, after he lost 
his job. He is currently on a repayment plan regarding the second loan, which is still 
outstanding. He complained that Everyday didnt carry out proper affordability checks 
concerning his loans.
Everyday said it carried out verification checks, including credit checks, independent 
verification of Mr Bs income, and a review of recent bank statements. It used ONS (Office 
for National Statistics) data to assess his living expenses. It assessed that for both loans, 
they were affordable to Mr B.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator said that Everyday had acted fairly
in respect of loan 1. However, for loan 2 he said that Mr Bs income had gone down and he 
had exceeded his credit limit on two credit cards. So he said that Everyday shouldnt have 
lent the money for the second loan.
Everyday disagreed, pointing out that Mr Bs credit position had improved after the first loan.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I agreed that, in respect of loan 1 Everyday had acted 
fairly. In respect of loan 2, I noted that Mr Bs credit position had actually improved since 
loan 1. In particular I noted he now appeared to have no loans except for the Everyday loan 
to be repaid, and the new loan. He now had five credit cards (having previously had four), 
but his total balances on those cards had decreased by £100. With the new loan instalment 
the percentage of his income spent on credit commitments was now about 24%. I said that 
Everyday had reasonably assessed that both loans were affordable, and that it had made 
fair lending decisions.
Mr B did not agree. Ill set out his comments, and my responses, below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are: 
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under the agreements.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure
that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or significant
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
In respect of this loan, the credit check showed Mr B to have four credit cards, a home
lending loan and a small bank overdraft of less than £20. His income was assessed as beinga minimum figure of about £1,600. There were also three short term loans which were
intended to be paid off using the loan monies. As the loans dont appear on the credit check
in respect of loan 2 or on Mr Bs bank statements, I think it reasonable to assume that they
were paid off by using the first Everyday loan. Nevertheless, allowing for that and for the new
loan instalments, his credit commitments amounted to around 29% of his income. This was
high, so it did depend on his disposable income as to whether he could afford the loan.
I think Everydays assessment of Mr Bs living expenses was reasonable and there was
nothing of any particular concern in his bank statements. Everyday assessed that Mr Bs
disposable income after paying off the loans, would still have been about £650 a month. I
think that this was sufficient for Mr B to afford the new loan instalments, and that Everyday
made a fair lending decision.
loan 2
The loan was said to be for refinancing. Mr Bs monthly income as verified by Everyday
had gone down at the time of applying for the second loan, by about £200 a month. And, as
our adjudicator pointed out, Mr B had exceeded the credit limit on two of his credit cards.
This should be taken into account as a possible indication of difficulty in managing his
finances. The fact that the limits were exceeded by only small amounts doesnt mean they
should be ignored  credit card companies dont usually allow customers to exceed their limit
by large amounts.
The loan paid off the remainder of loan 1. But Mr Bs credit position had actually improved
since loan 1. In particular he now had no loans except for the Everyday loan to be repaid
and the new loan. He now had five credit cards but his total balances on those cards had
decreased by £100. With the new loan instalment the percentage of his income spent on
credit commitments was now about 24%.
Because he had a lower income, Mr Bs monthly disposable income, after paying the loan
instalment, was now about £284. And, as he had paid off his loan after receiving loan 1, he
would have had sufficient funds to pay off his credit cards. Im aware that he got into
difficulties paying this loan but this was because he lost his job.
Overall I think that Everyday did proportionate checks at the time of the applications for both
loans and reasonably assessed that they were affordable. I think it made fair lending
decisions in respect of both loans.
Mr B hasnt commented regarding loan 1. I remain persuaded by my original findings in 
respect of that loan. 
As regards loan 2, Mr B says he had five credit cards, one for over £1,000, one for £700, two 
for £200 and one for £250. He says he also had between 5  14 payday loans and a £900 
catalogue debt. He further said that he was overdrawn and that Everyday hadnt asked to 
see his bank statements. He believes that if Everyday had done proper credit checks it 
would have shown he couldnt afford the second loan.
 
I should clarify first of all that Everyday did see Mr Bs bank statements for the period up to 
the application for loan 2, and the copy statements I have seen were supplied (and 
annotated) by Everyday.
As regards Mr Bs assertions about his level of debt, all I can say is that as a check of Mr Bs 
finances, I would regard reviewing copy bank statements and payslips, carrying out a credit 
check and reviewing Mr Bs application, to be proportionate. And it was reasonable of 
Everyday to rely on the information obtained by those checks in deciding whether to issue the loan. The credit check showed Mr B had five credit cards, the highest balance being 
£800, and the total balances of all five to be around £1,460. 
The check showed Mr B had had loans in the past (though not between loans 1 and 2) but, 
at the time of application, no active loans. Its possible for loans not to show up in a credit 
check, if they were recently issued. And some companies dont share information with all the 
credit reporting agencies. Nevertheless if Mr B had had that number of loans he should have 
advised Everyday. The bank statements dont show any recent payments for loans and Mr B 
was only marginally overdrawn on a couple of occasions. The credit check and bank 
statements dont show any catalogue debt.
As Ive said in my provisional findings, the information from Everydays checks shows that 
Mr Bs level of indebtedness had gone down. After paying off loan 1 he should have had 
sufficient capital to pay off all his credit cards. But even without paying them off I still think 
that Everyday reasonably assessed that Mr B could afford the new loan repayments. I think 
it made a reasonable decision to lend the money in respect of both loans. 
My provisional findings, as set out above, are now final and form part off this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman