DRN-4422644
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) have refused to 
allow him to reject the electric car he acquired through them which he says is faulty and 
does not achieve the stated mileage range. 
What happened
Mr Z entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in March 2023 to acquire a used 
electric car. Shortly after the agreement began, he complained to VWFS, asking to return the 
car. He said that the car wasnt giving him the expected mileage range, as the most he 
seemed to be able to achieve was 160 miles, but it was advertised with a 193 mile range. 
He said that he tried to exercise his right to return the car within the 14 days cooling off 
period, but this wasnt being allowed. He also said that the car had been mis sold to him due 
to this range discrepancy. 
VWFS responded with their final response letter (FRL) in May 2023. They didnt uphold the 
complaint and said that the dealership had assessed the car and found no faults with the 
battery. They explained that the published mileage range of up to 193 miles was based on 
industry standard laboratory tests (called WLTP technical standards), which are derived 
under optimal conditions, and not taking into account normal driving conditions and 
variables.  
They also highlighted the information on the car manufacturer website which explained the 
variables which impact an electric cars range. They followed on by giving Mr Z his options to 
end the agreement early, which didnt include rejecting it/giving it back/changing his mind 
within any cooling off period. 
While waiting for this response, Mr Z had already brought the complaint to our service. An 
investigator here investigated it and didnt uphold the complaint. They said that theyd seen 
no evidence of any fault with the car, and didnt agree that the car had been misrepresented 
to Mr Z. They said there was no evidence of any conversation held between Mr Z and the 
dealer where a range of 193 miles was discussed, and that when asked about this, VWFS 
explained that the process dealers would follow was to refer those kinds of questions to the 
manufacturer website. They also said that the salesperson involved had discussed the 
fluctuations in range depending on the driving conditions at the time. 
The investigator highlighted the details of the industry standard tests which are carried out, 
and how these are designed only to give consumers a comparison between the mileage 
range of different makes and models and arent real world comparisons of the mileage range 
that is achievable. And finally, the investigator went on to explain that there was no right to 
reject or end the agreement and give the car back within 14 days. They highlighted that in 
the agreement itself, a 14 day period was discussed but this was only in relation to 
withdrawing from the finance itself, meaning Mr Z would have to arrange another way to pay 
off the money owed, and would keep the car.
Mr Z didnt agree with this view. He said that the vehicle was advertised with a range of 193 
miles, and thats why he acquired it. He said no conversation about the real world range 
happened with the dealership, or he wouldnt have bought it. He asked for an Ombudsman 
to make a final decision on his complaint.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr Z was supplied with a vehicle under a 
hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  VWFS here  has a responsibility 
to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
There are three issues for me to consider here. The first is whether Mr Z was entitled to 
exercise any rights to give the car back without reason, a 14 day cooling off period. The 
second is whether there was a fault with the car meaning it was not performing as it should. 
And the third is whether the car was misrepresented to Mr Z; was a false statement of fact 
made about the car and its range which induced him to acquire the car. 
Looking at the first issue, there is no 14 days cooling off period here relating to the car itself 
and giving it back. As the investigator already explained, talk of 14 days to withdraw in the 
agreement itself is about the finance, not the car. So, if someone decides to pay for the car 
in cash, or to arrange different finance to pay for it, they have 14 days to withdraw from the 
finance agreement but have to make other arrangements to pay for the car. 
A consumer may have the right to reject the car and get their deposit back if the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality. This is outlined in the CRA, but to find that Mr Z had this right, Id need 
to be satisfied that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. This is the second issue I have 
looked at. 
Mr Z has confirmed that it wasnt VWFS who had the battery checked and tested for faults, 
but it was himself. However, this doesnt change the fact that there was no fault or problem 
with the battery identified, and it was performing as expected. No evidence has been 
provided of the battery being faulty in any way, nor has any testimony or evidence been 
provided about any other faults. As such, I cant agree that Mr Z had the right to reject the 
car under his rights in the CRA about faulty/unsatisfactory quality goods. 
Finally, I have considered whether the agreement itself was misrepresented to Mr Z. Hes 
said that he was mis-sold the car, based on false advertising of the range the car could 
achieve. For me to agree that the car was misrepresented, there are two stages that need to 
be proven. The first is that Mr Z was given some false information about the car, and the 
second is that he relied upon this information in deciding to acquire the car. In other words, if 
he hadnt been told the wrong information, he wouldnt have entered into the finance agreement. 
Mr Z has said when raising the complaint with VWFS, and when he asked for this final 
Ombudsman decision, that the car wasnt able to achieve the 193 mile range as advertised 
prior to purchase/when he purchased it. He has denied that the salesperson had any 
discussion with him about real world range and the kind of things that can impact the range 
achieved, until he complained after hed acquired the car.
Ive thought about this, and whether a false statement has been given to him. There is no 
evidence of any conversation between the salesperson and Mr Z about the range of the car. 
This ties in with Mr Z saying that he was not told about real world range and the kind of 
things that might impact on the range he achieved. 
Mr Z has also said several times about the 193 mile range being as advertised. Ive thought 
about this and considered the advertisement of this that he may have seen. 193 miles would 
be the range given as the maximum for the car, but in any printed material or other published 
advert such as on their website, the manufacturer references this and goes on to explain the 
test itself, how its not real world conditions, and generally what sort of impact this can have. 
Alongside this, the dealership/VWFS have confirmed that if they are asked questions about 
range, their process is to refer a customer to the published information/the manufacturer 
website. 
I empathise with Mr Z, as its clear that when he realised that the real world range would not 
be 193 miles, he didnt want the car. But Ive seen no evidence that he was given any false 
information. All published information for the car explains what the 193 mile range means, 
and how its achieved. It also explains what sort of things will impact on achieving this range. 
Ive seen no evidence that he was told anything different, and I cant envisage a situation 
where he would be told something different based on the sales process that the dealership 
has explained to VWFS. Equally, Ive seen no evidence that would question the ability of the 
car to achieve the 193 mile range in the specific tests used to achieve that figure in 
laboratory conditions. 
Mr Z has told us he didnt have a conversation with a salesperson about the range and real 
world conditions. When raising his complaint, he hasnt claimed a salesperson told him he 
would achieve 193 miles, hes said the car doesnt achieve the advertised 193 mile range.
Unfortunately, on the balance of probability, I think Mr Z has seen a figure of 193 miles in the 
literature or on the website, and not read further or discussed the reality of this with a 
salesperson. If hed checked the information, Im sure he would have realised that this was 
not a realistic range when you take into account things like air temperature, traffic, road 
conditions, driving style, and things like tyre condition, whether heating is being used, lights 
are on, multimedia systems in use, etc etc. 
But regarding misrepresentation, this means that the car was not misrepresented to him. 
The first test is whether he was given false information about the car, but he hasnt proved 
this was the case. Hes told us that its the dealer or salespersons responsibility to highlight 
the real world range to him, but that isnt the same as him being given any false information.
 All the published information Ive seen is accurate and describes the impact on range of real 
world conditions, so Ive seen no proof of him seeing any wrong information which induced 
him to enter the contract. Ive also seen no evidence that leads me to believe a salesperson 
gave him any wrong information. As such, I cant agree that the car/agreement was 
misrepresented to him. 
Overall, as I said, I do have empathy with Mr Z and his situation. But as Im not persuaded that either VWFS, or their broker (the dealership) has done anything wrong, I wont be 
upholding his complaint or asking them to do any more.     
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman