DRN-2533767
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that TSB Bank plc wouldnt provide a letter that she needed to be written in 
a specific format.
What happened
Ms R was applying for residency overseas and needed a letter from TSB to be written in a 
specific format, including specific information, to satisfy the requirements of the residency 
application.
Ms R asked TSB to write the letter, but TSB advised that they were unable to do so. Ms R 
wasnt happy with this, so she made a complaint. TSB didnt uphold the complaint and 
confirmed in their complaint response that Ms Rs request for the letter to be written in a 
specific format wasnt a service they were able to provide.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with TSBs response and so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, and while they sympathised with Ms Rs 
position, they didnt feel that it was appropriate to censure TSB for not providing a letter in a 
format that fell outside of the standard practices of TSB. So, they didnt uphold the complaint 
either.
Ms R remained dissatisfied and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has provided this service with several points as to why she feels that TSB havent 
acted fairly here, and Ive taken these into consideration when assessing this complaint. But, 
having conducted a thorough review, I find that I have arrived at the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and for essentially the same reasons.
While it may seem that a request for a letter to be written in a specific format shouldnt be a 
request that a business would struggle to meet, the question I have to answer is whether its 
fair to hold a business accountable for not being able to meet that request. Ultimately, I dont 
feel that I am able to do this here.
I say this because a business is under no obligation to provide a service that deviates from 
its standard terms. And, because the letter that Ms R was requesting in this instance was a 
request for TSB to provide a service that deviated from their standard terms, I cant 
reasonably say that TSB have acted inappropriately or unfairly in not being able to meet this 
request.
I know that this will be frustrating for Ms R, and I sympathise with her position here. TSB 
have explained to this service that they dont have a process in place to enable them to 
produce the letter that Ms R requested. But it would be hoped, should Ms R continue to need 
the letter moving forward, that TSB might be able to find a way to accommodate Ms Rs 
request.
However, from the perspective of this formal complaint, as explained above, its not 
appropriate for me to say that TSB have acted unreasonably or unfairly here. Furthermore, 
while I can appreciate that this experience may have been stressful for Ms R, it follows that I 
cant fairly hold TSB accountable or ask them to pay any form of compensation to Ms R 
because of it. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms R was wanting, but I hope that she can 
understand, in consideration of what I have explained above, why I wont be upholding this 
complaint or asking TSB to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman