DRN-4009929
The complaint
Mr S complains that Future Wealth Management Ltd (FWM), an appointed representative of 
Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), gave him unsuitable advice to switch two personal pension plans to a 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest with a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
What happened
In 2017 Mr S met with an unregulated introducer to FWM who Ill refer to as DG. 
DG carried out a fact find to record Mr Ss circumstances at the time, his objectives, risk 
profile and investment experience. Its recorded that;
Mr S had two personal pensions with L&G which were invested in With-Profits funds. 
The transfer values of the two plans were around £45,000 and £12,000 respectively.
Mr S wasnt working at the time due to a long-term illness. He rented his home and 
had no other assets. 
He had an attitude to investment risk of lowest medium.
He wanted to access his pension funds as and when he needed. He also wanted 
increased flexibility in line with his attitude to investment risk. 
A suitability report written on FWM headed paper was produced and sent to Mr S. It 
recommended a transfer of both L&G pensions to a SIPP with London & Colonial (L&C). The 
report went on to recommend an investment with a DFM  SVS Securities  in their Income 
Model Portfolio.
The suitability report noted Mr S had the following objectives which formed the basis for 
recommending the transfer. These were;
He wished to consolidate his pensions.
He wanted to take tax free cash (TFC) at age 55 and leave the rest invested as he 
didnt know when he would fully retire.
He wanted a good standard of living in retirement as well as flexibility on how he took 
his income.
Mr S accepted the recommendation. Application forms for the SIPP and investment were 
submitted and the transfer was completed on 1 February 2018. The amount transferred was 
£58,730.12.
On 2 February 2018 £56,306.59 was transferred to SVS to be invested. SVS securities was 
placed in Special Administration on 5 August 2019 and its client book was acquired by ITI 
Capital in June 2020.
ITI Capital returned £18,450.79 to Mr Ss SIPP on 27 September 2022. 
Mr S, through his representative complained to Pi. He said that the advice hed been given 
was unsuitable and had caused him to suffer a financial loss.
Pi said neither FWM nor Pi had given the advice Mr S was complaining about. They said the 
evidence demonstrated that the advice was given by the unregulated introducer  DG - and 
as such they said they werent responsible for the impact of that advice.
Mr S brought his complaint to our Service. Pi didnt think our Service had the authority to 
look into the complaint as they maintained that Mr S wasnt their customer for this advice. Pi 
provided detailed submissions in support of their arguments. In summary they said the 
advice was given solely by DG without the knowledge or the authority of FWM. They say DG 
was acting in an unregulated capacity and didnt have any agreement with Pi to provide 
advice. So, they say they arent responsible for this advice that was given by DG. 
Our investigator looked into things and concluded that there was sufficient evidence to show 
the advice was given by FWM and therefore Pi were responsible for it. So, the advice fell 
within our jurisdiction to consider. Our investigator went on to conclude that the advice was 
unsuitable and asked Pi to put things right. 
Pi disagreed with our investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first of all considered whether our Service has the jurisdiction to consider this complaint. 
Pi maintain that the evidence demonstrates the advice was given by DG who wasnt 
authorised by them to provide advice under their agreement with him or FWM. 
Our rules say that I can consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a firm 
carrying out regulated activities. This also includes activities for which the firm is responsible 
(including the business of any appointed representative or agent for which the firm have 
accepted responsibility) [DISP 2.3].
Theres no dispute that it was DG who met with Mr S and completed the fact-find 
documentation and other paperwork. And Pi claim it was DG and not FWM who provided 
advice to Mr S.
Ive thought carefully about all of the evidence before me along with the arguments that Pi 
has made. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied its most likely FWM advised Mr S to 
switch his pensions and invest through SVS Securities. In the circumstances here, there are 
several things that satisfy me its most likely FWM advised Mr S:
Mr S signed a Client agreement with FWM on 14 September 2017.
A Client Fact Find recorded on FWM headed paper was completed and signed by 
Mr S on 14 September 2017. 
Mr S was provided with a Defaqto research report on the proposed SIPP. At the 
footer of each page, it noted Research report prepared by [HY  the director of 
FWM] using Defaqto Engage.A Pi financial Pension replacement contract form detailing the proposed transfer 
from Mr Ss personal pensions to L&C was completed and signed by him on 15 
October 2017
The SIPP application form, in the section titled 2.1 Financial Adviser Details named 
HY as Mr Ss adviser, gave HYs FWM email address and said that he was working 
for Pi. It also said Yes next to the statement:
Advice given which takes into account the suitability of both Simple Investment SIPP 
and the underlying investment strategy. My/our client is following the advice given:
The advice and annual fee structure were set out in the SIPP application under the 
heading 3. Financial Adviser Remuneration. This stated that a charge of 3.25% of the 
value of any transfer into the SIPP would be applied and a 1% annual fee would be 
paid to Mr Ss adviser. And I can see from the SIPP statement that these fees were 
paid by way of deductions from the fund.
The SIPP application also showed under the heading 4.1 Initial Investments that 
100% of the funds were to be allocated to the Investment Manager SVS Securities.
On 20 October 2017, FWM forwarded the application form for SVS securities to L&C. 
The letter accompanying the paperwork was written on FWM letterheaded paper and 
was signed by FWMs administrator, Ms Y. 
L&C emailed HY on receipt of the application form for Mr S saying Thank you for the 
application for the above client. The email was sent to HY using an alternative email 
address to his FWM email address. But I dont think this changes the fact that it 
shows HY was aware of and involved in the opening of the SIPP. L&C also copied 
HY on the same email address, into an email that it sent to Mr S on 12 January 2018 
confirming the establishment of the SIPP.
L&C emailed HY on his alternative email address on 1 February 2018 confirming that 
theyd received Mr Ss funds and would shortly be paying HY the initial fee of 
£1,908.73. 
A letter from the job centre to Mr S seems to have been certified as a true copy of the 
original on 15 January 2018. It is stamped with HYs name, business address and 
phone number, with a signature. I note that Pi disputes this and says that the 
signature does not resemble the one it has on record for HY, however, on balance I 
think it is more likely than not that this document was certified by HY. I say this 
largely because, as Ive concluded above, FWM were named as Mr Ss advisers in 
the application process. 
So, although I havent seen anything to specifically show that FWM submitted the 
application, Im satisfied that on the balance of probabilities it did, and that FWM were 
involved in the process of making the arrangements for the investment in SVS. 
The suitability letter dated 19 January 2018 clearly showed that advice was given. And Im 
satisfied its most likely HY was aware of the content of this letter and allowed it to be sent in 
his name, even if he didnt draft it himself. I note Pi has questioned the validity of the letter 
and the fact it wasnt signed by HY. But from the evidence Ive detailed above, its clear he, 
in his role with FWM, was involved in what was happening. He was also aware of L&C 
receiving an application from Mr S who was referred to as his client and he was aware he 
was being paid a significant fee from Mr Ss SIPP. If HY wasnt aware of Mr S, or the advice hed been given, its likely HY would have 
questioned these emails and the payments received. But Ive seen no evidence he did that. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think theres enough to reasonably conclude the 
recommendation letter was created and sent without HYs knowledge.
As well as the individual documents I consider the wider circumstances at play here. 
Specifically, Pi were able to provide our Service with all of the key documents typically 
generated during an advice process. Those include a fact-find, client agreement, suitability 
report and application forms all on FWM or Pi headed paperwork. Its difficult to envisage a 
situation where these would be in Pis possession if it wasnt aware of or involved in the 
advice process. Its notable too that theyd received payment for the recommendations 
recorded in those documents. 
My conclusion is therefore, on the balance of probabilities, that HY, in his role as FWM, did 
give advice to Mr S about the transfer to the SIPP. Im also satisfied that he arranged the 
associated investments with SVS Securities. So, in summary, regulated activities were 
carried out by FWM that Pi were ultimately aware of and responsible for.
Having concluded that Pi was ultimately responsible for the advice Mr S received, for ease, 
Ill now refer to Pi when talking about the actions of Pi and FWM.
As our Service has the authority to look into Mr Ss complaint, Ive then gone on to consider 
the merits of his complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint is 
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to a 
designated investment.
The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated businesses like Pi take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and that theyre not 
inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objective and risk profile. 
In order to ensure this was the case here, and that any recommendations met the 
requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, Pi needed to gather the necessary information for it to be 
confident that its advice met Mr Ss objectives and was suitable. They also needed to make 
sure he could financially bear the risks of any recommendation made. 
In 2009 the Financial Services Authority (now FCA) also published a report and checklist for 
pension switching that is still applicable today. That checklist identified four main areas 
where consumers had lost out:  They had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without good reason.
 They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason. This could 
include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity 
rate (GAR) or the right to take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age. 
 They had switched into a pension that does not match their recorded attitude to risk 
(ATR) and personal circumstances.
 They had switched into a pension where there is a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place. 
Theres no evidence that the L&G pensions contained any kind of guarantees that were lost 
during the switch to a SIPP. So, I dont think the switch was unsuitable for that reason. 
However, I think some of the other issues highlighted by the regulator were present in Mr Ss 
switch.
It should have been clear to Pi from the fact-finding exercise they carried out that Mr Ss 
responses indicated he was a low risk, inexperienced investor with no other assets on which 
to rely and someone for whom traditional low-cost pension arrangements would have been 
more appropriate. 
Mr S had existing pension funds of around £58,000. These were his only recorded pensions 
in the fact-find which made it all the more important that they werent subject to undue risk or 
costs that were likely to erode his funds. But Mr S was advised to switch his pensions to a 
SIPP with a DFM arrangement in place. 
Given the relatively modest funds available to Mr S, its unlikely that he wouldve benefited 
from or needed the services of a DFM especially when that was likely to be a more complex 
and expensive arrangement. 
The new SIPP wasnt a low cost or traditional pension arrangement. And the costs 
associated with the SIPP were greater than Mr Ss existing pensions. The overall charges 
associated with Mr Ss L&G pensions were 1% per annum. In contrast the SIPP had an 
initial advice charge of 3.25%, a setup charge of £100, an annual maintenance charge of 
£199, fund charges of 0.75% per annum plus transaction charges, and ongoing advice 
charges of 1% per annum. 
Although there may have been some advantages to taking out a SIPP in the form of greater 
flexibility, Im not persuaded that Mr S, with his modest pension funds and investment 
inexperience, really needed access to a wider range of investments and especially via a 
DFM. And there appears to have been little thought about when and how Mr S would access 
his funds flexibly. 
I say that because Ive seen no evidence that Pi really explored what Mr Ss requirements 
were in retirement and how accessing his benefits flexibly would achieve that. Pi noted Mr S 
had an objective of affording the standard of life he was accustomed to in retirement. But 
they failed to demonstrate how their recommendation helped achieve that objective. Pi also 
didnt explain why they thought Mr S needed TFC at age 55. He had no recorded debts and 
his income appeared to sufficiently cover his expenditure at the time. This is something that 
Id expect Pi to explore and record information about. 
Theres also no evidence Mr S was particularly interested in where his funds were invested 
or that he had the knowledge or experience to understand the additional costs of the DFM 
model and the types of investments that would be made on his behalf.Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S was particularly unhappy with his existing 
arrangement which was already broadly invested in line with his attitude to investment risk. 
But even if Mr S was unhappy, I think its likely that there would have been cheaper 
alternative options, such as a stakeholder pension, that likely would have met his needs. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it ought to have been clear to Pi that there was 
no obvious justification for Mr S to move from his existing pension schemes into a more 
complex and expensive SIPP and the subsequent investment in SVS. 
Pi has argued that SVSs misadministration caused Mr Ss loss, so I have considered this as 
part of my decision. But I remain of the opinion that the root cause of any loss Mr S suffered 
was Pis advice. This is because without Pis involvement in the switch of the pensions and 
investment in the SIPP, Mr S wouldnt have invested in SVS. So, in short, all of Mr Ss loss 
stems from the fact that Pi facilitated the inappropriate switch to the SIPP, which facilitated 
the subsequent investment. 
If Pi still believes that the other parties actions contributed to the losses, it can take these 
concerns up directly with them.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr S would have remained with his previous provider, however I 
cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have 
been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr S' circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr S' investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Pi should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pi should pay into Mr S' pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S' pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S' actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr S £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the fear of 
losing his pension provision and the associated disruption to his retirement plans.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest 
it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr S a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Options 
(L&C) SIPPSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
pension 
switchDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Pi should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. The amount Pi pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Pi is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Pi may require that Mr S provides an undertaking 
to pay Pi any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr S' investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Pi should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Pi will need to determine a fair value for Mr S' investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate 
from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value 
using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr S' risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr S would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Pi Financial Ltd should pay the amount calculated 
as set out above. 
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman