DRN-3190158
The complaint
Miss B has complained that she was unsuitably advised by Central Markets Investment 
Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of her Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), to 
make investments within the scheme including a discretionary managed portfolio and a 
Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG). Miss B is represented by a 
claims management company (CMC) in this complaint.
What happened
In mid 2013 Miss B was aged 54, working in the public sector on a salary of about 
£25,000pa. She had two dependent children. She didnt own her own home or any other 
savings or investments  her CMC says she was at most a low risk investor. She was cold-
called before meetings took place at her home to discuss transferring her Royal London 
pension elsewhere, being told that the destination investments would perform much better 
than her existing plan.
As part of the arrangements to transfer Miss Bs pension, on 7 November 2013 a new 
employer was incorporated; named after the road in which she lives. On 13 November 2013 
she signed terms of business agreeing that CMIM would provide a letter of advice in relation 
to TRG for the purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95).
(For reference, s.36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme such as 
a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the investment is 
satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection (1), so far as 
relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice required under 
this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).)
CMIMs terms of business clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, as it 
related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other 
than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
We also know that Miss B signed an (undated) indicative investment form stating that she 
wanted to invest 50% of her SSAS in Cape Verde and 50% in CMIMs DFM arrangement. 
On 28 November 2013 a SSAS was established by trust deed for Miss Bs new employer 
with her as sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd (CGL) as SSAS administrator. It had an 
annual fee of £500+VAT and was registered with HMRC. 
We know that around this time an introducer firm working with CMIM (Your Choice Pensions 
or YCP) sent letters to prospective candidates for the TRG investment and CMIMs 
Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service. That firm shared directors with Consumer 
Money Matters Limited, who also wrote to Royal London for information about Miss Bs 
pension in October 2013. It was invested in the Managed fund.
We dont have Miss Bs copy of the letter YCP likely sent her, or therefore know precisely 
when it was sent, but we know other clients letters said:
Please find enclosed written advice on your proposed investment into commercial property in 
Cape Verde. This advice has been provided by Central Markets Investment Management Limited 
under your instruction for your consideration.
Both CMIM and Miss B have sent us a copy of what the enclosed written advice  a so-
called dear Trustee letter. The letter does not refer to Miss B by name and mentions that 
the business has been introduced by YCP. It repeats that CMIM is providing the trustee with 
advice that it understands to be unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and 
furthermore, the TRG investment involves direct ownership in property). It goes on:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator 
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion 
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification 
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order 
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to 
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and 
unconnected with it: it proposed an investment in its Global Growth Portfolio. And the 
reference to an exit strategy was that the trustee needed to plan ahead if they wanted to 
draw benefits from the SSAS  in particular purchasing an annuity. 
CMIM went on to summarise its research and view on the suitability of the Cape Verde 
investment, some of which Ive quoted below (with my emphasis). The first three 
paragraphs below were extracted without much alteration from TRGs own key features 
document about the risks of the investment:
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor 
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no 
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly 
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can 
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid 
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice 
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always 
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy 
demand, which cannot be guaranteed.
Investments held overseas may have additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may 
impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and 
commercial risk to the delivery and management of a property/resort. You may wish to take 
independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to 
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss.
You should ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles 
that where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their 
investment. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for diversification carefullyWe have 
not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities and accordingly are not 
providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as against other such 
investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you seek independent 
financial advice
Ultimately, you, as trustee, will take your own decision in the light of your personal 
circumstances, which we have not assessed.Mrs B signed to confirm not only receipt of a copy of this letter but that she agreed with its 
contents, much later on 26 September 2014. This is likely connected with the fact that on 1 
October 2014 she had to agree to a duplicate SSAS being set up because of a dating issue 
with the trust deed and rules of her original SSAS. (She also re-signed CMIMs terms of 
business as well as separate terms for its DFM service on 1 August 2014.) 
On 6 December 2013 CGL then requested a transfer of Miss Bs Royal London policy using 
the forms Consumer Money Matters had obtained and which Miss B had signed. Royal 
London transferred £23,684 to CGL on 7 January 2014. 
CGL has a copy of a signed investment instruction from Miss B dated 7 February 2014, in 
which she refers to advice she has obtained and considered from CMIM on the proposed 
investments; and that she believes CMIM to be appropriately qualified to assess the 
suitability of that investment for the SSAS under s.36 of PA95.
By 20 February 2014 a total of £11,200 had been invested in the Dunas Beach Hotel resort 
of TRG (through an agreement for sale of membership in a UK company limited by 
guarantee). The UK limited company had entered into separate contracts with developers to 
build the property, and to pay a third party to manage it. She had also invested £10,384 into 
CMIMs DFM arrangement. 
Just prior to this, CMIM completed a sheet entitled assessment of appropriateness for 
Cantwell Grove Limited...SSASs. Broadly, a CMIM employee declared that Miss B had 
sufficient knowledge and understanding to make these investments because she had taken 
written advice (from it). They said that the proposed DFM arrangement was appropriate for 
her investment objectives and attitude to risk (involving an instruction to take into account 
existing holdings) because it was diversified.
TRG immediately began paying a regular monthly income of about £65  into Miss Bs SSAS. 
I understand that this would later have reduced and potentially stopped due to the 
unprofitability of the hotel venture.
By March 2015 Miss B seems to have been advised by Organic Investment Management to 
switch the £15,067 she by then had in CMIMs DFM to Organic. A medium-high risk growth 
objective was specified for this with a timeframe of more than ten years. The TRG 
investment and SSAS bank account were also transferred in specie to the duplicate CGL 
SSAS at around the same time.
By April 2019 Miss B still had £11,996 with Organic and £11,200 in TRG, with a minimal 
amount in the SSAS bank account. Organic subsequently got into financial difficulty and 
Miss B has said an IFA is now looking after the DFM part of her portfolio.
Miss Bs CMC complained in December 2019 that CMIMs advice had been unsuitable. 
CMIM didnt respond directly to the complaint so the CMC referred it to our service. CMIM 
has made a number of submissions on this and similar complaints and I summarise these 
below:
Much of its data was lost or corrupted following its IT migration to a new system 
following the decentralisation from its FX trading company in 2017.
CMIM was first approached by an introducer firm, Your Choice Pensions (YCP) in mid- 
2013 and knew customers were in the process of establishing CGL SSASs to invest in 
TRG. It entered into an introducing agent agreement with YCP. Its only financial 
benefit arose out of the opportunity to promote its DFM service for the residual funds. It 
attended numerous meetings with the marketers of the SSAS, including YCP.
At no point did CMIM recommend or influence cautious investors to invest in TRG. It concluded that TRG was risky, only appropriate when considered as part of a diverse 
portfolio of investments where an effective exit strategy was planned. It promoted its 
DFM services as an alternative and/or as diversification  as it was a low risk 
portfolio of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) of major, liquid, equity indices and bonds.
CMIM had no interaction with Miss B or physical handling of any investment, except 
when it received instructions to allocate funds to its DFM service. A full suitability 
check relating to the specific trustee was only carried out at that point. To the best of 
its knowledge all communications were routed through CGL.
The dates trustees received their dear Trustee letter were very close to the date 
stated on the Trust Deed to establish the SSAS. This suggests that no reliance was 
placed on this letter as the trustees had already decided to invest in TRG, and they 
also had their own statutory duties as a trustee to invest prudently.
CGL had told them it would accept the investment (after presumably carrying out its 
own due diligence into TRG), and required them to sign a letter stating they had relied 
on CMIMs advice - without CMIM's knowledge. It deliberately misrepresented CMIM 
as the provider of investment advice that was regulated as a personal 
recommendation and subject to COBS 9 (suitability) in the FCA handbook.
If CMIM had been asked to provide such advice it would have declined, as it did not 
have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS. Its 
terms of business materially differed from those used in FCA-regulated advice.
It accepts that TRG appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment 
scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17), 
although it didnt realise this at the time.
YCP refers to CGL as its partner SSAS Administrator. [G]iven their declaration as 
experts in the field of SSAS pensions, Cantwell Groves lack of consideration of 
[inexperienced investors] as a suitable candidate for a SSAS Pension was both 
reckless and negligent.
After approximately 9 months Miss Bs DFM arrangement moved to Organic 
Investment Management, so CMIM has no responsibility for how she was invested 
after that point.
We put some of CMIMs comments to CGL. It said the following:
- It disputes that it acted as a funnel for communications between CMIM and Miss B. It 
believes CMIMs involvement was co-ordinated from the outset by YCP.
-Prior to consenting to investments, as the scheme administrator, we would fully expect 
that the trustee would consider advice. The investment advice wouldnt necessarily 
need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, it should be from a person or firm 
that has the relevant knowledge and experience.
The investigator also spoke to Miss B directly. She could recall being visited by salespeople 
several times and that this led to the property and DFM investments being made, as she felt 
under pressure to agree to what they said. However she wasnt offered any other incentives 
to make the investments. She felt she could trust the people she spoke to as they said they 
were regulated. She added that she had been contacted by the same people later on (or 
those connected to them) and encouraged to switch those funds which were liquid again. 
In summary, our investigator took the view that CMIM should have advised Miss B not to 
invest in TRG: firstly because it was unsuitable for her as an unsophisticated investor, but 
secondly because to do otherwise would constitute promotion of an unregulated collective 
investment scheme (UCIS) contrary to the restriction on such promotions.
CMIM didnt agree with the investigator. Some of the points it made reiterated its previous 
admissions. The following is a summary of its new points:
The only client relationship was between CGL, its intermediaries and the trustees, who 
received the dear Trustee letters hand-delivered to them in their homes. Naming CMIM gave the pension advice they were giving the intended air of credibility.
The terms of business between CMIM and the trustees was to ensure that they 
understood the purpose of the dear Trustee letter. It plainly was not contracting to 
provide advice that was regulated by the FCA, and denied all liability in such respects. 
So it was not necessary for CMIM to make itself aware of the personal and financial 
circumstances of the trustees or their attitude to risk, except for the DFM investment.
It is a fundamental premise in law that an act of providing negligent advice or 
information is not, in itself, sufficient to determine the cause(s) of financial loss incurred 
by the recipient of that advice. The courts must consider whether such breaches of 
duty of care were the causes of the trustees loss.
As in its view Miss B did not rely upon the dear Trustee letter, it might just as well 
have not existed. That was a view taken by another investigator and so this service 
was not being consistent in its approach.
The dear Trustee letter was general in nature, not addressed to a named recipient 
and, most significantly, not specific as to the actual resort to be invested in or the 
amount of money involved. It contained ample warnings against investing. It was 
equally unreasonable to make a connection that anyone investing in TRG would not 
necessarily regard themselves as someone unneeding of easy access to liquid funds.
Before CMIM became involved, the trustees had already taken a series of positive 
actions to establishing an employer and SSAS under trust deed, and executing all the 
necessary agreements for the SSAS to operate. It cannot be argued that they were 
induced to take any of these actions by CMIM.
The people that promoted TRG to Miss B were the original introducers, and that also 
extended to CGL given the correspondence it prepared for Miss B to authorise the 
investment. It did not extend to CMIM, as its dear Trustee letter did not amount to a 
significant step in her making the investment given the warnings it contained. It also 
encouraged Miss B to seek independent advice from an IFA.
Considering all of the above it was wholly unfair and unjust to attribute Miss Bs loss 
100% to CMIM. CGL described themselves as specialists in the field of SSAS 
pensions, and should be held responsible for Miss Bs losses. They were complicit in 
every step necessary for Miss B to make the investment, and granted their consent to 
it, which it was in their interest to do as they received remuneration from the SSAS.
CMIM also made some observations on redress, which Ill address when I reach that point in 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Miss B to invest in TRG?
Im satisfied that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of advising on investments. This 
is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (amongst other things) as 
advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)
CMIM appears to be suggesting that the advice in this case was not specific enough 
because it didnt refer to the particular hotel, or the amount to be invested. But TRG had the 
characteristics of a UCIS  Miss B would be participating in a (named) pooled property 
scheme where the hotel resort (including shared facilities) would be operated as a whole.
CMIM accepts this was a UCIS. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the 
apartment that TRG denoted Miss Bs investment by to meet that definition.
I dont think there is a plausible argument here that CMIM wasnt, at least, carrying out the regulated activity of advising on investments. As CMIM said, it attended numerous 
preliminary meetings with YCP or CGL and reviewed detailed documentation regarding the 
investment to ensure it was suitable for SSAS investment and as to risk. However, advice 
given in 2014 that wasnt a personal recommendation wasnt caught by chapter 9 of COBS  
the regulators rules governing suitability.
I agree CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation. It said in the terms of 
business that it wasnt giving individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your 
personal financial circumstances. And the end of its dear Trustee letter reminds Miss B that 
it hadnt assessed those circumstances. The FCA definition of a personal recommendation, 
with my emphasis, is:
a recommendation that is advice on investments, or advice on a home finance transaction and 
is presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of 
the circumstances of that person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through 
distribution channels or to the public.
So, the part of the definition before the word or indicates its possible to make a personal 
recommendation without considering that persons specific circumstances - if it is presented 
in such a way that the recipient reasonably believes the firm is endorsing the investment as 
being suitable for them in particular. But if I approach this from Miss Bs position I have to 
take into account that CMIM told her it wasnt making a personal recommendation; she knew 
she hadnt met anyone from CMIM; and no fact finding had been done by it.
On balance, I think Miss B ought to have realised that the dear Trustee letter was a prompt 
for her to consider if she met the circumstances of the person being described in that letter 
as an appropriate investor into TRG. It left her to some of the work: was she cautious or 
more tolerant of risk? Did she require access to the funds during the expected duration of 
the investment? If Miss B felt she met those criteria I can see why CMIMs advice would 
have carried more weight to her than one issued to the public at large: after all, she had 
personally contracted with CMIM for it to provide this advice. But that doesnt of itself mean it 
was truly a personal recommendation, and Im not persuaded that it was.
If theres no personal recommendation, COBS 9 doesnt apply. But that also isnt the end of 
this complaint. CMIM has still given advice in the dear Trustee letter, which isnt negated by 
it separately encouraging her to seek further independent advice. If it thought she was better 
off doing that then in my view it shouldnt have advised her at all. And its open to me to 
consider whether its advice is consistent with the regulators wider principles (set out at 
PRIN in the rulebook), and other COBS rules that arent in chapter 9.
Ill return to these later in my decision. But first, its important to note that as TRG was a 
UCIS, the restrictions to promotion at s.238 FSMA would also apply.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Miss B, ancillary to its advice?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words 
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of 
FSMA. Under the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
had the characteristics of an invitation, essentially because it seems other third parties had 
already invited Miss B to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went 
on to say this about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead 
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the 
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to 
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under s.21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Miss B had already decided to invest in TRG, so the dear 
Trustee letter would not have been pivotal in her thinking. However I dont think this is 
relevant to what CMIMs intent was, as highlighted above. The FCA clarified this further at 
PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a 
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an 
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of 
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may 
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances 
at the time the communication was made:
( 1 ) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the 
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
( 2 ) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in 
investment activity.
Its clear that the dear Trustee letter was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. 
A reasonable conclusion to be drawn was that only trustees who were cautious and/or 
needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I think CMIM would have 
known this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients to draw, in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term;
- the risks CMIM highlighted in the letter were being mitigated by the strategy it was 
proposing to diversify their investment with a DFM arrangement held alongside it;
- no indication being given to the trustee to understand whether they met this cautious 
definition.
In relation to the final point, CMIM says that was why it encouraged Miss B to take her own 
regulated advice. In my view that doesnt explain why it set out its letter in a way that allowed 
her to infer that she could go ahead without that advice if she wasnt cautious or needing 
short-term access to funds. I also dont think its a coincidence that the dear Trustee letter 
was written in this way. CMIM stood to gain business from being able to provide DFM 
services, if a trustee went ahead with the TRG part of the investment.
It would have been apparent to CMIM that other third parties had quite a lot of influence over 
what the trustees did, as this is the basis of much of its arguments now. So, it was unlikely to 
receive the DFM business if its advice tended to discourage the investment in TRG. I think 
that, given this clear intention, CMIMs dear Trustee letter was a significant step in 
persuading Miss B to make the investment. Notwithstanding CMIMs observations about how 
much attention Miss B paid to it at the time, she then signed an investment instruction 
declaring that she had regard for it in making her investment decision. If CMIM didnt realise 
this is what would follow then it should have done, given it said it was giving its advice for the 
purposes of PA95.
Whether or not (in CMIMs view) Miss B was simply signing where a third party told her 
shouldnt in my view have diminished that this was a highly significant step. It made CMIMs 
advice an inducement that meant it was promoting the investment. CMIM seems to have 
taken the view that both YCP (who were likely involved in this case given the wider 
circumstances) and CGL were inducing Miss B to invest because of vested interests, yet it 
was not. That simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
My view that this was a promotion is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014 FCA 
revised the list of exemptions at COBS 4.12.4R to clarify that a personal recommendation 
on a non-mainstream pooled investment could, as a promotion, qualify for an exemption in certain specified (and limited) circumstances. This underlines that advising on (and not just 
personally recommending) an investment can also amount to a promotion: the very nature of 
promotion means that it does not have to be targeted to a specific individual.
That is what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment (even though 
YCP may also have promoted it originally, and even though didnt make a personal 
recommendation).
Did Miss B qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion? 
Miss B is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria set out in the FSMA (Promotion of
Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because she didnt appear to be
a high net worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as 
required under the regulations) and has not been suggested since. This leaves the range of 
exemptions set out at COBS 4.12.1R, most of which werent available because Miss B 
doesnt appear to have been a high net worth or sophisticated investor and didnt have any 
of the other professions or roles specified.
The remaining COBS exemptions were slightly altered on 1 January 2014. We dont know 
when the dear trustee letter was delivered to Miss B, except that I think its most likely she 
received it before she issued her investment instructions to CGL on 7 February 2014  and 
simply signed to confirm receipt of it later on, potentially as part of a record keeping exercise 
when her SSAS was being duplicated. And in any case, Im not persuaded the precise date 
of receipt of this letter makes a difference to whether she qualified for a relevant exemption.
If it was before 1 January 2014, the only other relevant COBS exemption was a Category 2 
person, being both someone:
for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective 
investment scheme is suitable; and
who is an 'established' or 'newly accepted' client of the firm or of a person in the same group 
as the firm
Miss B was not an established client of CMIM, and explanatory notes confirm that a newly 
accepted client required a written agreement relating to designated investment business (i.e. 
activities which were regulated by the FCA). Miss Bs agreement with CMIM specifically 
excluded such regulated activities, so she could not have met the definition of a newly 
accepted client.
If it was after 1 January 2014, the new exemption for solicited advice only allowed a 
promotion where the communication met all of the following requirements:
(a) the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal 
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for advice on 
the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other communication from 
the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to influence the client in 
relation to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Note 3 essentially said that anyone with a business relationship with the firm including an 
introducer or appointed representative, is connected to it. So its clear that YCPs introducer 
agreement with CMIM would always have made this exclusion unavailable too.
The only reasonable conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully 
promoted the TRG investment to Miss B, in contravention of s.238 of FSMA. Moreover it 
ought reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the investment to  
Miss B previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they were 
themselves unregulated and/or couldnt rely on a valid exemption either.CMIMs position that Miss B paid no attention to or was misled by the dear Trustee letter
CMIM believes CGLs reference to the dear Trustee letter was intentionally misleading, as it 
encouraged Miss B to confirm that she believed CMIM to be an appropriately qualified 
adviser for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect Miss B thought shed received 
suitability advice. I dont find this misleading to the extent that it would materially alter 
CMIMs culpability, as this pre-supposes that Miss B would have understood the difference 
between advice and suitability advice.
Miss B was a lay-trustee, which CMIM knew, and unsophisticated in financial matters. So I 
think the most she would have reasonably understood was that she was getting an
appropriately qualified opinion on whether she should include TRG in her SSAS (or in 
laymans terms and as implied by s.36 of PA95, its suitability for her SSAS). I cant see that 
Miss B misunderstood CMIMs role if it now considers it wasnt appropriately qualified to give 
that advice. And at a fundamental level, I dont think her inclination (or otherwise) to read the 
dear Trustee letter materially alters the outcome because, as Ive set out above:
Whether something counts as an inducement depends in part on how it would be 
received by a reasonable person; not necessarily someone (Miss B) that CMIM 
considers wasnt inclined to read the letter.
Whether it was also a significant step in securing the investment is largely answered 
by the fact CGL required Miss B to take this advice, irrespective of the level of 
attention she paid to it.
So, its plainly wrong to say that this letter might just as well have not existed, as the 
investment in my view was promoted unlawfully - and that fundamentally affects the 
outcome of the complaint.
CMIM says its name was used to give the arrangements an air of credibility. But in my view 
it should have gone into this with its eyes open. It attended meetings with the other parties 
involved where a whole sales and marketing strategy was apparently discussed to attract 
new clients to invest in TRG. Yet it now says it should have been obvious to CGL that those 
clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. These arguments actually serve to 
demonstrate very well why CMIM shouldnt have got involved in inducing Miss Bs 
investment into TRG at all. It knew that none of the other parties in the transaction were 
regulated by the FCA and it could not, as a result, expect them to share its duty of care to 
clients.
What should CMIM have done instead?
In addition to the FCA Principles, CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best 
interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading). These COBS rules were not part of chapter 9 (suitability) and still 
applied if CMIM was advising on investments.
In any event, its just as difficult to see how advice that was stated in the terms of business to 
enable a trustee to make investment decisions for her SSAS under s.36 of PA95 could not 
be personalised to that trustee. PA95 itself makes references to suitability and 
diversification, and says other regulations may specify further criteria. Owing to its small 
size, most of the regulations in the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 
2005 dont cover Miss Bs SSAS. But regulation 7 does and this states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to 
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the 
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme.This precise wording was reflected in the investment instructions CGL required Miss B to 
sign. And I cant fairly say it was possible for Miss B to obtain advice on whether TRG was 
suitable, and provided adequate diversification for the circumstances of her SSAS, without a 
recommendation being made specifically in respect of the requirements and objectives of 
that SSAS.
Amongst the FCAs Principles, CMIM was required to:
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions
for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
I have significant concerns about an arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant it 
could only track who the end recipients of its dear Trustee letter in respect of TRG were if 
YCP remembered to pass on a trustees signed copy of its terms of business, or it later 
heard from them because theyd signed up for its DFM service. That calls into question 
whether CMIM was adhering to Principle 3. I also think Principle 9 is particularly apt here, as 
it refers to the care CMIM should take in formulating advice (whether thats a personal 
recommendation or not).
In observance of these principles and rules, I think there were only really two routes CMIM 
could reasonably take:
1.Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore 
come into contact with clients like Miss B at all; or
2.Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
Take reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Miss B, which was 
tailored to her specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard 
to her best interests and treat her fairly.
Note that if the recommendation was not to invest, this would not amount to 
promotion and so the restriction wouldnt be breached.
Ensure it issued that recommendation to Miss B directly, rather than supplying it 
via third parties (where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach 
Miss B, if the advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two 
routes might have been. Clearly no third party could make CMIM give advice that was 
positively in favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved or wanted to 
ensure it made direct personal recommendations, I accept its possible that those parties 
would have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable 
outcome. However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Miss B was required 
to take couldnt be given by just any adviser. s.36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
(a) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated 
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given by a 
person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of that Act 
(prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
(b) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be 
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust schemesWhether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it 
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice 
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. And I would also expect any regulated 
adviser to be as mindful of the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So 
they too should have considered the position on promotion; whether a personal 
recommendation would be expected by the regulator; and the consequences of them giving 
advice in favour of investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising Miss B at all, and it chose not to 
take that route. So I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held to the standard of a 
proper personal recommendation that it should have given to Miss B to satisfy the regulators 
expectations and those of PA95.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should 
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. 
So it ought to have known that investment in UCIS (particularly for an unsophisticated retail 
investor) shouldnt take up more than a small part of the investors overall assets  if their 
attitude to risk even allows them to make such an investment at all.
Ive taken into account the CMCs assertion that Miss B was of a low risk nature, but also the 
fact that her existing pension was in the Managed fund (broadly a mixture of shares and 
bonds that would sit more commonly in the medium risk bracket). And, even if encouraged 
by the same third parties who solicited her TRG and CMIM investments, she was also willing 
to select medium-high risk for her Organic portfolio. 
As the evidence of her attitude to risk is not entirely consistent I also note that she had little 
investment experience and a modest amount of pension provision, giving her low capacity to 
absorb losses. There was nothing about TRG in particular  being an off-plan, offshore 
property development subject to a variety of currency, counterparty, construction and 
occupancy risks to counter the presumption that it would be unsuitable for someone with an 
attitude to risk that was, in all likelihood, only up to the medium level and no higher.
Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS being promoted to Miss B was in order to 
invest in TRG. And looking at the timeframes involved in this case, and from my experience 
of other cases, I think its likely at the time Miss B received CMIMs dear Trustee letter, 
Royal London was still in the process of transferring the funds or those funds could have 
been returned if she changed her mind. Im certainly satisfied on the balance of probabilities 
that Miss B hadnt yet issued her investment instructions to invest in TRG and the DFM 
portfolio at the point she received the letter - as that was the whole point of the letter. So I 
need to consider how she would have acted, if CMIM had made a proper personal 
recommendation that didnt involve TRG.
To secure the TRG investment the third parties involved needed advice in favour of it to 
comply with PA95 and as I said above I think its reasonable to conclude that other 
regulated firms should also have advised against TRG. CGL told this service the advice 
wouldnt necessarily need to come from a regulated adviser, but Im mindful that an 
unauthorised firm recommending a collective investment scheme would be committing an 
actionable offence under FSMA. 
That would in my view make such a firm difficult to find, and their advice would in any event 
carry less credibility. They might also have expected an unauthorised firm to play further into 
the checks Royal London should have been carrying out to mitigate against pension 
liberation/scams  such as asking her if she was being advised by a regulated adviser.From what I can see in this case, Miss B didnt have particularly close ties to making the 
investment. She had simply been cold-called and agreed to invest under pressure from a 
salesperson in her home. As CMIM itself realises, it was brought on board to legitimise Miss 
Bs investment in TRG. But its advice should have far from legitimised the investment. It 
should have made very clear that it was unsuitable for Miss B. 
So, once CMIM had properly advised Miss B  as s.36 of PA95 anticipated  I cant safely 
say it could easily have been undone by any attempts to refer Miss B to other advisers. Im 
satisfied the more likely outcome is that any further attempts to secure Miss Bs TRG 
investment would have failed in the light of CMIMs advice. As a result, she would have been 
in a position to unwind the instruction to transfer her Royal London plan or at the very least, 
avoid investing in TRG and the unnecessarily complex DFM arrangement.
Should I only apportion part of Miss Bs losses to CMIM?
CMIM says that CGL was reckless and negligent given its professed level of experience. I 
understand the argument that it should have been apparent to CGL that the dear Trustee 
letter couldnt satisfy the requirements (which it identified itself) of PA95. I didnt know 
whether Miss B intends to complain about CGLs actions as administrator, but occupational
schemes arent within the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. In any case there is a 
higher bar against financial advisers, and this is reflected in the way they are regulated and 
rules they must follow. So its also understandable that Miss B has chosen to bring this 
complaint to us.
CMIM also says that Miss Bs own responsibilities as a trustee should be taken into account, 
but a trustee is just as entitled to appropriate advice as any consumer of financial services. 
CMIM was providing FCA-regulated advice to Miss B as the sole lay-trustee and, equally, 
had an opportunity to check for itself what the requirements of PA95 were. If it couldnt do 
that, it shouldnt have given the advice. I cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for me allow CMIM to avoid the consequences of its own failings, even in part.
I agree that if I were satisfied that Miss B would have chosen to transfer and invest in TRG 
come what may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating her 
to CMIM. Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say 
that on the balance of probabilities Miss B would still have gone ahead with transferring her 
pension and investing in TRG and the DFM arrangement (both of which CMIM 
recommended as a package), had CMIM treated her fairly.
Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Miss B would not have made these 
investments. I think the effect of CMIM placing a barrier in her way would have been more 
likely to deter her ultimate investment than not. I think its likely she would have heeded the 
proper advice she was told she would get, and was entitled to expect, from CMIM.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that the aim in awarding fair compensation should be to put 
Miss B in the position she would have been in, had she not gone ahead with the transfer 
from Royal London to the SSAS  or alternatively and if this is not possible, to give her the 
performance of an investment similar to that she previously had with Royal London (which 
was in a Managed fund).
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore contact Royal London to 
obtain a notional value for Miss Bs former policy as at the date of my final decision, 
assuming that it continued to be invested in the same funds it was at the point it was 
transferred out. As a condition of accepting this decision, Miss B will need to give CMIM her 
authority to obtain this information. The actual value of Miss Bs CGL SSAS (including the current proceeds of the DFM 
arrangements used) as at the date of my final decision should be deducted from the notional 
value to arrive at Miss Bs initial loss amount. (Any currently outstanding administration 
charges yet to be applied to the CGL SSAS should be removed from the actual value first.)
If any part of the CGL SSAS has been transferred elsewhere under new advice, the value of 
those proceeds as at the date of my final decision will also need to be included in the actual 
value  as I dont consider Miss B would have needed to seek new advice to recover from 
the demise of Organic had she not followed CMIMs advice in the first place. CMIM should 
also check that no tax-free cash or income payments have been taken from the SSAS or any 
successor plan: if they have, the gross amounts of these payments will need to be allowed 
for accordingly from the notional value also to give a like-for-like comparison.
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market). That seems to be the case with the TRG holding in the 
CGL SSAS. Therefore as part of calculating compensation in respect of the TRG value:
CMIM should agree an amount with CGL SSAS as a commercial value for this 
investment, then pay the sum agreed to CGL SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. The actual value used in the calculations should include 
anything CMIM has paid to CGL SSAS. The fractional ownership company through 
membership of which Miss B holds the TRG investment should be consulted to 
achieve this.
Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy the investment from CGL SSAS it should give 
them a nil value as part of determining the actual value. In that event its also fair that 
Miss B should not be disadvantaged while she is unable to close down the CGL 
SSAS and move to a potentially cheaper arrangement. Third parties are involved and
we dont have the power to tell them what to do. So to provide certainty to all parties I 
think its fair that CMIM adds five years worth of future SSAS administration fees at 
the current tariff to the initial loss amount, to allow a reasonable period of time for the 
CGL SSAS to be closed.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the 
TRG investment, or agree a value with CGL (which is more than nil value), even if its not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS. As there appears to be no market for the 
investment I dont consider its fair to use a value that is the opinion of someone who is not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS.
I also cannot anticipate whether TRG and/or the fractional membership company will be 
permitting changes of ownership because clearly legal processes would be involved. But to 
the extent that this is possible, CMIM will have benefited from the value it thinks is in the 
investment by buying it out of the SSAS. But if CMIM is unable to take ownership of the 
investment, it may ask Miss B instead to provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment in future.
The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery of Miss Bs losses. If CMIM wishes to 
do this the undertaking should be drawn up after compensation is paid  and CMIM will need 
to meet any associated costs. It is not my role to set the terms of the assignment and 
undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in achieving overall fairness for both parties. If 
CMIM asks Miss B to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may 
be made dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensation
If there is an overall loss, CMIM should pay into the CGL or any successor SSAS, to 
increase its value by the initial loss amount. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. CMIM shouldnt pay into the SSAS if this will conflict 
with any tax protections or allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the CGL or successor SSAS, it should pay it 
direct to Miss B. But had it been possible to pay into the SSAS, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the initial loss amount should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Miss B is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
But if she is yet to take her tax-free cash sum, the adjustment would only apply to 75% of the 
compensation, giving a composite reduction of 15% overall.
CMIM must also pay Miss B £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption 
caused to her retirement planning. Details of the calculation should be provided to Miss B in 
a clear, simple format.
If Royal London cannot provide a notional value
As Ive said above, I think a notional value based on Royal Londons Managed fund would 
be most representative of the type of investment Miss B would have gone on to make after 
getting proper advice from CMIM. Either because she would have had time to cancel or 
reverse the transfer from Royal London, or because it would be an adequate proxy for more 
appropriate investments she could have made within the SSAS at her risk level, instead of 
TRG and the DFM arrangement.
However if Royal London cant provide a notional value, CMIM will need to use a benchmark 
to provide a fair value for one or both of the policies, and switch that for the notional value in 
its calculations. I consider that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Index on a Total 
Return basis would most closely align with Miss Bs likely attitude to risk and/or how the 
Royal London plan would have continued to perform.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure 
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. It doesnt mean that 
Miss B would specifically have made investments that exactly mirrored the return on this 
benchmark. For that reason CMIM should not be deducting investment costs or other 
charges from the benchmark. The view Im taking here is that the sort of funds Miss B would 
have invested in (if a notional value isnt available) would typically have performed broadly in 
line with this benchmark, notwithstanding the charges. It is a proxy that is being used for the 
purposes of compensation.
Im also satisfied the losses or gains in the DFM portfolio form part of Miss Bs overall loss. I 
note the points CMIM has made about the steps it took to ensure that its own DFM portfolio 
was appropriate, which it cannot vouch for in the subsequent reinvestment. But Ive reached 
the conclusion that Miss B would have had no reason to be using a DFM arrangement at all 
if it hadnt been presented to her as a combined package with TRG  and I dont think it 
likely Royal London would have permitted DFM in the type of plan Miss B held.
So, including the present-day DFM value in the calculation is part of putting Miss B back into 
the position she would have been in, had CMIM not acted as it did. And that includes the 
subsequent changes of DFM provider as these were either encouraged by the very same 
third parties which CMIM had agreed to get involved with, or were necessitated by the 
demise of a subsequent provider.
In all of the circumstances above I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM responsible for 100% of Miss Bs loss. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to 
recover any of the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an 
assignment of Miss Bs rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above- 
mentioned undertaking, if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Bs complaint and require Central Markets Investment Management Limited to 
pay her compensation as set out in the Putting things right section above. If Miss B accepts 
this decision and compensation is not paid within 28 days of CMIM being notified of her 
acceptance, interest must be added to my award at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date of the final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman