DRN-2640522
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Inchcape Retail Limited (Inchcape) gave him misleading sales 
information about a cosmetic repair insurance policy for his car.
 
What happened
Mr W says he was sold a cosmetic repair policy when he bought a car in July 2016. He says 
the salesman told him that the policy would cover all eventualities and retain the car to 
showroom condition. But Mr W says that when he later tried to claim on his policy Inchcape 
declined on the grounds that scratches over 30 cm werent covered.  
Mr W also says that when he was selling his car in 2019, the buyer reduced the price they 
would pay by £679.50 because of the cosmetic damage that hadnt been fixed.
Inchcape reviewed his complaint. They were unable to confirm the details around the 
purchase of the insurance, as the dealership involved was no longer connected to them. But 
they said they were confident that their sales adviser wouldve discussed the regulated 
products with Mr W at the point of sale. So they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that there was evidence that Mr W had 
received his policy documents. And that hed made a successful claim following the process 
detailed in those documents. So she didnt think the policy had been miss-sold.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view. So the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As some of the evidence for this complaint is contradictory and inconclusive I think I need to 
decide what happened on the balance of probabilities. That is what I think is most likely to 
have happened given the evidence I do have and the wider circumstances. 
Its not in dispute that Mr W was provided with the policy documents. Inchcape have 
confirmed these were sent to the correct e-mail address on 11 July 2016, two days after 
purchase of the policy. Mr W also confirmed they were provided to him in paper form.
However, Mr W says that the sales person: did not take me through these but advised 
verbally as previously advised that the policy was to ensure the car maintain a showroom 
finish at no point did he inform me of any restriction.
The policy was for minor cosmetic damage. It defines this as:
Minor Cosmetic Damage means a Chip, Minor Dent, Light Scratch or Scuffed Bumper where 
the total damaged area is no larger than 30cm in diameter or 3mm in depth (in the case of a 
Chip(s) is no larger than 1.5cm in diameter or 3mm in depth).
So the terms and conditions for the policy are clear about what size of scratch is covered. 
Inchcape confirmed they didnt have access to the specific documents, but said: at the time 
of the purchase all customers were taken through a Statement of Demands and Needs to 
confirm eligibility and suitability of the vehicle and the customer for each of the insurance
product sold by Inchcape at the time. This would have also confirmed costs, claims limits 
and would have indicated the intent to purchase by the customer. (ticking a Yes/No box) if 
applicable for each product.
Finally the customer would have been asked to sign the declaration which confirmed that the 
customer had been provided with policy summaries which would have included exclusions 
etc. The completion of the Demands and Needs was an integral part of our regulatory 
process and was heavily audited to ensure compliance. It also acted and a mechanism for 
admin to invoice all products the customer had agreed to purchase at the correct costs. 
The fact that an invoice was produced would lead me to believe that this process was 
completed in full, including the signing of the declaration by the customer.
Ive seen the invoice that was produced following the sale of the policy to Mr W.   
Mr W says he was told in person that the policy would cover all eventualities. I dont 
disbelieve Mr W. But Ive not seen any independent evidence to show this is what the 
salesman said. 
Inchcape have explained what their process was for selling the cosmetic repair policy. Based 
on everything Ive seen, it seems likely that this process wouldve been followed for Mr W. 
So Im sorry to disappoint him, but I cant fairly decide he was miss-sold the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman