DRN-2351403
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA), trading as Fiat Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs T, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs T acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCA, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs T. This was a 
brand-new car and I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Im persuaded there most probably was a fault with this car as see Mrs T broke down and 
received some help from the police to free her clutch and that the vehicle needed recovering. 
The relevant legislation says that as the fault happened so soon after Mrs T took receipt of 
the car it is to be assumed that the fault was present at the point of supply. 
If the fault had occurred within the first 30 days the relevant legislation may have supported 
Mrs Ts rejection of the car. But that wasnt the case, and, in those circumstances, the law 
allows FCA an opportunity to fix the problem.
Whilst they were unable to diagnose the problem I can see that they performed some 
remedial tasks such as topping up the clutch oil reservoir. Ive not seen evidence that the 
fault has reoccurred, so I think its fair to suggest the repair that was attempted has probably 
been successful.
Mrs T has explained that the car was ready for her to collect after four weeks but that she 
didnt collect it for another ten days as she wasnt happy with FCAs resolution. I dont think 
its fair to ask FCA to take any action about those ten days as it appears that they have 
taken the action that was required of them to ensure any issue with the car was put right. 
Mrs T was provided with a courtesy car whilst her car was off the road so I can see that FCA 
kept her mobile.
But this wasnt the car Mrs T wanted to drive and I think FCA therefore needed to 
compensate Mrs T for the lack of enjoyment of the vehicle she was financing and for the 
distress and inconvenience the repair caused.
Theyve offered to pay her £228.08 in respect of that and, on balance, I think thats 
reasonable. I wont therefore, be asking FCA to take any additional action.
I can see that Mrs T had some concerns about the service she received from the dealership 
and about her breakdown cover. These arent issues I can reasonably hold FCA responsible 
for and shell therefore need to raise those complaints with the businesses in question.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman