DRN-2266312
The complaint
Mrs R, who is represented by her husband, complains that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) unfairly 
blocked her bank account. And despite her explanations, TSB failed to give her access to 
her money. She says the matter has caused her distress and that she has been 
discriminated against.   
What happened
In February 2019, after conducting a review, TSB blocked Mrs Rs bank account. Mrs R 
contacted TSB to find out why her account was blocked. TSB asked her to provide it with 
proof of entitlement to the money in the account. 
TSB say Mrs R came into one of its branches on 13 April 2019 with bank statements and 
information to demonstrate proof of entitlement. TSB says Mrs R told it the funds in the 
account had come from her father. 
Later, on 18 April 2019, following a further review, TSB say it asked Mrs R for more 
information. It says it asked Mrs R why her father had transferred substantive funds into her 
account, what the funds were for and questioned her about the beneficiary she had sent 
money onto. 
TSB say that in May 2019, Mrs R said the funds had come from her husbands account. And 
that he had done so to take advantage of the cheaper charges TSB offered for onward 
international transfers. 
TSB didnt accept these reasons, and on 14 May 2019 asked Mrs R further questions. 
Namely, why she had originally said the money was from her father and why would the funds 
need to go through her account to be transferred internationally. And TSB once again 
questioned her on who the beneficiary was. 
Mrs R then complained about this matter to TSB. In June 2019, TSB sent Mrs R its final 
response. TSB didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint and amongst other things it said: 
it hadnt discriminated against Mrs R;
that she had not provided it with enough information to explain how she was entitled 
to the funds;
her account would remain blocked; 
TSB suggested Mrs R makes an appointment at her local branch along with her 
husband to try and resolve the matter 
Unhappy with TSBs answer, Mrs R referred her complaint to this service.  
In March 2020, Mrs R provided bank statements to TSB from her husbands account. She 
was then asked a series of other questions and was told that her husbands statements 
would need to be certified.  
Later in March 2020, after speaking to a manager at a TSB branch, a decision was made to 
release Mrs Rs funds. TSB also gave her notice that her account would be closed in 60 
days. 
Mrs R withdraw her funds from her TSB account in April 2020. 
Our investigator looked into the matter, and they said: 
TSB had not acted unfairly by blocking Mrs Rs account because it has ongoing 
regulatory obligations to fulfil;
that in August 2019, Mrs R had emailed TSBs complaints team providing answers to 
the questions it had asked in its final response letter of June 2019. And as TSB had 
not acted on this information by sending it to the relevant team, this caused avoidable 
delay to Mrs Rs funds being released;
Because of the delay, our investigator said TSB should pay Mrs R 8% simple interest 
from when Mrs R sent the email in August 2019 up to the date the funds were 
released
Mrs Rs representative accepted our investigators outcome, and amongst other things 
highlighted that his wife had felt discriminated against. TSB did not agree with our 
investigators conclusions. In summary it said: 
as Mrs Rs email didnt request for it be forwarded to the team considering the 
account restriction, it wasnt unreasonable for TSBs complaints department to 
presume Mrs R had already provided this information to the account restriction team;
TSBs final response letter did not give any timescales for reviewing information 
added to Mrs Rs complaint, or for responding to additional correspondence;
the final response letter also set out that to resolve the matter Mrs R ought to make 
an appointment at her local TSB branch to discuss the matter further;
that TSB still needed further paperwork to establish proof of entitlement but instead 
Mrs R chose to email with a written response;
And even if this email was passed to the relevant team to consider, it would not have 
resulted in the removal of the blocks because Mrs R needed to provide paperwork in 
the branch  given thats what happened for the blocks to be removed 
It follows that the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator for the pretty much 
the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Account restrictions 
Ive carefully considered the information both TSB and Mrs R have given me. And having 
done that Im satisfied TSB has done nothing wrong in restricting Mrs Rs account. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. Having looked at the activity on Mrs Rs account and the information that she provided when the account was opened, I understand 
why TSB had some concerns.
TSB say it was initially told by Mrs R the funds were from her father which she later changed 
to her husband. This seems unusual. Its entirely possible that theres a reasonable 
explanation for this. The notes from when the account was opened relay her husband would 
send her money, and in view of Mrs Rs ability to effectively communicate, its possible there 
was a misunderstanding when she was questioned - in that the money was to be sent to her 
family, which includes her father.
Discrimination 
Mrs R has said thats she felt an element of discrimination from TSB in the way it has treated 
her. This is a serious allegation, and I have carefully considered it when looking into the 
information I have had from both parties. And having done that, I havent seen any evidence 
that this is what happened. I havent seen that she was treated any differently than another 
customer wouldve been treated in the same circumstances.
did TSB cause an avoidable delay? 
I note TSB strongly disagrees with what our investigator has said about the delays that could 
have been avoided had Mrs Rs email response to complaint correspondence been acted 
upon. But having weighed this matter up, I agree TSB could have substantially reduced the 
time it took for Mrs Rs funds to have been released - and the matter couldve been resolved 
much sooner. 
I say that because Mrs Rs email shows a detailed response to the questions TSB asked her 
to answer in May 2019, and then in its final response of June 2019. 
To my mind, this information at the very least would have led to TSB either asking relevant 
follow up questions, or narrowing down what paperwork it needed, and what the conditions 
to that were. 
Indeed the email response from Mrs R to the complaint team asks the question why a letter 
from Mrs Rs husbands bank wasnt good enough. And given that certified information from 
Mrs Rs husbands bank proved to be a key piece of information to release the funds later 
on, Im persuaded that acting on the email response wouldve made a significant difference 
in Mrs R receiving her funds much sooner than she did.
I note TSB feel it didnt have to act on Mrs Rs email to the complaints team. And that it 
wasnt unreasonable to presume Mrs R had already presented its contents to the correct 
team handling the account restriction. 
But I dont agree with this. Mrs R clearly thought she was dealing with employees of TSB 
who were dealing with the matter. I think its reasonable for Mrs R to expect a response to an 
email, which was about the account restriction, would be acted on. Even if that meant the 
email was forwarded onto another team. 
In my experience consumers dont always perceive a bank to be an organisation split into 
many departments but think anyone who they are speaking to about any issue is able to help  or relay that message. I dont think this is unreasonable  especially so for someone with a 
communication barrier, which TSB ought to have taken account of
I note our investigator said Mrs Rs email response to TSBs complaints team was in 
August 2019. But from what Ive seen, the earliest I can say this email could have been sent 
was the 25 September 2019. Thats when the email was dated. 
Our investigator also said that TSB should pay 8% simple interest from the date this email 
was sent, to the date Mrs Rs funds were released. I dont think this is quite right given it 
would likely have taken at least a couple of weeks for the information in the email to be 
digested and then follow up actions communicated to Mrs R by TSB. 
It follows that I think TSB should pay 8% simple interest on the amount of funds held in 
Mrs R account from the 10 October 2019 until the funds were released to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
TSB Bank Plc should put things right by paying 8% simple interest on the amount of funds 
held in Mrs Rs account from the 10 October 2019 until the funds were released to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Ombudsman