DRN-3315643
The complaint
Miss P complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) didnt give 
her enough information during an application for a loan.
What happened
In September 2020, Miss P applied for a personal loan with Tesco through a comparison 
website. When applying she was redirected to Tesco's site to progress the application 
through its loan application system. The system then identified her as a possible existing 
customer and asked her to finish the application on the phone. 
Miss P says she:
- wasnt told that, because she already had a loan with Tesco, it could only be a 
consolidation loan rather than a second, additional loan which is what she wanted. 
- didnt therefore have a clear legal understanding of credit search she was agreeing to 
or the product she was applying for. 
- wouldnt have agreed to the credit search which was then carried out by Tesco if 
shed been given accurate information. 
- is concerned disadvantaged applicants may not understand the search being carried 
out on their credit file and impact of this or feel their only option is to consolidate a 
loan and pay additional interest.
Miss P thinks Tesco acted in this way because of the interest on interest payments they will 
receive on the consolidated loans.
Miss P complained about these things to Tesco. It didnt uphold her complaint and 
responded to make the following points.
- Although its website could be more explicit about the fact it doesnt offer second 
loans, existing customers are directed through a different process to borrow more 
money. 
- When a customer applies for a loan through the process intended for new customers, 
a search of its systems is carried out using the applicants details (name, date of birth 
and address). If the information fails to match the details for an existing account, an 
application progresses to the stage of having a credit search.
- Although Miss P already had a Tesco loan, it was registered at a different address 
and so the system allowed the application to progress to a credit search. Had Miss 
Ps address had been updated, its system wouldve stopped the application before 
the credit search. Its Miss Ps responsibility to keep her personal details up to date 
with Tesco and, as it hadnt received any requests to update her address, it didnt 
agree it was at fault. 
Although Tesco didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint, it agreed to pass on the feedback to the 
relevant department and, after further correspondence, and as a gesture of goodwill, to 
remove the credit search.
Miss P didnt accept this. She felt, regardless of whether her address on the existing loan 
was correct, Tesco initiated a credit search without telling her the terms of it. This is because 
she was only eligible for a consolidation loan and a credit search was performed under these 
terms. Miss P brought the matter to our service for an independent review. 
An investigator considered the matter and didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. She 
acknowledged the guidance on Tescos site asking anyone with an existing loan to phone 
them first if they want to borrow more money wouldnt have been available to Miss P as she 
applied through a comparison site. However, as Miss Ps address had changed since the 
original loan application, this wasnt picked up until additional checks were carried out as the 
application progressed to a credit search. Even so, as Tesco ultimately agreed to remove 
the credit search she felt this was a reasonable response to the complaint.
Miss P didnt agree her complaint had been dealt with fairly. Whilst Tescos own site may 
outline the details of their policy for people with existing Tesco loans, she didnt feel this was 
relevant as shed been redirected from a comparison site. In relation to the address change, 
Miss P challenged this as:
- the investigator inferred Miss P hadnt updated her address rather than accept the 
possibility Tesco couldve made an error.
- Even if their details arent up to date, Tescos customer journey should enable 
applicants to understand the product theyre applying for and give informed consent 
for credit searches. 
Further, she considered the investigator shouldve recommended Tesco paid her expenses 
incurred in bringing this to its attention.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive carefully considered all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, I dont uphold 
her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
I accept Miss P arrived at the loan application system on Tescos site from a comparison site 
and so its possible she wouldnt have seen the direction for existing customers to follow a 
different application process. However, I also accept Tescos lending criteria is designed to 
check for and direct applications for existing loan customers through a different process. For 
this to be effective, the key details from both applications need to match. 
As Miss Ps address hadnt been updated by her, when she applied online using her new 
address, the system didnt automatically identify her as already having an existing loan. 
Therefore, Miss P was able to proceed with the initial stages of a new application. However, 
this was picked up after the credit search and before the loan application completed.
I agree its Miss Ps responsibility to ensure all her personal information is up to date with 
Tesco. I note Miss P says the investigator suggested she hadnt updated her address rather 
than accept Tesco couldve made an error. But Miss P hasnt said she updated her address 
with Tesco nor shared any evidence to support this. So, based on the information available, it seems more likely to me this wasnt done. Whilst I understand this may have been an 
oversight, if her address had been kept up to date, I accept it more likely:
- the application wouldnt have progressed to the stage of carrying out a credit search.
- even if it had progressed to the point of a credit search, this wouldve been after a 
conversation where the restriction on what she could apply for as an existing loan 
customer wouldve been explained. 
So, I dont agree Tesco is at fault for its system allowing Miss P to progress the application 
as far as she did and having a credit search carried out. Even so, I note Tesco removed that  
credit search as a gesture of goodwill. 
Miss P and Tesco continued some correspondence after itd issued a final response letter. I 
appreciate Miss P is unhappy Tesco didnt continue to correspond with her beyond this. But 
itd issued a final response letter directing her to our service if she was still unhappy and 
responded to remind her of this. So, I cant say it shouldve reasonably continued to 
correspond with her any more than it did.
Taking everything into account, it follows that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint in this matter. 
Finally, Miss P has said shes concerned about the impact on other applicants. Whilst I 
appreciate her strength of feeling, Im afraid I cant help with these concerns. We can only 
look at the facts of the complaint that has arisen  here this is between Miss P and Tesco 
about her loan application  and consider whether the business has acted fairly and 
reasonably in that particular case. Any issues like those suggested by Miss P would need to 
be raised with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Its also for largely the same 
reasons we cant consider the suggestion Tesco acted in this way because of the interest on 
interest payments they would receive on a consolidated loan.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman