DRN-2335069
The complaint
Mr F says Evergreen Finance London Limited  trading as MoneyBoat  irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
This complaint is about three short-term loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr F between          
July 2015 and January 2019. Mr Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 13/07/2015 21/08/2015 2 £200.00 £116.40
2 12/10/2015 20/11/2015 2 £200.00 £116.86
Break in lending
3 31/01/2019 20/08/2019 4 £250.00 £304.84
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Fs complaint and thought loans 1 and 2 shouldnt have 
been given because the information gathered by MoneyBoat showed Mr F was struggling to 
manage his money. MoneyBoat didnt respond to the assessment. So, the matter has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
There was a significant break in Mr Fs borrowing from MoneyBoat. There was a gap of over 
three years between loans 2 and 3. I think it would be reasonable for MoneyBoat to view this 
gap as an indication that Mr Fs finances had stabilised. 
A break in the chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we would 
consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when considering the length 
of the borrowing relationship with the consumer. So, I will look at Mr Fs borrowing in two 
separate chains. 
Our adjudicator thought MoneyBoat had carried out proportionate checks for loan 3. Mr F 
didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute about this loan, I wont be making any 
further findings on it. 
I think MoneyBoat ought to have realised that Mr F wouldnt have been able to make his 
repayments for loan 1 sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see MoneyBoat did 
income/expenditure and credit checks on Mr F before it lent him this loan. And I can see that 
MoneyBoat has provided its findings from those checks, including the reports from the credit 
checks, to us. 
Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Mr F was able to repay loan 1 onwards in a 
sustainable manner.  The credit check reports show that Mr F already had several 
outstanding debts including other short-term loans as well as longer term loans. This 
information was apparent each time MoneyBoat did a credit check. So, it was aware from 
the information it has provided, that Mr F would be unable to sustainably repay not just loan 
1 but also loan 2 as well. 
As MoneyBoat was already in receipt of that information about Mr Fs financial 
circumstances, I think it should have used that information it already had when considering 
whether it should lend to Mr F. The evidence given in that report suggested that Mr F was having problems managing his 
money and bearing in mind the number of other accounts he had, the lending looked 
unsustainable.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 1 and 2 and MoneyBoat should put things right.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent the first chain of loans (loans 1 and 2) to Mr F, as Im 
satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So MoneyBoat should do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1 and 2 from Mr Fs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen Finance London Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Evergreen Finance London Limited must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decisionI partially uphold this complaint and Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman