DRN-1830799
 
The complaint
Mr L has complained about loans granted to him by MYJAR Limited (MyJar or the 
lender). Mr L says that he couldnt afford the loans. He also says that he was borrowing 
from many other short term lenders at the time and that MyJar should have known this and 
not agreed further credit for him.
What happened
MyJar agreed four loans for Mr L from October 2017 to January 2019. The loans ranged 
between £250 and £700. I understand Mr L hadnt yet repaid his last loan when he 
complained to the lender.  
Loan Start date Date repaid Principal (£)Highest 
repayment 
(£)Number of 
repayments
1 27/10/2017 09/07/2018 250 40 12
2 09/07/2018 26/07/2018 350 102 6
3 03/08/2018 31/01/2019 700 208 6
4 31/01/2019 Not repaid 600 179 6
 
Our adjudicator already looked into Mr Ls complaint and found that MyJar should not have 
agreed Mr Ls fourth loan. MyJar didnt agree with this finding and so the complaint came to 
me, as an ombudsman, for review and final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 April 2020 explaining why I was thinking of coming to 
a different view of Mr Ls complaint and provisionally found that it was irresponsible of MyJar 
to have agreed to grant any of Mr Ls loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. 
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision so I see no need to depart from its 
conclusions but for completeness I will set them out again.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Mr L took out his loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) said that 
before lending MyJar needed to take reasonable steps to check that Mr L could afford to 
meet his repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Mr L being able to meet his 
repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further.The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks MyJar needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr L would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. Having done so, I am upholding his 
complaint about all of his loans for the following reasons.
MyJar says it asked Mr L for information about his regular income and expenses when he 
applied for a loan. The lender recorded his monthly income as £1,775 (and also £1,400) for 
his first loan and £2,100 for subsequent loans. It also recorded that Mr L said he spent £300 
a month on housing, £200 repaying existing credit and £100 on other expenses.
MyJar said that it used a Minimum Income Standard to estimate living expenses where the 
figures declared were below this threshold. It also said that it gathered some information 
about Mr Ls existing credit commitments through a third-party credit reference agency, and 
it provided the results of its checks. So it would seem that MyJar considered what Mr L said 
about his finances combined with some additional expenditure estimates when making its 
lending decisions. And Ive reviewed all the information it gathered.
MyJars credit file checks showed that Mr L was paying an estimated monthly amount of 
about £1,150 towards existing unsecured debt when he took out his first loan, almost £2,200 
when he took out his second and about £1,850 when he took out his fourth. The results also 
showed hed increased his balance on several existing debts in the months before taking out 
these loans and had opened several new accounts before his second and fourth loans.
MyJar said its checks were proportionate for each loan. However, this doesnt necessarily 
mean it made a responsible lending decision. The information it gathered each time showed 
that Mr L would not be able to meet repayments for his existing debt and also repay its loans 
in a sustainable way. So I think MyJar was irresponsible to agree any credit for Mr L and 
needs to put this right.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I find that MyJar was irresponsible to have agreed credit for
Mr  L.  In order to put things right for him, MyJar should:
a. refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 1 to 3; andb. pay interest on all these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the dates of settlement; and
c. remove adverse information about these loans from Mr Ls credit file.
 
I understand that Mr L hadnt fully repaid loan 4. If a balance remains outstanding MyJar 
should:
d. remove any interest and charges from the outstanding balance; and
e. treat all payments Mr L made on this loan as payments towards the original principal 
borrowed; and
f. if Mr L has made payments above the original principal amount these should be 
refunded to him along with 8% simple* interest from the date the overpayments arose 
to the date of settlement; or
g. if an outstanding capital balance remains, and if MyJar still owns the debt, it can use 
the refund from a) and b) to repay this and any remainder should be paid to Mr L;
h. remove adverse information about this loan from Mr Ls credit file.
 
If MyJar has sold the debt on, it should buy the debt back or work with the current owner to 
achieve steps d) to h) above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MyJar to take off tax from this interest. MyJar must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint about MYJAR Limited and require it to put 
things right for him as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman