DRN-4010870
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a motorhome he acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
What happened
In July 2020, Mr W entered into a Hire Purchase Agreement with Black Horse to acquire a 
used motorhome which was first registered in July 2018, and at the time of purchase had 
travelled around 4,100 miles. The cash price of the motorhome was around £43,995. Mr W 
provided an initial payment of around £2,000, and monthly repayments on the agreement 
were around £662 over an 84-month period. 
On 29 January 2021, Mr W raised a complaint with Black Horse as he didnt think the 
motorhome was of a satisfactory quality and he wanted to reject it. In February 2021, he had 
the motorhome inspected, which cost £40. The inspection found the following faults:
- damage around the skylight cracks in gel/fiberglass
- damage found on the roof, o/s gutter area hole in fiberglass/gel coat 
- rear bumper cracked in certain places
- crack to the shower wall
- bathroom sink coming away from the wall
- lock on the habitation door faulty, so not secure
- reverse camera providing no picture
- no TV signal from the aerial
- section of lounge/bedding missing
- water heater cowl damaged, not allowing winter cover to secure in place
The inspection report noted that the damage to the roof can cause, and may have already 
caused, damp damage to the motorhome. Mr W said that he was unable to fully inspect the 
motorhome prior to entering into the agreement, due to the Covid-19 restrictions in place at 
the time so that is why he didnt notice any of these faults previously.
In April 2021, Black Horse wrote to Mr W. In this correspondence they said that the 
inspection Mr W provided didnt give any root causes or further information, so it was 
insufficient and that is why a further independent inspection was arranged. This second 
inspection was completed in March 2021. Based on this report Black Horse agreed that they 
were responsible for some of the faults. In this correspondence they said that, in line with 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), they should have an opportunity to repair some of 
the faults and that they dont agree to a termination of the hire agreement at this time. 
They said that the damage around the skylight, and the cracks to the shower wall have been 
attributed to a manufacturing defect. So, they are in agreement that these were faults theyre 
responsible for. They also said that, due to the limited use of the goods, they felt that it was 
not fair or reasonable to expect for the bathroom sink to come away from the wall, and for 
there to be a fault with the TV signal from the aerial. So, they agreed for these repairs to be 
completed by the dealership with their assistance, if needed. But they didnt think they 
should be responsible for the following faults:
- Damage found on the roof, o/s gutter area hole in fiberglass/gel coat  Black Horse 
said that this damage was attributed to wear and tear or possibly due to user error. 
They said that it was indeterminable when this issue occurred and there was no 
definitive evidence to state that this fault was present when Mr W took possession of 
the motorhome;
- Water heater cowl damaged, not allowing winter cover to secure in place  Black 
Horse said that this doesnt affect the functional operation of the water heater, and 
that these concerns were first evidenced seven months after the point of delivery, so 
they didnt think there was anything to show this issue was present when Mr W took 
delivery of the motorhome.
In the April 2021 correspondence, Black Horse also felt that, as no fault was found by the 
second inspection report, they were not responsible for the following faults:
- section of lounge/bedding missing;
- reverse camera providing no picture;
- lock surround on the habitation door faulty, so not secure.
Regarding the rear bumpers cracked on both rear corners, Black Horse didnt think they 
were responsible for these either, as they quoted the second parts of the inspection report 
which said that, most likely, there has been at some point a very low speed collision, for 
example with a motorhome park tap, that has resulted in the cracks. And the report said that 
its not possible to say whether this issue was present at the point of sale.
In addition, in that correspondence, Black Horse wrote that they would make a £400 
payment to Mr W. £200 in recognition of any trouble and upset the upheld issues have 
caused, and £200 in recognition of any loss of enjoyment experienced due to the upheld 
concerns.
Mr W was not happy with the above, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that Black Horse should arrange and pay for some of the repairs to 
the motorhome within a reasonable amount of time. Plus, refund Mr W the cost of the 
inspection report, any payments he made since February 2021 and add 8% simple interest 
to the refund amount. She also asked them to remove any adverse information that may 
have been reported to Mr Ws credit file from February 2021 onwards.
Black Horse agreed with the investigator, but Mr W didnt. In summary, he said that he still 
wanted to reject the motorhome because he feels that the moisture in the sandwich 
construction of the roof and walls can never be removed. So, he feels that there will always 
be mould and associated spores within the construction of the walls. Mr W also said that he 
only raised the issues seven months after taking possession of the motorhome because its 
a leisure vehicle, so he only had it out on two outings before spotting the damage. And he 
said the periodic national lockdowns closed the dealership, which prevented him from raising 
these issues earlier.
While the complaint was at our service, Black Horse also looked into the issue Mr W initially 
raised about the fault he was experiencing with the fuel tank. In October 2022, Black Horse 
wrote to Mr W and said that, as the fault occurred outside the first 30 days of the supply 
date, they felt that they should be allowed the opportunity to repair. So, they said that they 
will support the repairs at no cost to Mr W and make a payment of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused because of this particular fault and taking into consideration that this 
aspect was not addressed by them previously, and for the delay this has caused. They said this offer is in addition to the previous offer made and in addition to the costs of the repairs 
that they have agreed to cover.
Mr W was still not happy with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 28 February 2023. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Mr W acquired the motorhome under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Black Horse 
is the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing with
complaints about their quality. The CRA covers agreements such as the one Mr W entered 
into. Under the agreement there is an implied term that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered to be of satisfactory quality 
where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking 
into account the description of the goods, the price paid, and other relevant circumstances. I 
think in this case those relevant circumstances include, but are not limited to, the age and 
mileage of the motorhome and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of the goods 
includes their general state and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Mr Ws case the motorhome was used, with a cash price of around £43,995. It had 
covered around 4,100 miles and was approximately two years old when he acquired it. I 
would have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new motorhome, but given the 
age, mileage and price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would have high 
expectations of it and would expect the quality of the motorhome to be of a higher standard 
than a motorhome which is more road worn or has a lower price. Also, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be free from defects for a considerable period of time.
Mr W said that he wants to reject the motorhome, while Black Horse believes that they 
should be allowed the opportunity to repair some of the issues with the motorhome.
The CRA sets out that Mr W has a short term right to reject the motorhome within the first 30 
days if the motorhome is of unsatisfactory quality, however, he would need to ask for the 
rejection within that time. Mr W wouldnt be able to retrospectively exercise his short term 
right of rejection at a later date. Mr W purchased the motorhome on 6 July 2020. On 29 of 
January 2021, more than 30 days after the supply date, and more than six months after 
acquisition, is when Mr W raised the issues with Black Horse. So, Mr W didnt raise these 
issues within the first 30 days. Even if I accept there were faults which made the motorhome 
of unsatisfactory quality, Mr W could only reject the motorhome within the first 30 days, and 
only if he expressed his wish to do so at that time. As he was unaware of the issues within the first 30 days, he couldnt possibly express his wish to reject the motorhome within that 
time. 
The CRA says that, if the motorhome acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as 
described, then Mr W would be entitled to still return it after 30 days, but Mr W doesnt have 
the right to reject the motorhome until he has exercised his right to repair. So, Mr W doesnt 
have an automatic right to return the motorhome. For me to conclude that Mr W can exercise 
his right to reject the motorhome, I would need to see that the motorhome wasnt of 
satisfactory quality, because the faults he complains about were likely to have been present 
or developing at the point of sale, and that Black Horses one attempt at a repair has failed. 
Considering the age and the mileage of the motorhome, and the faults Mr W experienced 
with the motorhome, I think most likely it was not of satisfactory quality. I will now explain 
why.
Before I go into the details of the different faults, Ive taken note that Black Horse said it was 
happy to cover some of the damage. So I dont need to address in detail these faults, but I 
will just list them for completeness and for ease of reference. Black Horse said they will 
cover the damage around the skylight and the cracks to the shower wall, as both of these 
faults have been attributed to a manufacturing defect, which I think is fair and reasonable. 
They also said that due to the limited use of the goods they felt that it was not fair or 
reasonable to expect the bathroom sink to come away from the wall, and for there to be a 
fault with the TV signal from aerial. While the complaint was at our service, they also agreed 
to support the repairs needed to the fuel tank at no cost to Mr W. Overall, I think its fair and 
reasonable that they would be responsible for these issues, as I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect some of these faults to occur on a two-year-old motorhome that has 
only covered around 4,100 miles, or a fault that would be expected to arise in the time frame 
Mr W has had the motorhome. But as these are not in question, in turn, I will focus on the 
other faults of the motorhome. 
Cracks on the rear bumpers
I think Black Horse should be held responsible for the cracks on the rear bumpers. The 
report arranged by Black Horse indicated that the rear bumper was most likely at some point 
involved in a very low speed collision, for example including a motorhome park tap that has 
resulted in these cracks. So, it concluded that the most plausible reason is accidental 
damage. But Ive also noted that the report said that the rear bumper is made of a 
thermoplastic formed material and that, because of the manufacturing process, there are 
areas that are weaker than others, particularly at a radius where the plastic is thinned by the 
forming process. The report also states that these areas are more prone to cracking than 
other areas and its these areas that are cracked on this motorhome. From the pictures 
available Ive considered that there are no scratches, aberrations, or any other evidence of a 
collision. And, considering the delicate nature of this material combined with the fact that Mr 
Ws report said that the plastic splitting on the rear bumper is a common fault not caused by 
damage, I think its most likely the damage didnt happen because of a collision. 
In addition, Ive considered that if this damage already did start to form at the point of sale, 
most likely Mr W wouldnt have noticed this because Black Horses report states that, if they 
were present at the point of sale, they were simply not obvious enough to be noticed easily. 
Hence, I think its most likely he wouldnt have been able to bring it to the attention of the 
supplying dealership at the point of supply. And I think this matches up with Mr Ws 
testimony, when he said that he only spotted them later as with time the cracks got bigger 
due to the materials exposure to the outside conditions. Also, Black Horses report is 
inconclusive about when this fault occurred but, taking everything into consideration, I think 
its most likely these cracks were due to a common fault just like Mr Ws report indicates. I 
dont think a reasonable person would expect such a fault to occur on a two-year-old motorhome that has only covered around 4,100 miles, or a fault that would be expected to 
arise in the time frame Mr W has had the motorhome. So, Im not persuaded the motorhome 
was sufficiently durable. For this reason, I do not think the motorhome was of satisfactory 
quality.
Damage found on the roof, o/s gutter area hole in fiberglass/gel coat 
The report commissioned by Black Horse said that there is a hole/crack in roof just inboard 
of the offside awning area, forward of the midpoint of the motorhome but rearward of the 
skylight area. It goes on to say that water has ingressed the hole and that damp is present 
at 40%. The damp report provided defines readings over 30% as Structural damage may be 
occurring and deterioration is inevitable. The report concluded that the hole is not a failure of 
any manufactured components, joints, or seals and is more representative of impact damage 
or some other third-party object accidentally striking the roof area. But it also said that they 
are unable to tell how and when this has occurred, so the report was inconclusive in stating 
whether this was present at the point of sale or not. It also said that the damp readings are 
relatively low, suggesting that the damaged is relatively recent and certainly not years old. 
Ive considered this but I think 40% dampness most likely wouldnt be considered relatively 
low, so I think, most likely, the damage has been happening for some time. 
Mr W has also told us that the Black Horse inspector only looked out of the roof of the 
skylight when assessing this damage. Whereas the inspector for his report went on the roof 
of the motorhome, so he questioned whether Black Horses report was as accurate as his. 
Ive considered this, and Ive also considered that Mr Ws report was a bit more conclusive 
on this aspect. It said that its a defect in the moulding, as its not an area that couldve been 
damaged by anything overhead such as a tree or branches. Also, the report said that there 
was no further damage such as scratches on the roof. 
Ive taken that into consideration, and Ive looked at all the pictures that were provided by 
both sides and I think its, most likely, a defect in the moulding, as I too cant see any other 
significant damage or scratches to the roof, which I think most likely wouldve been present 
had there been some sort of impact causing this damage. So, I think its most likely the 
damage has been caused by a defect and I dont think a reasonable person would expect 
such a fault to be present on a two-year-old motorhome that has only covered around 4,100 
miles, or a fault that would be expected to arise in the time frame Mr W has had the 
motorhome. But even if Im wrong about the damage being a defect - which Im not saying 
that I am - I still think this wouldve been present or developing at the point of sale. I say this 
because if it was damage caused by impact then this must have happened a long time ago 
as the area in question is so tiny and the dampness readings are so high (40%) that I think, 
most likely, this was happening for a significant period of time and before Mr W took 
possession of the motorhome.  
Water heater cowl damaged, not allowing winter cover to secure in place
Black Horse said they shouldnt be responsible for the water heater cowl damage. They said 
that the second inspection report indicated that the heater cowl damage would be 
considered wear and tear with a user error. So Ive taken this into consideration, and Ive 
considered that Mr W hasnt proven that this fault was present or developing at the point of 
sale. The report Mr W provided only mentions that its damaged and doesnt indicate if the 
fault was present or developing at the point of sale. So overall, I dont think Black Horse 
should be responsible for this fault. 
OverallTaking all of that above into consideration, I think its most likely theres a lot wrong with the 
motorhome and I think, most likely, the issues mentioned above were already present, or 
developing, at the point of supply. From all the evidence available Ive also seen how 
significant all these issues are and taking everything into account  including the price paid, 
the age and usage of the motorhome, and the fault in question  Im not persuaded the 
motorhome was of satisfactory quality when Mr W took delivery. Given the age, mileage and 
price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person wouldnt expect such faults to be 
present so soon after acquiring it.
For me to conclude that Mr W can exercise his right to reject the car, as mentioned above, I 
would need to see that the motorhome wasnt of satisfactory quality, because the faults he 
complains about were likely to have been present, or developing, at the point of sale, and 
that Black Horses one attempt at a repair has failed. Unless giving Black Horse that time to 
repair would cause significant inconvenience to Mr W. 
Mr W has told us that he has taken two trips in the motorhome with the last one being in 
January 2021, and after this trip his two children developed chest infections. He said the 
doctor told him it was likely caused by damp conditions they'd been in. Mr W has also told us 
that he is concerned about the water in the sandwich construction of the roof and the walls of 
the motorhome, as he believes that this can never be entirely removed. He believes that 
there will always be mould and associated spores within the construction of the walls, which, 
he said, is obviously a massive health risk to his family. Ive also considered that Black 
Horses report said that the inside of the motorhome, particularly the affected area, needs to 
be dried out and dehumidified to avoid structural damage from occurring, which will happen 
if the moisture becomes sealed in. I also considered the fact that, at that time, the moisture 
reading was already at 40%. So, I think the repairs around the water ingress issues are of a 
significant undertaking and, if done properly, most likely will take a long time to complete, 
which would be a significant inconvenience to Mr W. And even then, there is a question of 
whether all the mould and associated spores within the construction of the walls can be 
removed. Also, there is a lot of other repairs, mentioned above, that would need to be done, 
which would add even further to the amount of time needed to put things right. So, I think on 
a fair and reasonable basis, Mr W should be allowed to reject the motorhome now because 
giving Black Horse that time to repair would cause significant inconvenience to him.
Mr W has also mentioned other faults with the motorhome, besides the ones I went into 
detail about, as reasons why he thinks the motorhome was not of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale. Some of these were: lock surround on habitation door being faulty, reverse 
camera not providing a picture, and a section of lounge/bedding missing. Black Horse didnt 
think there was any problems with these three issues. But considering that I think he should 
be able to reject the motorhome, I dont need to consider these in further detail in this 
decision. 
As such, Black Horse should refund Mr Ws deposit of around £2,000. 
Any adverse information, if it has been recorded on Mr Ws credit file from January 2021 
onwards, should be removed. Also, the credit agreement should be marked as settled in full 
on his credit file, or something to that effect, and should not show as a voluntary termination.
Mr W has still been able to use the motorhome with the fault in question. During this time the 
motorhome has travelled around 4,000 miles. So, I think its fair that Black Horse can keep 
the monthly payments he has made towards the finance agreement up to 29 January 2021, 
when he raised his complaint with them.
I also think that this matter has caused Mr W a lot of distress and inconvenience when trying 
to resolve it. He had to correspond extensively with the dealership and Black Horse, as well as to make time for the two inspections that were carried out on the motorhome, which, I 
think, he would not have had to do had Black Horse supplied him with a motorhome that was 
of satisfactory quality. Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience that has had a 
direct impact on him when his two children developed chest infections. I know Black Horse 
on one occasion, to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused, already offered to pay Mr 
W £200 and then £300 on another occasion. So, I think that a total of £500 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. I 
would consider awarding more compensation to Mr W, but I have taken into consideration 
that the water heater cowl damage was most likely caused by wear and tear or user error, so 
Ive taken that into consideration when deciding this award. 
Finally, Black Horse should also refund Mr W the cost of the inspection report he had carried 
out, on production of a valid receipt or invoice. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint and I direct Black Horse 
Limited to:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2. Collect the motorhome at no cost to Mr W;
3. Refund the deposit of around £2,000;
4. Refund the cost of the inspection report Mr W had carried out, on production of a 
valid receipt or invoice; 
5. Refund all payments Mr W made after 29 January 2021;
6. Add 8% simple interest per year to all of the above points above from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement;
7. Pay Mr W £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused, if this has not yet been 
paid;
8. Remove any adverse information, if any has been recorded from 29 January 2021 
onwards. Also mark the credit agreement as settled in full on his credit file, or 
something to that effect, and it should not show as voluntary termination.
If Black Horse Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my 
award, they should provide Mr W with a certificate showing how much they have taken off, 
so he can reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 14 March 2023 and our service explained that if both parties reply 
before then, I may be able to give my final decision sooner.
Mr W said he accepts my provisional decision.
Black Horse responded and said they had no further points to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and considering neither Mr W nor Black Horse had any further comments to 
make, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to what I reached in my provisional 
decision (copied above). My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I direct Black Horse Limited to:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2. Collect the motorhome at no cost to Mr W;
3. Refund the deposit of around £2,000;
4. Refund the cost of the inspection report Mr W had carried out, on production of a 
valid receipt or invoice; 
5. Refund all payments Mr W made after 29 January 2021;
6. Add 8% simple interest per year to all of the above points above from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement;
7. Pay Mr W £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused, if this has not yet been 
paid;
8. Remove any adverse information, if any has been recorded from 29 January 2021 
onwards. Also mark the credit agreement as settled in full on his credit file, or 
something to that effect, and it should not show as voluntary termination.
If Black Horse Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my 
award, they should provide Mr W with a certificate showing how much they have taken off, 
so he can reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman