DRN-3189975
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance 
(Close Brothers) irresponsibly granted her a loan that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2015, Mrs E acquired a car and financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Close Brothers. Mrs E was required to make 60 monthly repayments of 
£250.49, and ownership of the car would pass to her once all payments were made under 
the agreement. Mrs E contributed a deposit of £700 and the total repayable under the 
agreement was £15,729.40.
Mrs E says that Close Brothers didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Close Brothers didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included credit checks and identification, but 
it didnt provide any further information.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Close Brothers didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs E didnt agree and said the adjudicator hadnt taken into account her mortgage payment 
and rent obligations when calculating her likely expenditure.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Close Brothers hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore relied 
on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mrs E. I think this gives a good indication of what 
Close brothers would likely have seen. At the time of the application it shows that Mrs E was 
in arrears on several credit accounts. I think this ought to have indicated that Mrs E was 
likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Close 
Brothers to have dug deeper and got a more thorough understanding of Mrs Es financial 
circumstances before lending.
I cant be certain what Mrs E would have told Close Brothers had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think Close Brothers needed to request bank statements, but in the 
absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in     
Mrs Es statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statements in the period leading up to the lending decision. These are in 
joint names, so Ive reviewed Mrs E and Mr Es income and have considered what proportion 
of the expenditure was Mrs Es.
Mrs E appears to have been earning about £680 per month and was also in receipt of tax 
credits averaging £140 per week (about £600 per month) and a rental income of about £700 
per month. All told Mrs Es and her partner received an income of about £580 per month. 
The statements show the regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around 
£1,750. In calculating this figure, Ive included insurances, council tax, a mortgage payment 
and estimated food/petrol costs. There was no evidence of any payment for rent so I couldnt 
take that into account but there was additional monthly expenditure of about £350 per 
month. Ive not been able to consider any activity on the additional current account or 
savings account Mrs E had, and was making transfers to her joint account from, as Mrs E 
hasnt been able to supply statements. Considering all the transactions, they appear to show 
the £250.49 monthly repayments on this agreement would have been affordable for Mrs E.
For this reason, Im not persuaded that Close Brothers acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman