DRN-3065652
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2001. Mrs L says the PPI was mis-sold. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility 
for the sale. So to keep things simple Ill refer below to AXA, rather than any other business.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ls representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs L has said the PPI was just included on her card. But the agreement she signed to 
take the card had a separate space for her to sign if she wanted the PPI. Mrs L signed 
this space, separately from signing for the card - and nothing on the form said she had to 
take the PPI or had to sign the space for it if she didnt want it. So what I have makes me 
think it likely AXA made clear Mrs L didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I dont think it likely she wouldve 
taken it without at least a broad understanding of what it covered - so it looks to me like 
she wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover - for example, she didnt have any pre-existing health issues the policy 
wouldve excluded, and her employment situation wouldnt have made it hard for her to 
claim. Also, what shes told us about her work benefits and savings makes me think the 
PPI benefit wouldve been useful for her. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for her.
Mrs Ls card agreement gave some information about the policy cost and I dont think 
she wouldve taken it without a broad idea of the approximate cost. With this and all Ive 
said above in mind, although what she was told wasnt the whole story, I dont think 
Mrs Ls decision to take the cover wouldve changed if AXA had told her more about this. 
Overall, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely she thought she was 
buying from the information its likely she was given  and, taking this and everything 
else into account, I dont think she wouldve declined it had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
So I think she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mrs L wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and, given her circumstances, I think it couldve provided 
a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or become too sick 
to work. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of 
making a claim.
Mrs Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman