DRN-3373870
The complaint
T complains about China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltds (China Taiping) handling of a 
claim made under his commercial insurance policy.  T is represented by Mr F. Any 
references to China Taiping include its agents.
What happened
In October 2020, T noticed some damage to his property. He made a claim to China Taiping 
who instructed a loss adjuster. The loss adjuster inspected the property and noted some 
cracking but didnt think this was as a result of ground related movement. They said there 
were signs of historic movement. However, they concluded that given the age of the 
property, the damage was considered to more likely than not to have been caused by 
gradual deterioration over a number of years. 
In December 2020, T arranged for a contactor to inspect his property to determine the cause 
of the water entering the property and damage to the gable wall. The contractor said there 
was significant cracking on the top one and a half stories. He said the pattern of cracking 
was not consistent with subsidence or settlement, but instead it appeared the wall was 
moving outwards. The contractor said they thought the cracking was very clean therefore 
thought it more likely it was caused by wind suction on the wall in a recent storm event. T 
asked Mr F to pass this report on to China Taiping for consideration.   
China Taipings loss adjuster considered the report provided by Ts contractor. The loss 
adjuster said it didnt definitely identify an insured event that caused the damage. He also 
said there was no evidence of damage caused by any insurable event, or a one-off storm.  
And given the age of the property; it was much more prone to gradual deterioration than 
standard masonry forms of construction. The claim continued to be declined.  
T was unhappy with this and Mr F complained on his behalf. In April 2021, China Taiping 
issued its final response. It said the conclusion from the inspection in October 2020 was that 
the damage wasnt caused by subsidence or storm damage, rather they considered the 
condition of the building had deteriorated over a long period of time. On this basis the claim 
wasnt covered, and it didnt uphold the complaint Mr F made on Ts behalf.
Unhappy with his response, Mr F referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered it and said she didnt think China Taiping had acted unfairly by 
declining the claim. Mr F didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the property has experienced damage. What is in dispute is how the 
damage occurred and whether it was caused by an insured event.
From reviewing both expert reports, there isnt sufficient evidence to suggest the property 
experienced damage as a result of subsidence. Im satisfied China Taiping acted fairly 
declining the claim on this basis. However, Ive considered whether China Taiping acted 
unfairly in declining the claim for storm damage. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons. I accept there were weather conditions in the local area just before the damage 
was identified. However, what isnt clear is whether the damage claimed for is consistent 
with damage a storm typically causes, and if the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. 
In an email after the inspection, Ts structural engineer noted it would be difficult to say for 
certain that the damage was caused by single storm event. While the structural engineer 
identified damage to the top one and a half stories, the damage along with the gable wall 
appeared recent. He didnt specifically identify that all this damage directly occurred as a 
result of the storm conditions. He noted it was probable the cracking to the gable wall could 
have been caused by wind suction. 
Against this suggestion, China Taipings loss adjuster argued there appear to be significant 
signs of gradual deterioration throughout the property. Theyve noted that historic online 
images identify signs of cracking and damage as far back as 2014, stating this wasnt 
unexpected given the age of the building. This has been supported by a number of images. 
I accept there were storm conditions in the area ahead of the damage being noticed. 
However, in the face of conflicting information about the cause of the damage, I need to 
decide which version I am more persuaded by. I dont consider either of the expert reports 
conclusively demonstrate the damage caused was a result of storm conditions. And without 
this information that conclusively demonstrates how the damage was caused, I am more 
persuaded by the account of the damage put forward by China Taipings loss adjuster and 
their finding the building has gradually deteriorated over time. 
On this basis, Ive considered the policy terms. Ive copied the relevant section below:
What is not Insured
Excluded Causes
The Insurers shall not indemnify the Insured for: -
1 Accidental Damage arising from or consisting of
a inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear
The fact T noticed the damage shortly after storm conditions occurred does not, in itself, 
mean those storm conditions were the cause of the damage. Im not satisfied T, or the 
structural engineer he appointed, demonstrated the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. Damage that has occurred gradually is not covered by the policy, and I am 
more persuaded by the expert report provided by China Taipings loss adjuster this is more 
likely how the damage occurred. 
It follows, while Im sorry to disappoint T, I dont think China Taiping acted unfairly by 
declining the claim. I wont require it to take any further action or consider the claim further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman