DRN-3191730
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave her unsuitable advice to 
transfer her personal pensions into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS).
What happened
In August 2010, Mrs K contacted Portal as she wanted to take tax-free cash from her 
pension. Mrs K wanted tax-free cash so she would have an emergency fund to cover three 
months of lost earnings due to an operation her husband was due to have. At the time of the 
advice a Pension Release Report was completed, and it said the following:
Mrs K was 56 years old
Her attitude to risk (ATR) was moderately cautious
She wanted a three-month emergency fund to cover loss of earnings due to her 
husbands upcoming operation
She wanted to take some of her pension benefits while leaving it invested
Mrs K had an interest only mortgage with an outstanding balance of £60,000 
She had an endowment policy that had a potential shortfall of between £5,000 and 
£8,000
She was employed earning approximately £10,700 per year and she had an outstanding 
credit card balance of £4,000 with no other assets or liabilities. To meet her needs Mrs K 
was advised to transfer her pension into a SIPP and invest it in UCISs and retain a small 
amount in cash - as set out below:
55% Hypa Fund Raithwaites 
20% Hypa Fund Asia
5% Olive Tree Koroni Fund
10% Hypa Finance
10% Cash Deposit
Mrs Ks pensions were valued at around £30,000. To transfer the pensions, she would be 
charged 5% of the total transfer value. The 5% charge would be deducted after the tax-free 
cash had been taken. There would also be an annual management fee of 1% per year, an 
initial set-up fee of £200, an annual administration fee of £250 per annum, a payment of tax-
free cash would cost £100 and an income drawdown calculation £125. Portal made Mrs K 
aware that by taking tax-free cash she was moving to a pension plan with higher charges. 
Subsequently the investments have failed and/or became illiquid.
Our investigator looked into matters and upheld the complaint, he said that the 
recommended SIPP was more expensive than Mrs Ks existing plans and the investments 
recommended were unsuitable for her.
Portal responded to say Mrs K required tax-free cash and her existing plans didnt allow her 
to do this without taking an annuity. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I think the advice given was wholly unsuitable. I say this because:
Mrs K had very little in the way of retirement funds and was less than 10 years away 
from retirement. She was an inexperienced investor and yet nearly all of her funds were 
invested in high risk specialist investments  that shouldnt have been promoted to her 
and didnt match her attitude to risk.
The advice meant that the charges taken from her pension were increased significantly 
without any evidence of likely benefit bar the ability to take tax-free cash without the 
need for an annuity. This couldve been achieved without such an increase in charges.
Mrs K didnt have many years left until her likely retirement and therefore even if the 
investment advice had been suitable for her  its unlikely this wouldve outperformed the 
additional charges to an extent that Mrs K would see a benefit from the advice to transfer 
to the SIPP. Prior to the advice, the regulator had provided guidance around pension 
switching and this was one of the reasons highlighted where advice was deemed 
unsuitable. 
Investment in UCIS even at a small proportion was unsuitable for Mrs K. Mrs K didnt 
have the necessary experience or knowledge for this to have been suitable for her. And 
regulatory guidance for even those it may be suitable for, was that the investment 
proportion in UCIS should be restricted to between 3 to 5%. Here approximately 90% of 
Mrs Ks funds were invested in UCIS.
Portals defence is based on the fact that Mrs K required some income to fill a gap in the 
household income as her husband was off work due to an operation. But it hasnt addressed 
the fact the investments it recommended were unsuitable and the product selected 
expensive. Even if I felt the advice to take tax-free cash was suitable, the investments and 
the product recommended have to be considered as part of the advice.
UCIS have multiple significant risk factors associated with them. There can be a lack of 
regulation, longevity, potential insolvency, offshore and currency exchange, liquidity 
issues and other factors which could prevent investors from accessing their funds and 
the fact that the funds are mostly dependant on specific market areas. 
For this reason, they are only suitable for experienced or high net worth investors. Mrs K 
was not a high net worth investor or an experienced investor and so shouldnt have 
been exposed to such a significant risk over such a large proportion of her portfolio.
Based on what I have seen of Mrs Ks circumstances, I cant see that she had the capacity 
for loss that investments like this carry. As the recommended investments were inconsistent with Mrs Ks circumstances, I consider that the investment recommendations made were 
unsuitable  it put Mrs Ks entire retirement funds at risk.  Portal didnt give Mrs K 
appropriate information about the risks involved in this investment strategy either, so she 
was unable to make an informed choice.
Furthermore, alternatives to the expensive SIPP product put forward werent explored. I 
accept Mrs K wished to take tax-free cash and there appears to have been a genuine need 
for some additional household income. But this doesnt make the recommendations Portal 
made suitable. 
Its difficult to say what Mrs K wouldve done had she been properly informed as the advice 
process was lacking and alternatives not researched. And the need for income was due to 
her husbands circumstances and a purported lack of household income, yet his financial 
circumstances and provision wasnt recorded. But I dont think it was necessarily unsuitable 
to transfer at least one of her pensions to access tax-free case without taking income. I dont 
think it wouldve been possible to do so in the existing products. Therefore, I think a fair and 
reasonable way to compensate Mrs K for the unsuitable advice is to use a benchmark based 
on an investment strategy in line with her circumstances and attitude to risk.
The loss of Mrs Ks entire pension fund will also have caused distress and so Portal should 
pay Mrs K £300 in compensation for this.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs K should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs K would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs K's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mrs K fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mrs K's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
Portal should pay into Mrs K's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs K's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided 
a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs K wont be 
able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs K's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs K is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs K would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mrs K £300 for the distress caused from the loss of her retirement funds.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs K how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mrs K a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs K asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mrs K provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set 
out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid assets, or this is 
something that Mrs K can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mrs K an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs K wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mrs K's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs K into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs K would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs K could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should put things 
right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman