DRN-3137535
The complaint
Company H (H) complains that HSB Engineering Insurance Limited (HSB) have unfairly 
declined their business protection insurance claim following an arson attack on its property 
development  
What happened
H took out a Contractors and All Risks and Liability policy on 4 February 2019 (underwritten 
by HSB) for the purpose of covering works to be undertaken at a property development it 
was working on.
On 13 February 2019 (eight days after the policy came into force), H entered into a building 
contract (which Ill refer to as the JCT contract) concerning the property development with 
another company that was also co-owned by Hs directors (R). H was the principal 
contractor, and R was named as the employer. H says that both companies were of the 
understanding that H would be responsible for insuring the contract works, and R would 
cover the buildings of the property development itself. 
The property development was later subject to an arson attack in November 2019 that 
caused significant damage, so H appointed a loss assessor and made a claim on its policy 
with HSB for loss of profit that wouldve been realised from the works that couldnt be 
completed, as well as additional interest charges it was facing. 
However, HSB declined Hs contract works claim as they said that it had not declared the 
JCT contract to the underwriters, and it was not detailed in the policy schedule. The insurer 
also said that even if it had been declared, they would not have agreed to cover the JCT 
contract due to the location of the property and the nature of the works to be completed. 
HSB also explained that the contract showed that R was responsible for insuring the contract 
works, and that it had already arranged this cover with AXA in accordance with its 
obligations as the employer under the JCT contract. So they said the contract works claim 
should be submitted to AXA instead. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Hs complaint as she was satisfied that the obligation was on 
R to insure the contract works according to the JCT contract, such that it should make the 
claim rather than H, given that it didnt declare the JCT contract to HSB. H disagreed, so the 
matter was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision in October 2021. I said I was minded to reach a different 
outcome to the investigator, as I intended upholding the complaint and set out the following 
findings:
The policy terms and conditions set out what is covered by HSB:
Cover
The Company will indemnify You in respect of physical loss or of damage to: 
Sub Section A  Contract Works 
Contract Works on or adjacent to the site of any Contract including whilst in 
Transit
Contract Works is defined by the policy as being:
Works undertaken in performance of the Contract including Works 
Temporary Works and Materials (including Free Issue Materials).
The term Contract is further defined by the policy as being:
Any Contract or undertaking of You detailed in The Schedule not exceeding 
twelve months (excluding the maintenance period) undertaken by You 
anywhere within the Territorial Limits where the Original Estimated Contract 
Price does not exceed the Sum Insured in respect of Sub Section A of the 
Insured Property.
HSB submit that this means the policy only provides cover for contract works that 
have been declared and detailed in the schedule. However, the rest of the policy 
documentation does not support this interpretation.
In terms of insured contracts, the policy terms and conditions set out:
1. The insurance provided under Section 1 of Cover applies during the 
Period of Insurance to any Contract that is current at the beginning of the 
Period of Insurance and any Contract that is undertaken during the Period 
of Insurance [My emphasis added].
So, the policy applies to contracts undertaken during the period of insurance, and 
Im satisfied that both the value and the date Hs contract was entered into occurred 
during the period of insurance. The policy does not say that contracts undertaken 
during the period of insurance must be declared or notified to the underwriters. 
Similarly, there is no exclusion applying to sub section A (contract works) that 
excludes cover for contracts that have not been detailed in the schedule. So Im 
satisfied that the JCT contract would fall within the annual coverage offered by the 
policy.
The policy schedule itself also does not state that contracts must be individually 
declared, and neither does there appear to be any section where declared contracts 
would be detailed. In fact, the policy schedule states that it will cover up to £700,000 
for the contract works of Any One Contract, which further demonstrates that the 
policy will cover any contract so long as it was entered into either before or during the 
period of insurance, as set out in the policy conditions that apply to sub section A 
(contract works cover). Therefore, I consider the definition of contract (being 
contracts detailed in the schedule) to apply to Hs JCT contract, as it would clearly fall 
within the scope of Any One Contract. 
HSB further submit that for cover under a contract works policy to be triggered, there 
has to be a contract in place governed by terms and conditions which make that 
Policyholder contractually liable for the works being undertaken. As the contract in 
place requires the Employer  in this case company R  to insure the works and not 
the main contractor  company H  HSB say there is no contractual obligation on H 
to cover the works. I appreciate that H may not have had an explicit contractual obligation to insure the 
contract works due to the mistake it made in completing the documentation. But I 
havent been made aware of any specific term within the policy that states the 
policyholder must have a contractual obligation with a third party to take out the 
insurance in order for a claim to be covered. 
Theres also little to suggest that H wouldnt still be contractually liable for the works 
undertaken in any event. Section 2 of the JCT contract, for example, sets out the 
contractors obligations with regards to carrying out the works, including the 
obligation to complete them in a proper and workmanlike manner. Section 2.3 also 
sets out that it is for the contractor to make good on any defects in the contract 
works. So, despite the error made with regards to who would be responsible for 
arranging the insurance, H was still the main contractor under the JCT contract and 
was contractually liable for the works being undertaken. 
H has explained that it misunderstood how to complete the JCT contract, and that it 
was simply a mistake that they selected Insurance Option C. Im satisfied that it was 
likely always the intention of the two parties that H would be responsible for insuring 
the contract works and R for the buildings, otherwise there would have been no 
reason for H to take out the contract works policy in the first place. Not to mention the 
fact that H is also named as the employer (with responsibility for insuring the works) 
in its own JCT contract with the sub-contractor. HSB have also been collecting 
premiums for covering the contract works, so I do not think the fact that H was 
technically not required to insure them means that they can now fairly and 
reasonably avoid liability. 
I note that a large part of HSBs reasoning for avoiding liability in this case was 
because R had covered the same contract works risk through its policy with AXA. 
However, it appears that AXA have since voided Rs policy, so there is seemingly 
now no other policy for which H or R can claim for the contract works. 
Therefore, in all the circumstances, I consider it would be fair and reasonable for 
HSB to now reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. H responded accepting my 
provisional decision, but HSB disagreed. In summary, they said:
The term Contract is defined and used deliberately and consistently throughout 
both the Schedule and the policy wording. In line with the definition, the policy 
requires contracts undertaken during the period of insurance to be declared to the 
underwriters. There is no section in the schedule for contracts to be detailed because 
none had been declared. 
The policy schedule states Contract Works (Any One Contract). The use of the 
capitalised word Contract here makes it clear that all contracts need to be declared 
to the underwriters in order to be covered. To suggest that potentially any contract is 
covered goes well beyond the scope of the intended cover.
An exclusion clause for contracts not declared isnt necessary, as the only contracts 
that will be covered are those detailed in the schedule.
It is not HSBs position that there has to be a contract in place that makes the 
policyholder contractually liable for the works undertaken. They accept that H has an 
insurable interest in the contract works, but HSB were simply unaware of the 
contract/insurable interest as it had not been declared. 
In any event, even if H had declared the contract, they would not have covered it due to the location of the risk and nature of the works, and would have also been a 
straight decline due to it being a house in multiple occupation (HMO), amongst other 
reasons.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered all of HSBs recent submissions, but they do not change the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and I will still be upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
HSB continue to maintain that the policy requires all contracts to be declared before they will 
be covered. They say that this condition is set out in the policy definition of the term 
Contract, which refers to contracts detailed in the schedule. HSB says the schedule also 
makes use of the capitalised term to indicate that it should be read in line with the policy 
definition. 
However, looking at the schedule, it is not just the word Contract that is capitalised, it is the 
entirety of the phrase Any One Contract (for which there is no corresponding definition that 
I have seen). So I do not accept that its readily apparent that the Contract part of this 
entirely capitalised phrase is referring to any particular definition assigned to it within the 
policy document. 
In any event, even if it did clearly reference the definition of Contract within the schedule, 
this would in turn result in a circular exercise to determine what is actually meant by the 
policy. For example, the schedule would refer the reader to the policy definition, but the 
definition then refers the reader back to the schedule and so on. So, I consider this to create 
an ambiguous position about what is meant by contracts detailed in the schedule, and it 
remains objectively unclear as to whether contracts would have to be declared before they 
can be covered. Therefore, I still do not consider it would be fair and reasonable for HSB to 
decline the claim on this basis.
I also ought to make it clear that Im not suggesting that policies such as the Contracts and 
All Risks policy provided by HSB should cover any contract that the policyholder 
subsequently enters into during the period of insurance. It is up to the individual insurer and 
their underwriters to determine which risks they are willing to indemnify, and in HSBs policy 
they have set out the parameters of what contracts they are willing to cover (i.e. those within 
the financial/territorial limits that do not exceed 12 months etc). And generally speaking, 
there would be nothing unusual if an insurer did require contracts to be declared. However, if 
this is a condition of the policy, then the insurer needs to make this unmistakably clear within 
the policy documentation. And in these circumstances  when considering the policy terms 
and conditions when read in conjunction with the policy schedule  Im not persuaded that 
HSB has made it clear. Nowhere in the schedule or policy terms does it state that the 
policyholder must declare contracts to HSB before they can be covered. The fact that it says 
detailed in the schedule within the definition of the word contract does not, in my judgment, 
make the policyholders obligations clear.
I also appreciate that HSB may not consider an exclusion clause of this nature to be 
necessary. But the point I was making in my provisional decision was that if there was an 
exclusion, it would at least support HSBs position that it was the parties intention for all 
contracts to be declared in order to be indemnified. And the absence of any such exclusion 
lends further weight to the fact that a policyholder wouldnt know of the obligation placed 
upon them as the policy is unclear in this regard. Finally, HSB say that if H had declared the contract, they wouldnt have covered it in any 
event due to the location of the risk and nature of the works, and due to it being an HMO. 
However, there is nothing in the policy to support that HSB wouldnt have covered this 
contract. As Ive set out above, the definition of Contract sets out the parameters of which 
contracts will be covered (i.e. those not exceeding 12 months and undertaken anywhere 
within the territorial limits where the original estimated contract price does not exceed the 
sum insured). So, assuming that Hs contract falls within those parameters, theres nothing 
else in the policy to suggest it wouldnt be covered (i.e. there is no exclusion for HMOs for 
example).
In any event, given that the policy doesnt clearly set out that contracts have to be declared, I 
dont consider it would now be fair and reasonable for HSB to decline the claim on the basis 
of the contract not being covered if it had been declared. Only if the policy was clear in the 
insureds obligations in this respect could they reasonably have the option of considering the 
contract retrospectively.
So, having reviewed everything again, Im still not persuaded that HSB have declined this 
claim fairly or reasonably, so it follows that I will be directing them to reconsider Hs claim.      
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSB Engineering Insurance 
Limited to reconsider Hs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman