DRN-1636417
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) proposed settlement for a 
subsidence claim under his home insurance policy. 
All references to RSA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr Ms late mother held a buildings insurance policy underwritten by RSA. Mr M now holds a 
home insurance policy which covers the affected property. In February 2017, a claim was 
made for subsidence which caused damage to her propertys porch. This claim followed a 
previous claim in 2011 for the same issue and was dealt with by RSA as a continuation of 
that claim. 
RSA appointed experts to investigate the cause of the subsidence. The reports concluded 
the subsidence was caused by clay shrinkage due to roots of Ash trees within close 
proximity of the property. The local council authority was responsible for the maintenance of 
these trees and it acted to remove the closest tree to the property in March 2018. 
RSA says monitoring of the site was conducted between May 2017 and August 2018. Over 
the six-month period after the tree was removed, it was satisfied no further subsidence had 
occurred. At this point it agreed to the settlement of the claim either by using its appointed 
contractor to repair the subsidence damage to the porch  or to offer a cash settlement 
figure. It stated the cash settlement figure would be £792.92, plus a further £158.00 if a valid 
VAT invoice was submitted  as this was the cost for its contractor to repair the damaged 
porch to its pre-loss condition. 
Mr M wasnt happy with either settlement. He said he felt the work carried out by RSAs 
contractors in 2015 for the previous subsidence claim wasnt of a high standard, and he 
wasnt prepared to have the work conducted by its contractors again. He said he had been 
told by a builder that the porch needed to be demolished and built again rather than repaired 
 and he had been told this would cost in the region of £4,800. For this reason, he didnt 
accept RSAs cash settlement figure either. 
RSA looked into Mr Ms complaint and issued its final response in July 2019. It said it relied 
on its experts reports, and the settlement options offered were in line with the terms and 
conditions of the buildings insurance policy. The terms RSA referred to stated Where we 
can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree to pay a cash 
settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount we would have paid our 
preferred supplier . Mr M was unhappy with RSAs response, so he referred the complaint 
to our service for review. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found that 
by offering Mr M the two settlement options in resolution of his claim, RSA had acted in line 
with its policy terms and conditions. And the cash settlement value seemed reasonable 
given the details of the damage which was evidenced in RSAs expert report.RSA responded and had no further comments. Mr M responded to say he disagreed with our 
investigators outcome. He said he felt the repairs following the previous claim were only 
cosmetic, and had they been to a higher standard further damage wouldnt have occurred. 
Mr M said he would only accept RSAs offer to repair the porch as a last resort. He said the 
cash figure of £4,800 was taken from a casual conversation hed had with one of RSAs 
agents and with a builder about the work. And hes looking for compensation for this 
situation. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision and added that he didnt want RSAs contractors 
to do the repairs, but he didnt want to arrange them himself as he needed the work 
guaranteed and a certificate of structural adequacy.
As Mr M was unhappy with our investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require RSA to do anything more. Ill explain why. 
Ive checked RSAs terms and conditions to see what it would reasonably be expected to do 
when looking to settle a claim under a buildings insurance policy. 
Under the section titled How much we will pay. Buildings it states: 
If repair or rebuilding work is not carried out, we will pay an amount to cover the reduction in 
market value of your buildings resulting from the loss or damage. We will not pay more 
than the cost to us (after any discount available from our approved suppliers) of repairing or 
rebuilding the buildings. 
I think the terms are clear in explaining that if repair work is not carried out, RSA will pay a 
cash settlement figure equivalent to the total value it would cost its approved contractors to 
complete the work. 
Ive reviewed the expert reports obtained by RSA which were used to support its decision to 
repair the porch. RSA instructed these experts to act as its agents as they have the specific 
expertise in the fields of subsidence and tree management. I consider it reasonable for RSA 
to accept in good faith the experts reports and use them to support any recommended 
action. 
RSA is satisfied that repair work will be able to return the porch to its pre-loss condition  
and demolition and a rebuild isnt necessary. The expert report Ive considered states, the 
cause of the problem (dehydration) is reversible. Clay soils will re-hydrate in the winter 
months, causing the clays to swell and the cracks to close. The report goes on to state, 
Provided the cause of movement is dealt with (in this case, the nearest ash tree) there 
should not be a recurrence of movement. So I find RSAs decision to not demolish and 
rebuild the porch seems reasonable based on the reports it received from its expert agents 
and approved contractors. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms concerns regarding the standard of work previously completed by 
RSAs approved contractors. But having reviewed the expert reports it seems more likely, on 
balance, that further subsidence was caused due to the unsuccessful maintenance of the 
Ash trees after the initial claim, rather than the standard of work to repair the porch at the time. The tree expert report states Having considered the available information, it is our 
opinion that T1, T2 and T3 (the Ash trees) are all casual factors in the current subsidence 
damageif an arboricultural (sic) solution is to be implementedwe recommend that T1, T2 
and T3 are removed. So I think this report clearly shows the Ash trees were the main cause 
of the porch subsiding. I appreciate the maintenance of the Ash trees wasnt Mr Ms 
responsibility  it was that of the local council. But I havent seen anything to indicate the 
porch subsided again due to faulty workmanship instead.
Ive next considered the level monitoring reports which RSAs contractor carried out to see if 
the porch was still subsiding. RSA carried out level monitoring between May 2017 and 
August 2018. The Ash tree closest to the property was removed in March 2018, and the 
monitoring results showed no further movement in the following months during what was a 
hot summer. Given the conditions, any subsidence caused by clay shrinkage would have 
been apparent following a period of hot, dry weather. So I am satisfied RSA did enough to 
both demonstrate the cause of subsidence and then show it was no longer an issue for the 
porch.
Mr M says he wants the work on the porch guaranteed, and a structural certificate provided. 
RSA confirmed within its final response letter that its repair work would include a three-year 
guarantee and a Certificate of Structural Adequacy. So, Im satisfied that if Mr M did choose 
to settle his claim with the repair work being conducted by RSAs approved contractors, he 
would receive written assurances for the work.
RSA has provided a proposed schedule of works including costings for the repair to the 
porch. Ive concluded RSAs proposed repair is reasonable and in line with the expert 
recommendations, and as such find the costing attributed to the repair in the schedule fair 
and reasonable. So I dont find any reason to require RSA to increase its cash settlement 
offer.
Mr M has asked for compensation to be awarded in this complaint. But I find no reason for 
an award of compensation here. I say this because RSA has acted in line with the proposed 
recommend repair and the policy terms. I havent seen an evidence of avoidable delays 
caused by RSA to the current claim. And RSA has treated this claim as a continuation of a 
previous claim, meaning no excess will be deducted from the cash settlement should Mr M 
choose this. 
Mr M should now let RSA know his preferred method of settlement so it can progress the 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer to settle the claim is 
reasonable, so I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman