DRN-3539167
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of P that Advanced Payment Solutions, trading as Cashplus, 
closed his account and returned his funds to source. Hed like compensation for the impact 
on P. 
What happened
Mr K is the sole director of P. 
P opened a business account with Cashplus in May 2020. 
Soon after opening the account a payment of almost 3,600 euros entered Ps account. 
Cashplus restricted Mr Ks access to Ps account and they carried out a review. On 
2 June 2020 Cashplus completed their review and gave P 60 days notice  the account 
remained restricted during this time. On 17 June 2020 they returned the funds in Ps account 
to source. 
Mr K complained to Cashplus about the restriction of his account and the holding of his 
funds. 
Cashplus looked into Mr Ks complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary Cashplus explained 
theyd followed the terms and conditions of Ps account when restricting and closing it  and 
acted fairly in returning his funds to source. 
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Cashplus response so complained to our service.
Mr K explained that the payment was for the sale of PPE masks but these hadnt been 
shipped yet, and remained in a warehouse. 
Our investigator looked into Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary he explained that 
P hadnt lost out financially  as it still had the stock  and Cashplus had acted fairly in 
closing Ps account. 
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. In response he said:
Cashplus almost closed P  they damaged Ps reputation by holding on to their 
customers funds for 45 days
Cashplus havent explained what they relied upon to close Ps account
As Mr K didnt accept our investigators view its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered Cashpluss decision to restrict Ps account and then close it with 60 
days notice on 2 June 2020. I understand this will disappoint Mr K, but as our investigator 
explained a business doesnt need to share with a customer why its made a decision to 
terminate a relationship with a client. But, it does need to follow the terms and conditions of 
the account  and having reviewed the terms and conditions of Ps account Im satisfied that 
Cashplus has done so. 
Ive also thought about whether Cashplus acted fairly in returning Ps funds to source  Mr K 
provided an invoice from the purchasing business. But, hes explained to our investigator 
that the goods he bought  PPE  remained in his warehouse. Therefore, they hadnt been 
provided to A  which I find surprising considering this was Ps first transaction as a 
business. As our investigator correctly explained, even if I thought that Cashplus acted 
unfairly in returning Ps funds to source, Id need to think about the impact on P. And Im 
afraid Im unable to see any significant impact. As Ive highlighted P still had the stock  and 
this occurred during the early part of the pandemic  which suggests theyd still be plenty of 
opportunities for P to sell their PPE. Secondly P has no previous turnover, therefore Im 
unfortunately unable to accurately assess any damage to Ps customer base from Cashplus 
actions. 
I understand this will disappoint Mr K but for the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be 
asking Cashplus to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman