DRN-2887274
The complaint
Mr M complains that the financial settlement offered to him doesnt reflect the loss he 
suffered when he rejected a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited.  
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M was supplied with a new car and entered into a finance agreement with 
BMWFS. Mr M experienced several faults with the car. After repair attempts failed, BMWFS 
accepted a rejection of the car and offered to refund Mr Ms deposit plus interest, refund the 
cost of a private plate transfer and vehicle tracker and refund the GAP policy and car 
insurance.  
Mr M wasnt happy with the offer. He wants a refund of the legal fees hes incurred and 
compensation for loss of enjoyment.
I issued a provisional decision. In that decision I explained that because BMWFS had 
accepted a rejection, I wouldnt be looking at whether the car was of satisfactory quality, but 
would focus on whether the settlement offered by BMWFS was fair and reasonable, taking 
into account Mr Ms request for a refund of all or part of his monthly payments and a refund 
of his legal fees and further compensation.
In relation to a refund of monthly payments I said that I was persuaded that some of the 
defects with the car would be affected Mr Ms enjoyment of it.  I concluded that it was fair to 
ask BMWFS to refund 10% of Mr Ms monthly payments and explained that I didnt think it 
was fair to ask BMWFS to refund more than this because despite the defects, Mr M had 
been able to use the car and had coved the expected mileage.
In relation to legal fees, I said that I wasnt persuaded that it had been necessary for Mr M to 
seek legal advice before the expiry of the 8 weeks which BMWFS was entitled to investigate 
and respond to the complaint. I concluded that it wasnt fair to ask BMWFS to refund Mr Ms 
legal costs.
In relation to compensation, I said there was more of a delay than I thought was reasonable 
between Mr M requesting to reject the car and BMWFS accepting the request. I concluded 
that BMWFS should pay compensation of £200.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision and said he didnt agree that he should only 
receive a refund of 10% of his monthly payments because this meant that BMWFS would 
have received 90% of the monthly payments for a car which Mr M had used for only 62% of 
the term of the agreement. He said he should be refunded a greater amount.
BMWFS responded to my provisional decision and said it accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Ms point relating to a refund of his monthly payments. I explained in 
my provisional decision that following a rejection, its generally the case that all or part of the 
monthly payments are refunded, subject to the right of the business to make a deduction for 
usage. 
In this case, Mr M was able to use the car despite the defects and covered the expected 
mileage. So, I wouldnt generally expect the business to refund anything. I acknowledged in 
my provisional decision that Mr Ms enjoyment of the car had been affected and concluded 
that it was fair to recognise this by asking the business to refund 10% of monthly payments. 
This is a recognition that Mr Ms enjoyment was affected but is not (as Mr M appears to 
suggest) an adjustment of the refund amount based on loss of use and/or mileage. 
I remain of the view that it is fair to ask BMWFS to refund 10% of Mr Ms monthly payments 
to reflect loss of enjoyment. 
Mr M didnt comment on my conclusions regarding legal fees and compensation. I remain of 
the view that it wouldnt be fair to ask BMWFS to refund legal fees for the reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision.   
Putting things right
To put things right  and in additional to the settlement already paid to Mr M  BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited should refund 10% of Mr Ms monthly payments and pay 
compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must 
refund 10% of all of the monthly payments made by Mr M and pay compensation of £200 for 
distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman