DRN-2329932
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that AmTrust International Underwriters DAC has declined a claim made 
against his guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance policy after the car was stolen.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr A acquired a car with a finance loan and at the same time took out GAP 
insurance. Mr A said the car was stolen in November 2019. The loss of the car was 
considered under the cars motor insurance policy. And Mr A made a claim to AmTrust for 
the shortfall under the GAP insurance policy that he had with them.
AmTrust declined Mr As claim, saying he wasnt eligible for the GAP insurance cover as he 
wasnt the registered keeper of the car at the time the GAP insurance policy was taken out. 
He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that AmTrust hadnt acted unfairly by declining Mr As claim as his 
policy says he had to be the registered keeper of the car and he wasnt.
Mr A said his brother hadnt been able to get finance on the car, so hed taken out the 
finance loan and the GAP insurance in his name. He said the dealer had entered the car 
registration documents in his brothers name. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
In bringing this complaint Mr A has said that the policy was mis-sold, as it was known that 
the car wouldnt be registered in his name. But in that of his brother who had been unable to 
obtain finance to acquire the car. But AmTrust didn't sell the GAP insurance policy to Mr A 
the car dealership did. And the dealership is a separate body from AmTrust and is also 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. This means that the dealership is itself 
responsible for responding to complaints about the sale of the policy. So, I don't intend to 
deal with Mr As complaint about the policys mis-sale in this decision. In determining my 
decision, I will look at whether AmTrust have acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr As 
claim under his GAP insurance policy cover.
GAP is an insurance policy which covers the difference (gap) between the  market value of a 
car when its been written off or stolen, and what the consumer has left to pay on their car 
finance loan. In March 2018, Mr A took out the GAP insurance policy alongside the finance 
loan for the car, the insurance policy provided cover up to £25,000.
In November 2019, the car was stolen. As there was a shortfall in the amount paid under the 
car motor insurance policy, to the amount still owed on the finance loan, Mr A made a claim 
under his Gap insurance policy. 
Mr As GAP insurance policy was taken out in March 2018. The terms and conditions of the 
policy say:
You are eligible for this insurance if at the Date of commencement
You are the registered keeper of the Insured Vehicle
I can see from the registration document for the car, that the registered keeper wasnt Mr A 
but his brother. The registration document shows Mr As brother was the registered keeper 
from 28 March 2018. Mr As GAP policy began 29 March 2018. So, Mr A wasnt the 
registered keeper at the date of commencement of the policy. And so, he wasnt eligible for 
the GAP insurance.
I can also see that the motor insurance policy for the car was also in Mr As brothers name. 
As Mr As brother was the registered keeper and the motor insurance policy was also in Mr 
As brothers name the theft of the car was covered by the motor insurance claim.
I know Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but I cant say that Amtrust has acted 
unfairly and unreasonably by declining his GAP insurance claim, as he wasnt eligible under 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman