DRN-4391809
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Credit Card didnt apply 
a promotional interest rate to his credit card when he asked it to. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here 
in detail. Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Mr R felt he applied for a balance transfer with a promotional rate of 0% p.a. 
and a fee of 3.9% in December 2022. A short while later Mr R noticed that the 0% rate 
wasnt applied to the balance he had transferred, and he was being charged interest on the 
balance. He contacted Tesco to resolve the issue but he wasnt able to do so and so he 
complained. 
Tesco considered his complaint but didnt think it has acted unfairly and didnt think it was 
unreasonable in not applying the 0% interest rate. As Mr R remained unhappy, he referred 
the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said that Mr R had made the transfer 
online in his banking app in December 2022, but Tesco had confirmed that there was no 
promotional offer attached to that balance transfer. As she felt there was no promotional 
offer attached at the time of the transfer, she didnt think Tesco had made any errors in 
applying the interest to the balance transfer in line with its terms and conditions of the 
account. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco have told us that no promotional offer was available on Mr Rs account when he 
completed his balance transfer in December 2022. Tesco say when it offers existing 
customers a promotional balance transfer offer it will normally send out an email to the 
customer informing them of the promotion. 
Tesco have sent us internal records showing the promotional offers available to Mr R. I can 
see there is a limited time to accept the offers. While Mr R feels he had an offer available, 
the records provided by Tesco show there wasnt a 0% promotional offer available in 
December 2022 at the time he completed the transfer. 
We asked Mr R to provide us with any evidence from when he made the balance transfer to 
show he was taking a 0% promotional offer. Mr R did provide us some screenshots from his 
banking app, but these show a promotional offer which needed to be taken by 2 June 2023 
and was to last until his March 2024 statement. I can also see this offer on the records 
provided by Tesco, but this isnt related to the offer he said he took out in December 2022. 
I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed with my decision but in the absence of any evidence 
from Mr R showing that the offer was available in December 2022, Im unable to conclude 
that Tesco have made an error in how they have handled the balance transfer request from 
him. While Tesco have since sent Mr R promotional interest free offers, those would apply to 
balance transfers made during the offer period, with no mention that they could be 
backdated. So it follows that I dont require Tesco to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman