DRN-2658212
The complaint
Mrs R complains that in May 1997 she was given unsuitable advice by Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited (Utmost) to transfer her defined benefit pension to a personal pension. 
Mrs R says shes lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mrs R began discussing her pension with Utmost in 1996. At the time Mrs R was:
in her late 30s, married and working for a public sector employer;
together with her husband starting a new self-employed business; 
recorded as having a cautious attitude to risk; 
planning to retire at either age 60 or 65; and
a member of a defined benefit public sector pension scheme and had seven years 
worth of service. The transfer value from this scheme was around £20,000 of 
which around £7,000 was protected rights.
Utmost recommended that Mrs R transfer her defined benefit scheme into a personal 
scheme. It noted the benefits of doing so, as being:
greater flexibility towards achieving an early retirement; and
potential for greater growth.
The application to transfer was completed and the funds were transferred in May 1997.
In 2020, Mrs R complained to Utmost about the advice she received. Utmost didnt uphold 
her complaint, so she referred it to our service. One of our investigators looked into Mrs Rs 
complaint and recommended that it was upheld. Our investigator, in summary, considered 
that the advice Mrs R received was not suitable for her needs for the following reasons:
her defined pension benefits were secure and formed a significant part of her 
pension provision. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) starting point, when 
providing advice about whether to transfer a defined benefit pension plan is to 
assume the transfer is unsuitable. This was also explained in FIMBRA guidance 
provided in July 1994. An adviser should therefore only have recommended the 
transfer if there was clear evidence it would be in the clients best interests;
the documentation showed that an investment return (critical yield) of around 10% 
was needed to match the defined benefit scheme at retirement. So, a higher rate of 
return would have been needed to improve her benefits;
at that time the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' for use in loss assessment 
calculations for the Pensions Review. Businesses weren't required to use these 
rates when giving advice on pension transfers, but they provided a helpful indicator 
of the growth rates considered to be reasonably achievable. The investment return 
(critical yield) required to match Mrs Rs defined benefit pension at retirement was 
around 10% per year. At the time of advice, the relevant discount rate was 9.6% 
per year for 27 years to retirement. The regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 12%, the middle projection rate 9%, and the lower projection rate 6% per year.
the opportunity for Mrs R to improve her benefits beyond those in her defined 
benefit scheme was therefore limited, the yield to achieve that being unreasonably 
high. Given Mrs Rs cautious attitude to risk she probably wouldnt have been 
prepared to take the risk to get the higher level of returns;
taking into account the discount rate, Mrs Rs attitude to risk, her capacity for loss 
and term to retirement, likely she would be worse off financially transferring out of 
her employers pension scheme; and
the second reason for recommending transfer  greater flexibility in retiring early (ie 
at 60) could be achieved via the defined benefit scheme. 
The investigator therefore concluded that recommending that Mrs R transfer wasnt in her best 
interests and she had lost out financially as a result. Further, our investigator took the view 
that had the adviser recommended Mrs R stay in her defined benefit pension scheme, likely 
she wouldve done so.
Our investigator recommended that Utmost pay Mrs R fair compensation calculated in line 
with the pension review methodology. 
Mrs R said in response that she trusted Utmost and proceeded based on its advice. She only 
became aware that she may have received negligent advice later when she sought further 
advice from another business.
Utmost didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. It said, in summary:
Mrs R was made sufficiently aware of the benefits she was giving up. She was given 
relevant information to make an informed choice and that her decision was 
reasonable in the circumstances;
she was visited on at least three occasions by an adviser and told that following 
transfer her benefits would be dependent on investment growth and the financial 
conditions at the time the benefits were taken;
the adviser completed a Pensions Transfer In and Opt Outs checklist which recorded 
Mrs Rs attitude towards the transfer. The checklist records Mrs Rs attitude to giving 
up any guarantees and the reason given that it was for greater growth was raised 
and discussed and acceptable to Mrs R; 
she was told that the investment return required to match benefits
from her ex-employers pension scheme was 10% and was told this was between the 
middle and higher projected rates. Rates of 9% to 12%, were shown and were 
not unreasonable based on circumstances and future expectations at that time;
the Pension Transfer Analysis Report also warned that the actual pension at 
retirement from a personal pension plan would depend on the size of the end 
fund value and the annuity rates applying at the time benefits were taken. It 
explained that no guarantees could be given and her final pension at retirement 
may be smaller or larger than could be provided by her ex-employers scheme;
Mrs R had to sign an Election to Transfer Form from her employers Scheme. 
By signing this form, it is reasonable to consider that she understood the future 
benefits payable may not be equal or equivalent to those that she would 
otherwise had been entitled to from her ex-employers scheme; and
whilst her attitude to risk was recorded as 'cautious', Mrs R accepted that 
performance was linked to bonuses which were not guaranteed.Mrs Rs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and for much the same 
reasons. 
Utmost was acting as Mrs Rs adviser. Utmost therefore had to provide Mrs R with advice that was 
suitable for her needs, in her particular circumstances, and also provide her with information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make an informed choice.
Utmost recommended that Mrs R transfer her pension benefits. The reasons for doing so were two-fold, 
to give her greater flexibility in terms of retiring early and for the potential of greater growth.
Greater flexibility to retire early
Mrs R was able to retire at age 60 or 65 in the defined benefit scheme she was a member of. So, 
transferring to a personal pension scheme wasnt necessary to meet this objective.
Potential for greater growth
Mrs R had a cautious attitude to risk. Her benefits were guaranteed in the defined benefit scheme, but 
in the personal pension scheme the benefits she received would be subject to investment returns and 
annuity rates at the time she took her pension. Even to match her existing level of benefits from the 
defined benefit scheme, an investment return of over 10% per year was required in the personal 
pension scheme. This was above the regulators middle projection rate at that time.
Taking everything into account, including the FCAs starting point as regards defined benefit transfers, I 
cant see how Utmost couldve fairly and reasonably reached the conclusion that its recommendation to 
transfer was a suitable one for Mrs R given her objectives, her attitude to risk and what she was giving 
up. Even though Utmost provided Mrs R with information about what she was giving up and the critical 
yield required, I think she was relying on it to provide her with suitable advice and a suitable 
recommendation and I cant see that it did.  
So, I agree with our investigator that Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right 
Utmost should put Mrs R as far as possible, into the position she would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice. I consider she would have remained in the defined benefit scheme. Utmost 
should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, 
as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date 
of the actual calculation. Utmost may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mrs Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs R SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate 
in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and order Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to put things right as 
set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman