DRN-3170680
The complaint
Mr L complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has failed to fairly 
compensate him for delays it caused to the transfer of his pension savings.
What happened
Mr L has been assisted in making this complaint by his financial advisor. And the 
financial advisor was also involved in many of the discussions with Prudential when chasing 
up the progress of the transfer of Mr Ls pension savings. But, for ease, in this decision I will 
generally not differentiate between the actions of the two parties. I will generally refer to all 
communications as having been with, and from Mr L, himself.
Mr L held pension savings with Prudential. In October 2020 he decided to transfer his 
pension savings to another provider. That provider sent Prudential a transfer request via the 
automated Origo Options system. 
Prudential says that it would normally expect to complete that request within five working 
days. But due to some processing delays following the introduction of a new system, 
Prudential failed to complete the transfer within its expected timescale. Despite Mr L, and his 
financial advisor, making multiple calls to Prudential to chase the progress of the transfer, 
the funds were not sent to the new provider until January 2021. But, in line with its normal 
processes, Prudential backdated the value of the transferred funds to that of the day after it 
had received the transfer instruction.
When Mr L first complained Prudential accepted that the transfer had taken too long and 
apologised to Mr L. It sent him a cheque for £300 to compensate him for the inconvenience 
he had been caused. And Prudential told Mr L that it would be making contact with the new 
provider to understand whether the delay had caused a direct financial loss.
Following those discussions with the new provider, Prudential determined that Mr L had 
been able to purchase fewer units, due to changes in the unit price, than he would have had 
the transfer completed earlier. So it paid an additional sum of £2,450.77 to the new provider 
so it could purchase additional investment units on Mr Ls behalf. And it sent a further 
cheque for £450 to Mr L for the additional distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr L didnt think Prudential had calculated the compensation fairly. He noted that his pension 
savings had remained invested with Prudential until shortly before the transfer was 
completed. And the value of those pension savings had risen by £4,688 during the time of 
the delay. So he thought that was the compensation that Prudential should have paid to him.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the method 
of compensation chosen by Prudential was fair, and would place Mr L back into the position 
hed have been had the transfer not been delayed. So he thought what Prudential had 
offered to Mr L in compensation was reasonable and that it didnt need to do anything 
further.
Mr L didnt agree with that assessment. He said that the delay had led to Prudential making 
a profit from its error. He said he had been told on at least two occasions that his pension 
savings remained invested during the delay, and that their current value would be 
transferred to the new provider. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr L and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There appears to be little dispute here about the timeline of Mr Ls transfer. Prudential 
accepts that the transfer took far too long to complete. And it has paid Mr L some 
compensation, both directly for the inconvenience he was caused, and via his new pension 
provider to address the investment losses he experienced. But whilst Mr L appears to accept 
Prudentials estimation of when the transfer should have completed, he doesnt agree with 
the method it has used to calculate the compensation he should be paid.
So what I need to decide here is what would be fair and reasonable compensation for the 
delays that Prudential caused. Mr L has said that there are a number of factors I should take 
into account. He says that Prudential didnt sell his pension investments until shortly before it 
completed the transfer  although the value it gave him was that of the day after his transfer 
request was received. So it has made an accounting profit from the delayed sale. And Mr L 
also says that the delays in the transfer affected his investment strategy across the 
remainder of his pension savings  that had already been transferred to the other provider. 
He says that some investment decisions were deferred until all his pension savings had 
been consolidated with the new provider.
It would be impossible for me to say, or for Mr L to demonstrate, the investment decisions 
that would have been taken had Prudential completed this transfer in a timelier manner. But 
I can see what investment decisions Mr L did take once his funds had been transferred. On 
balance I think it more reasonable that I use those decisions as the basis of the 
compensation that I think should be paid, rather than hypothetical investment decisions that 
might understandably be influenced by the benefit of hindsight.
If Prudential had completed this transfer on time, Mr L wouldnt have benefitted from the 
investment growth that he saw in his pension savings with the delay was ongoing. So I dont 
think it reasonable that growth should form part of the compensation that I think would be 
reasonable for Prudential to pay. Although I accept that Prudential might have made an 
accounting gain as a result, I think that is entirely fortuitous. My decision would have been the same had the value of Mr Ls pension savings fallen during the delay  and in that case 
Id have expected Prudential to accept the corresponding accounting loss.
So, in terms of putting Mr L back into the position he would have been if nothing had gone 
wrong, I think I should reasonably consider the transfer value of his pension savings to be 
that used by Prudential  their value at the time the transfer instruction was received. I can 
see that the new provider invested the transferred funds immediately on receipt. So that is 
what I would consider should have happened if the transfer hadnt been delayed.
Prudential has asked the new provider to assess whether the transferred funds would have 
allowed Mr L to purchase more units of his chosen investments had they been received in 
October 2020, rather than January 2021. The conclusion from that assessment was that the 
units Mr L now held were less than they would have been if the transfer had been completed 
on time. So that is the loss that I think Mr L suffered as a result of the delay.
I can see that Prudential has sent an additional transfer payment to the new provider so 
those additional investment units could be added to Mr Ls pension savings. Although 
I havent seen confirmation from the new provider that has been done, I have no reason to 
consider it hasnt. So I think that the actions Prudential has asked the new provider to take, 
and the additional funds it provided to pay for the additional units, means that Mr L now 
holds the same investments he would have, had the transfer not been delayed.
I have listened carefully to two conversations between Prudential and Mr Ls financial 
advisor in December 2020 and January 2021. There is no doubt that, on those calls, the 
financial advisor was told that Mr Ls pension savings remained invested and had not been 
placed into cash. I think those were entirely true statements. But I dont think saying that 
gave Mr L any entitlement to receive that higher amount once the transfer was completed  
Prudentials process was clear, and Mr Ls transfer would be valued at the date the request 
was received. I dont think, on either call, Prudential told the financial advisor that a higher 
amount would be payable to the new provider.
There is no doubt that the delayed transfer would have caused a great deal of trouble and 
upset for Mr L, and taken both his time and that of his financial advisor in seeking updates 
from Prudential. I can see that Prudential has sent cheques totalling £750 to Mr Ls home 
address to compensate him for that inconvenience. I think the additional compensation 
Prudential has paid to Mr L is both fair and reasonable.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr L. There is no doubt that he was let 
down by Prudential when he asked to transfer his pension savings to the new provider. An 
instruction that should have been completed in five working days, took almost three months. 
But I am pleased to see that Prudential accepted it was responsible for that delay, and has 
taken steps to put things right. I think the approach that Prudential has taken is fair and 
reasonable, and in line with what I would have directed in the circumstances of this 
complaint. So I dont think that Prudential needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any further award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Paul ReillyOmbudsman