DRN-1683504
The complaint
Ms B complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality and that 
MotoNovo Finance wont reimburse her for the repair costs that shes incurred. Shes being 
helped with her complaint by her representative.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Ms B under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
in June 2016. The car was supplied on the basis that its mileage was 84,000 but it was 
discovered that the mileage was incorrect. Ms B complained to MotoNovo Finance about the 
mileage discrepancy and asked it to reimburse her for some repair costs that shed incurred.
It accepted that the cars mileage was incorrect when the car was supplied to her and that it 
had been driven for an additional 45,460 miles. It said that the difference in value of the car 
was £3,010 so, in September 2019, it paid that amount to her, with interest of £777.16 and 
£200 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Ms B complained to this service because MotoNovo Finance hadnt reimbursed her for the 
repairs costs that shed incurred. The investigator recommended that this complaint should 
be upheld. She was of the opinion that the issues that Ms B had experienced with the car 
were a result of the actual mileage that the car had completed and were due to the additional 
wear and tear - so she didnt feel that it was fair that Ms B should be responsible for those 
costs. She recommended that MotoNovo Finance should pay £1,350 to Ms B to reimburse 
her for the repair costs. 
Ms B has accepted the investigators recommendation but MotoNovo Finance has asked for 
this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in summary, that:
it has confirmed that there was a mileage discrepancy and has compensated Ms B 
for that;
she didnt report any issues with the quality of the car before arranging for 
unauthorised repairs;
it wasnt given an opportunity to investigate those issues to determine whether they 
would have been present or developing when the car was supplied to her and 
determine liability;
the repairs are to unrelated issues so arent an indication of any underlying long-term 
issues;
Ms B would have to provide evidence that the faults were present or developing 
when the car was supplied to her and its seen no evidence which supports that; and
as Ms B completed unauthorised repairs, and the repairs are to unrelated issues, it 
wouldnt look to reimburse her for the cost of the repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms B. Whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to Ms B was ten years old, was 
understood to have been driven for 84,000 miles and had a price of £11,000. Satisfactory 
quality also covers durability which means that the components within the car must be 
durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Ms B on the basis that it had been driven for 84,000 miles. Its now 
accepted that the cars mileage was 45,460 more than that and MotoNovo Finance has paid 
a total of £3,987.17 to Ms B for the difference in the value of the car, interest and 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience. Ms B has accepted that payment and I 
consider it to be a fair and reasonable resolution to the mileage discrepancy.
The cars mileage was more than 50% higher than Ms B had understood it to be. MotoNovo 
Finance has compensated her for the difference in value of the car but shes claimed 
reimbursement for the repair costs of £1,350 that shes incurred.
In January 2018 she paid a garage £750 for work on the car that was described as: Brake 
hose pipe, gear box sump gasket, gear box oil and gear box jump nut. The cars mileage 
was recorded as being 88,011  so shed only used the car to drive about 4,000 miles in 18 
months.
In March 2019 she paid that garage £600 for work on the car that was described as: Injector 
seals and hand brake actuator  the charge was just for labour as Ms B supplied the parts. 
The cars mileage was recorded as being 94,200  so shed only used the car to drive about 
12,000 miles since it was supplied to her. 
Those repairs might reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear on a car that had 
been driven for more than 130,000 miles  but the car was supplied to Ms B on the basis 
that it had been drive for 84,000 miles. Ms B arranged and paid for the repairs and didnt 
claim reimbursement from MotoNovo Finance until after shed found out about the mileage 
discrepancy. I dont consider that to be unfair or unreasonable in these circumstances. I 
consider it to be more likely than not that the repairs were required as a result of the 
additional mileage for which the car had been driven  and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for MotoNovo Finance to pay £1,350 to Ms B to 
reimburse her for the repair costs that shes incurred.
Putting things right
The investigator recommended that MotoNovo Finance should pay £1,350 to Ms B to 
reimburse her for the repair costs that shes incurred. Ms B has accepted that 
recommendation and I consider that the investigators recommendation was fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint and I order FirstRand Bank 
Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, to pay her £1,350 to reimburse her for the repair 
costs that shes incurred.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman