DRN-3649855
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt refund a credit card payment 
for unnecessary work carried out on his car.  He would like a refund of the payment made..
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
To consider Mr Ms Section 75 claim for a refund of money paid for an MOT and 
service Barclays needed some evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. It  asked for an independent inspection to support the problems 
Mr M said he had with the car when he got it back. We would expect independent 
evidence to support such claims, so I dont think this was an unreasonable request. 
I appreciate Mr M provided photographic and video evidence of the state of the car 
when returned to him but that doesnt confirm the state of the car prior to work being 
carried out or that issues were caused by the merchant.  Additionally, Mr M went 
ahead with repairs himself. which would make it difficult  to know if any issues were 
caused by the merchant or not. I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays not to 
pursue a Section 75 claim  as I dont believe it had the evidence to do so.
Mr M has made several points about the service he received from the merchant  
which he feels give  him grounds for a claim of misrepresentation, but I dont agree. I 
dont think the fact Mr M told us work was supposed to have been completed within a 
day  but took two days as grounds for misrepresentation. I dont believe  Mr M has 
evidenced an absolute guarantee work would be done within one day. But even if he 
had ,I dont think believe the few days time taken to do the work is sufficiently 
unreasonable to justify a Section 75 claim. Similarly,  poor customer service from the 
merchant isnt ground for misrepresentation either
Barclays has acknowledged that there was some delay in dealing with Mr Ms claim 
due to the impact of the pandemic on its operations. It credited Mr Ms account with 
£25 to reflect this .I think it was reasonable for Barclays to make some gesture as it 
did take some months to get back to Mr M to ask for an independent inspection. I 
think some allowances do have to be made for business response times during the 
pandemic. And I have noted some further delay in dealing with Mr Ms complaint was 
due to him not responding to Barclays request in March 2021 for an independent 
inspection.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman