DRN-3315085
The complaint
This complaint is about two further advances on an equity release lifetime mortgage that 
Mr and Mrs G took out through Responsible Life Limited.
The mortgage was originally held jointly. Mr G passed away in January 2019 at which point 
the mortgage transferred into being held in Mrs Gs sole name. Upon her passing in August 
2019 the right to complain vested with her estate.
The estate of Mrs G has complained that the two further advances taken out in 2014 and 
2018 were mis-sold.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021, the findings of which said:
I trust the parties wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
When these products were first offered to the market from the late 1980s onwards, it was 
envisaged that there was the potential for family members to be unhappy once they 
learned that their relatives had taken out an equity release mortgage, or for borrowers to 
regret the erosion of the equity in their properties.
Precisely because of this, even before mortgage regulation came into effect on 31 October 
2004, the sales process for these products has always been very robust, with borrowers 
required to take advice from a solicitor, as well as a financial advisor. However, these were 
further advances on an already existing lifetime mortgage, so independent advice from a 
solicitor wasnt required.
Its impossible for us now to establish everything that was discussed between Mr and Mrs 
G and the adviser at the time. Im aware that over 7 years have passed since the first 
further advance was sold, and as Mr and Mrs G have both passed away theyre unable to 
give us their recollections of the sales.
In such instances we typically look at the records from the time to try to get the best 
impression possible of what was discussed. However, thats not the end of the matter. We 
also look at the wider transactions and the specific circumstances of the consumer(s) at the 
time of the sales to try to establish if a product was mis-sold.
Id like to reassure the estate that Ive carefully reviewed the documents available from the 
time of the sale to try to build up a picture of what happened. And Ive used all this 
evidence to determine whether Responsible Life mis-sold the further advances to Mr and 
Mrs G and if they were clearly unsuitable for their needs at the time.
This type of mortgage provides that no repayments are made, and interest rolls up over the 
years. As a result, the amount the debt has increased to can sometimes come as a shock 
to family members. But that doesnt mean the consumers that took out the mortgage  so 
here that was Mr and Mrs G  didnt understand the consequences of the interest roll up 
and werent happy to agree to it.
This was Mr and Mrs Gs house and their equity. If they wanted to use the equity in their 
home to pay for some home improvements, or other things, then it would be highly 
inappropriate for me to say that they shouldnt have been allowed to do so.
In 2014 it was recorded that Mr and Mrs G wanted to borrow £60,000 to undertake some 
home improvements and pay some medical costs. It was recorded that they didnt want to 
use their savings, and didnt want to make any monthly payments. They didnt want to 
move house or ask their family for help, and so it seems a further advance on their lifetime 
mortgage seemed the most appropriate option for them.
The fact find indicates the adviser asked Mr and Mrs G about their health and it is recorded 
[Mr G] takes medication for blood pressure and has had a heart bypass. [Mrs G] has also 
been in hospital but not for any serious operations.
An illustration was issued to them, and the adviser set out the reasons for his 
recommendations in a suitability letter to Mr and Mrs G.
Ive listened to the call that the lender transferred to Responsible Life on 1 September 
2014. The lender said that Mr G had called on 21 August to request some further funds 
and the details had been passed to Responsible Life to give Mr and Mrs G a call, but that 
hed not heard anything. In that call Responsible Life went through some basic information, 
asking Mr G why he wanted the further advance. He said he wanted to decorate the whole 
house and upgrade the kitchen. He said all the money was lying there and otherwise tax 
would be taking most of it as they owned two flats as well. The call ended with Responsible 
Life arranging with Mr G that an adviser would give him and Mrs G a call that afternoon.
Having listened to that call, considered all the paperwork from the time, and the information 
provided by the estate about Mr and Mrs Gs health theres nothing Ive seen here that 
should have put Responsible Life on notice that Mr and Mrs G didnt have the capacity to 
enter into this further advance, or that it was inappropriate for their needs.
At the time a much larger sum was available to be drawn down, but instead a set amount 
was released which fits in with Mr and Mrs Gs stated needs.
Having considered everything, I dont think the 2014 further advance was mis-sold.
I now turn to the 2018 further advance, and I do have some serious concerns about this 
sale.
The Equity Release Council has some rules and guidance on the standards expected with 
the sale of lifetime mortgages. Part of this is to ensure customers that are vulnerable are 
identified and treated accordingly. It states
There are many high-level circumstances and events that could lead to a customer being 
vulnerable. Vulnerability is not static and can evolve or change over time. Vulnerability 
triggers can include:age, physical or mental health
It also sets out that advisers should pay due regard to customers best interests at all 
times and that it should be demonstrated that The customers(s) physical and mental 
health has been considered in relation to the suitability of the plan. If there is any doubt 
regarding the customers capacity an independent opinion from a suitably qualified medical 
practitioner may be required.
The information about Mr and Mrs Gs health has just been copied and pasted from the 
2014 fact find. Whilst that could be because the adviser asked Mr and Mrs G and they said 
there was no change, Im not persuaded by that. Even if that were to be the case I would 
have expected the comment to say so, rather than just being a copy and paste without any 
extra information.
In any event I very much doubt Mr and Mrs G would have said that about their health if the 
question was asked correctly as the medical information provided by the estate shows a 
very different picture. There were some very significant changes in Mr and Mrs Gs health 
between the 2014 and the 2018 sales, and it would seem odd that theyd choose not to 
disclose any of that if they were asked. Both Mr G and Mrs G were undergoing serious 
medical checks at the time, with Mrs G receiving a terminal diagnosis due to those checks 
a few weeks later. Mr G had heart failure, and shortly after the sale was admitted to 
hospital, with the discharge paperwork showing he was being referred to the memory clinic. 
Mr G passed away within months of the 2018 further advance being taken out, and Mrs G 
passed away seven months later.
Having considered everything Im not persuaded the adviser asked about Mr and Mrs Gs 
health as he should have done in 2018, as I dont think Mr and Mrs G would have 
answered as the fact find recorded.
In addition the 2018 further advance was for the maximum amount allowed - £136,358  
which doesnt indicate it was worked out for a specific need.
It was noted they wanted to undertake some more home improvements The home 
improvements will include substantial refurbishment, new bathroom, kitchen, new roof and 
general maintenance/decorating. If there are funds left over these will go towards buying a 
second/holiday home. But when they died the money was untouched in their account.
Mr and Mrs G were 85 and 83 years old respectively, and they were both in poor health. 
Whilst this was a relatively high valued property, that was due to the location rather than 
the size of it (it was a five bedroom semi-detached house), so it is difficult to see why Mr 
and Mrs G would have actively requested £136,358 to spend on it. The valuation at the 
time noted that the condition was consistent with its age, and that some works of repair and 
maintenance were required. If a five bedroom semi-detached property required over 
£100,000 of work I would expect that to be reflected in the valuation report from the time.
Responsible Life had a duty, under the regulators high-level principles, to act in Mr and 
Mrs Gs best interests and treat them fairly, and in 2018, I find that Responsible Life failed 
to meet that duty. Im not persuaded that the sale was carried out diligently, or that the fact 
finding was carried out thoroughly and carefully to ensure this sale was suitable.
I dont find that the core debt arising from the 2018 further advance should be waived as 
the estate has told us that money was still there when Mr G and then later Mrs G passed 
away. But I dont think it is appropriate that interest was paid on that sum.I understand the property was sold in February 2021 and the lifetime mortgage and further 
advances were redeemed. To that end Im provisionally minded to order Responsible Life 
to pay to the estate of Mrs G:
A sum equivalent to the interest that was charged on the 2018 further advance up 
until it was redeemed in February 2021. Responsible Life should add simple 
annual interest of 8%* to that sum, running from the date the mortgage was 
redeemed to the date of settlement.
A refund of the fees it cost to set up the 2018 further advance as those sums 
wouldnt have been incurred if the further advance hadnt been sold. I 
understand these to be a valuation fee of £867 and an application fee of £75. 
Responsible Life should add simple annual interest of 8%* to that sums, running 
from the date the payments were made (in the case of the application fee, that 
would be the date the further advance completed) to the date of settlement.
* If Responsible Life considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element 
of my award it may do so but it should give the estate the necessary paperwork, if it 
asks for it, so it can reclaim any tax from HMRC if its entitled to do so.
The estate accepted my provisional findings, albeit asked if we can recommend that in future 
Responsible Life records all interactions with consumers.
Responsible Life responded saying, in summary:
It recognised my concerns about the health data and said it had instituted 
improvements in 2021 in the depth and quality of recording customer responses, and 
in 2022 it would be piloting voice recording for all adviser interactions.
The adviser remained convinced that Mr and Mrs G presented very clearly in their 
intent, understanding and their need for that level of funds.
It had found some new information  an email trail from 2018 - which showed one of 
Mr and Mrs Gs sons was involved in the return of the paperwork at that time. 
Mr and Mrs G had completed the first set of paperwork incorrectly, so they had to 
complete a second set which was checked and returned by the son. It said this 
showed the son was aware  and supportive  of the equity release and had the 
opportunity to raise any concerns about Mr and Mrs Gs vulnerability with the adviser.
Our investigator put the email evidence to the estate for its comments, and the son in 
question responded to say he was simply carrying out the instructions of his parents  one of 
which was in hospital at the time. He said he didnt look at the paperwork and had no part in 
any conversations or decision making.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered everything Responsible Life and the estate said about the emails 
that were found and having done so Im satisfied this doesnt alter the outcome of this 
complaint.
Whilst the emails show Mr and Mrs Gs son was aware of an application, that doesnt mean 
he was aware how much they were borrowing and the reasons that had been given for that. It also doesnt show he was supportive of the application (in the full knowledge of exactly 
what it was), rather than simply assisting his parents in something they had chosen to do. 
One of Mr and Mrs Gs children being aware of an application doesnt mean it was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs Gs needs  and it is that suitability that is the relevant factor here, not the 
level of knowledge of the children.
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs G told Responsible Life they had a need for such an exact  and 
large - sum as was borrowed; that is £136,358. In 2014 Mr G had said some of the first 
£60,000 further advance was to be used to upgrade their kitchen, then in 2018 it was again 
recorded that the kitchen was to be replaced using some of the funds, but no questions were 
recorded as being asked about that discrepancy. The valuation made no note of such 
extensive works needing to be done, and none of the money was spent.
It seems unlikely Mr and Mrs G were asked a clear, open and non-leading question about 
their health situation in 2018, as had they been asked an open question about their health 
then I think it is more likely than not that they would have disclosed their serious health 
issues at that time. 
Having considered the information recorded I dont think Responsible Life undertook the 
2018 sale with due diligence, or that the fact-finding process was carried out as thoroughly 
as it should have been. Putting everything together, Im not satisfied it is more likely than not 
that Responsible Life  in 2018 - met its duty to act in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests and 
treat them fairly.
Im pleased to see that Responsible Life has acknowledged my concerns about the 
information recorded, and that aside from this had had already put measures in place to 
improve the depth and quality of the information it records. I hope the pilot whereby there will 
be voice recordings is successful and can be rolled out fully as that could offer security to 
both parties if there is later a dispute about what was said. All that said, these arent things I 
would (or could) order Responsible Life to do going forward as the estate has asked, as that 
goes beyond my remit. I can only consider individual complaints, not anything on a wider 
scale.
Ive considered the full case afresh and taken into account everything Responsible Life has 
said in response to my provisional decision. Having done so Im satisfied the findings I 
reached in my provisional decision are fair and reasonable and as such Im not departing 
from those.
Putting things right
I understand the property was sold in February 2021 and the lifetime mortgage and further 
advances were redeemed. To that end I order Responsible Life to pay to the estate of 
Mrs G:
A sum equivalent to the interest that was charged on the 2018 further advance up 
until it was redeemed in February 2021. Responsible Life should add simple annual 
interest of 8%* to that sum, running from the date the mortgage was redeemed to 
the date of settlement.
A refund of the fees it cost to set up the 2018 further advance as those sums 
wouldnt have been incurred if the further advance hadnt been sold. I understand 
these to be a valuation fee of £867 and an application fee of £75. Responsible 
Life should add simple annual interest of 8%* to that sums, running from the date 
the payments were made (in the case of the application fee, that would be the 
date the further advance completed) to the date of settlement.* If Responsible Life considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element 
of my award it may do so but it should give the estate the necessary paperwork, if it 
asks for it, so it can reclaim any tax from HMRC if its entitled to do so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in respect of the 2018 sale, and order redress as Ive laid out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman