DRN-4310722
The complaint
Ms K says Barclays Bank UK PLC asked her for higher monthly payments after she took out 
a new product. She asks that her monthly payments are as set out in the product offer.
What happened
Ms Ks mortgage product was due to expire on 31 October 2022. She spoke to Barclays in 
early September 2022 and it sent her an offer for a new fixed rate product. This said her new 
monthly payments would be about £477.
The monthly payments set out in the product offer had been calculated using the wrong 
mortgage balance. Barclays re-calculated Ms Ks monthly payments using the correct 
mortgage balance. In early November 2022 Barclays wrote to Ms K saying her new monthly 
payments would be about £491. Ms K raised a complaint. 
Our investigator said while Barclays made errors the £250 it had paid was fair compensation 
for the effect on Ms K. She said it was fair for Barclays to re-calculate the monthly payments 
using the correct balance and this hadnt caused Ms K financial loss. 
Ms K didnt agree. She said shed have re-mortgaged elsewhere if shed been given the 
correct figures initially. She didnt consider £250 enough compensation for the higher 
monthly payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that Barclays made an error when it used the wrong mortgage balance to calculate 
Ms Ks monthly payments. The product offer said the monthly payments were based on a 
balance of £40,200. The actual balance was about £1,000 higher. As a result, the monthly 
payments in the product offer were wrong. I also think that Barclays took too long to explain 
what had happened. However, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to set 
Ms Ks monthly payments at the amount set out in the product offer. Ive explained why 
below.
When Ms K took out the new product she agreed to the terms of the product, such as the 
interest rate and how long the product will be in place for. The monthly payment isnt 
itself a term of the product  its calculated using the outstanding balance, remaining 
term and interest rate.
The product offer said the actual monthly payments may vary slightly as they will be 
based on the mortgage balance on the date the rate is applied. Ms K was also told this 
when she discussed the product with Barclays in early September 2022. So Ms K was 
made aware the amount of her monthly payments could be different. 
The product offer sets out the monthly payments to help customers in making a decision. 
I think Ms K was entitled to expect the monthly payments to be calculated correctly. 
Barclays gave Ms K correct information about her balance and her monthly payments on 
2 November 2022. 
I dont know that Ms K would have re-mortgaged elsewhere if shed been told her 
monthly payments would be £491. She hasnt provided evidence that she looked 
elsewhere and compared what her monthly payments and other costs would be.
If Ms K had re-mortgaged, the new lender would also have calculated her monthly 
payments based on the actual mortgage balance. 
Barclays re-calculated Ms Ks monthly payments using the correct mortgage balance. As 
Ms K is making correct monthly payments, I dont think shes suffered financial loss.
Ms K monthly payments are calculated to ensure the mortgage is repaid by the end of 
the term. If Ms K pays too little each month theres a risk the mortgage wont be repaid 
by the end of the term. The balance would also reduce more slowly, which means Ms K 
would pay more interest overall. 
But the information Barclays provided in the product offer wasnt correct, and this did result 
in upset and inconvenience to Ms K. When Ms K spoke to Barclays in early September 2022 
about taking out a new product, she said she wanted a fixed rate as she likes to know 
exactly what shes paying each month. It must have been upsetting for Ms K to be told in 
November 2022 that her monthly payments would be higher than shed expected. 
Barclays gave Ms K correct information about her monthly payments in early November 
2022. But it took too long to explain why the payments were higher than in the product offer. 
Taking all of this into account, I think the £250 offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the upset caused.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £250 to Ms K, if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman