DRN-1471752
The complaint
Mr S complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs handling of a claim under his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was in an accident which he didnt think was his fault, but the third-party driver disputed 
liability. The claim had not been settled when Mr S brought his complaint to us.
He said that RSA at first gave him the wrong information about liability, which meant that he 
didnt make a claim under the policy right away for his cars damage. He also said that RSA 
were taking too long to deal with his claim, which meant that his claim was still open at 
renewal and this greatly increased his premium. And he said that they didnt keep him 
informed about progress and gave him wrong information.
RSA accepted that their customer service had been poor and apologised. They offered him 
a total of £325 in compensation for this. But they said that disputed liability cases could take 
a long time to resolve. So they didnt think they had delayed in dealing with the third-party 
claim.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
RSA hadnt acted unfairly and that the compensation they had offered was reasonable. Mr S 
didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only look at what RSA did up to the date the investigator gave her view.
When Mr S reported his accident to RSA they said the accident was at least partly his fault 
and they didnt tell him to claim for his cars damage. The third party in the accident then 
made a claim against Mr Ss policy. RSA got a statement from Mr S and an independent 
witness, and then disputed liability with the third party. 
Mr S said that over the next few months he didnt hear from RSA, and he had to call them for 
information. I can see from their file that RSA explained to him that they were waiting to hear 
from the third partys solicitors. When they did, they also explained to him that liability was 
still in dispute and the third party intended to issue court action against Mr S, but that they 
would defend it.
 
Because liability was in dispute, this meant that the claim was still open when Mr Ss policy 
was up for renewal and so his premium increased. He felt that this wouldnt have happened 
if RSA had given him the correct advice during the initial claim call, as the claim would have 
been settled.
RSA admitted that they were too quick to tell him, when he reported the incident, that he 
would be held at least partly to blame, and they should have investigated more before 
deciding who was liable for the accident. This meant he didnt claim for the damage to his 
own car as early as he could have. However when he did claim, RSA refunded him the cost 
of the car repairs hed already paid for, less his policy excess, so that issue was resolved.
But, as the investigator explained, it is unlikely that their misinformation there would have 
affected the time taken to settle the claim. The third party disputed liability and that was 
outside RSAs control, but they were looking after Mr Ss interests in defending the claim 
against him. Its true that disputed liability claims can often take a long time to be settled. So 
although the claim had been going on for a while, I dont think that RSA caused any delays 
and so the time taken wasnt their fault. 
Having an open claim does affect premiums, but I think that RSA fairly explained that if he 
did renew with them, and in the end they settled the claim as non-fault against him, they 
would refund any additional premium he had had because of that. Alternatively, if he chose 
to insure with another insurer, RSA would write to that insurer explaining that the claim had 
become non-fault. I think that was reasonable of them. 
He said they gave him contradictory information about when the claim would be closed and 
when the insurance claims and underwriting database would be updated to show who was at 
fault for the accident. But I can see that RSA did explain to Mr S that, if they successfully 
defended his position, they would update the database accordingly and reinstate any no 
claims discount that had been affected. I think that was reasonable too and thats what we 
would expect them to do.
I appreciate that the whole matter was frustrating for Mr S. But I think that was mainly down 
to liability being in dispute. RSA accepted that theyd made mistakes with their 
communication, but they apologised for that and offered him a total of £325 in compensation 
for that inconvenience. I think that amount does reasonably reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him, and so I dont require RSA to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
