DRN-3412011
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are business partners. They complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) 
provided incorrect information about how much was outstanding on their commercial loan 
and when it would be repaid.
What happened
The partners took out a £130,000 loan in March 2012 to buy a commercial property. The 
loan was to be repaid over 15 years, with a fixed interest rate for the first ten years, reverting 
thereafter to a variable rate.
In the autumn of 2020, the partners asked about the remaining balance, with a view to 
repaying the loan. Over the following months, BoS gave a number of different answers. On 
two occasions, the bank said incorrectly there was nothing further to pay. Generally, the 
partners found it difficult to get answers from the bank. 
In March 2021, when for the second time the bank said there was a zero balance, the figure 
was communicated via the partners solicitor, during discussions about the discharge of the 
security. At the time, the partners believed this figure, but a month later were upset to hear 
that in fact there was a substantial balance remaining on the loan.
In the summer of 2021, Mrs J cashed in her pension. The commercial property was sold, 
and the loan was repaid in September 2021.
The partners complained that there were also delays in sending them a certificate of interest.
BoS acknowledged that it had given the partners poor service in a number of ways and had 
given wrong information about the cost of repaying the loan on three occasions. The bank 
paid £215 compensation and £46 for call costs. It apologised to the partners and later 
offered £250 further compensation for the information errors. 
The partners werent satisfied with the banks offer and referred the complaint to us. Mr and 
Mrs J said the banks errors had ruined their retirement plans and that the constant stress 
had been overwhelming. 
Having looked at the evidence, our investigator thought the banks offer was fair and 
reasonable. His main reasons were as follows, in summary:
Both parties agree that BoS provided incorrect figures for the outstanding balance on 
several occasions between October 2020 and March 2021. There were also 
unreasonable delays in sending information.
In November 2020, the bank verbally gave correct information about the outstanding 
balance, but the partners said they didnt rely on it because by then the bank had 
given various different versions of what was needed to repay the loan.
In March 2021 the bank provided incorrect information to the partners solicitor. This 
made the situation worse, given the understandable importance placed by the 
partners on formal communications with their legal adviser. Later the bank corrected 
the information.
The partners would have always had to repay the outstanding balance as required by 
the loan agreement. Therefore he couldnt see that the partners were made 
financially worse off by the banks errors.
Its not clear why the incorrect information would have forced the partners to repay 
the loan early. Nor had the investigator seen evidence that the partners retirement 
plans had been affected by the banks errors.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. They thought a compensation 
figure of £3,000 to £4,000 would be fair. They made the following points, in summary:
BoS wrote to the solicitor in late March 2021 saying there was nothing to repay. Then 
in mid to late April 2021, the partners were told in a call from the bank that a 
substantial amount would be due. It was between these dates that the partners had 
made their retirement plans.
If youre told youre not required to pay anything and make your plans at that point, 
then at a later stage youre told that in fact youre required to pay a substantial 
balance, its bound to impact those plans.
The current offer from the bank is derisory in the circumstances. The bank wont 
change or improve its practice if its not encouraged to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that BoS gave the partners poor customer service when they asked how 
much it would cost to repay their loan. It was a straightforward request, but the bank gave 
unclear and conflicting information over several months. At times the information was 
correct, but the partners confidence in the banks figures had been undermined by the errors 
and delays, until a figure was sent to their solicitor  when the bank said a zero balance was 
due. The partners took that to be correct, as it was in a formal communication, but a month 
later they were deeply disappointed to that hear it was wrong and that they still owed a 
substantial amount.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs J were dismayed and frustrated on hearing in April 2021 
that they still owed over £50,000, when theyd only recently been told there would be nothing 
to pay. They say theyd had dreams of extended holidays in the USA and Canada.
Having said that, I agree with the investigator that theres no evidence that the banks errors 
caused the partners any financial loss. If BoS had given consistently correct figures from the 
start of these events, then the partners would still have faced the same substantial amount 
to repay. So I dont see that Mr and Mrs J have been left with any fewer resources for their 
retirement than if the bank had given them the correct information from the autumn of 2020 
onwards.Putting things right
Compensation in this complaint should therefore be partly for the inconvenience and 
confusion caused by the banks errors and partly for the partners disappointment which 
followed the raising of their expectations in March and April 2021. In all the circumstances, 
and mindful that there was no financial loss, I think the banks offer of a further £250, 
bringing the total redress to £511, is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs J feel that the award should be set at a level that encourages the bank to 
improve its practice. But my role is to determine a fair and reasonable outcome of the 
individual dispute between the parties, not to act as a regulator or to punish the bank. I 
therefore dont require the bank to pay anything further than its offer of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc should pay its offer of £250 further 
compensation to Mr and Mrs J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman