DRN-2833001
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) didnt fairly 
assess the compensation it paid him when its error led to his pension fund transfer request 
being delayed. He also complains that Prudential hasnt compensated him fairly for the 
trouble and upset it caused him.
What happened
Mr W had a Prudential Retirement Account. In March 2020, he made two separate requests 
to Prudential. On 16 March 2020, he asked it to sell all the units held in one of his Prudential 
funds into the Cash Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Prudential said that theres a 28-
day waiting period applicable to this type of transaction. So it contacted Mr W to confirm that 
request would be completed on 14 April 2020. 
But on 20 March 2020, Mr W made a further request to transfer his Retirement Account to 
another provider. Prudential said that this request shouldve been actioned - and monies 
transferred - no later than 3 April 2020. But this didnt happen. However, Mr W made the 
same transfer request on behalf of his wife on the same day. He said that transfer completed 
on 27 March 2020.  
Prudential said that to protect its customers from unforeseen changes in fund values, where 
there is a difference of more than 10%, it has a process to obtain approval from the 
customer before completing the request. So on 27 March Prudential contacted Mr W. It said 
his fund had exceeded the 10% threshold. And needed to confirm if he still wanted the trade 
on his Retirement Account to go ahead. Mr W replied the same day saying he did. 
Mr W contacted Prudential on 31 March 2020 to request an update as his transfer hadnt yet 
completed. He called again on 2 April 2020. At this time he was told Prudential would 
investigate and call him back. Prudential called Mr W back on 3 April 2020 to tell him there 
would be a 28-day waiting period for his units to be sold. This meant it wouldnt be actioned 
until 14 April 2020. Due to the delayed transfer, Mr W decided to cancel the transfer to the 
provider hed initially chosen. He requested the transfer be made to a different provider. 
On 8 April 2020, Mr W contacted Prudential to ask why his transfer out hadnt been made. 
Prudential said it would be investigated. In the meantime, Mr Ws initial request to sell units 
and move them to Prudentials Cash SIPP completed on 14 April 2020. On 15 April 2020, Mr 
W requested that all monies in his Cash SIPP be transferred to the second provider hed 
chosen. 
On 21 April 2020 Mr W complained to Prudential as he was concerned hed been financially 
disadvantage by its errors. He felt compensation was due for the time he was out of the 
market. Prudential told him that in order to do this the money had to remain in his Retirement 
Account. So Mr W cancelled the transfer to the second provider hed chosen. Then 
Prudential incorrectly made the transfer anyway on the 28 April 2020. However, the funds 
were recalled. 
In its response to Mr Ws initial complaint, dated 14 May 2020, Prudential upheld his 
complaint. It said that itd wrongly determined that his first request needed to be completed 
before his transfer out could be actioned. In respect of his transfer from the Cash SIPP to the 
second provider, it paid £285.09 into his Retirement Account to put him back into the 
financial position he wouldve been in without its errors. Regarding his transfer out request, 
Prudential said that Mr W would have to invest with his initially chosen provider before it 
could calculate the loss its mistake had caused. And it paid Mr W £175 for the distress its 
errors had caused him. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr W replied the same day. He was unhappy that it couldnt 
pay any potential loss without him transferring to his initially chosen provider.
Prudential replied to this additional complaint on 19 May 2020. It reconfirmed that it could 
only assess any loss if Mr W completed the transfer hed initially requested.
So Mr W completed the required transfer. And in Prudentials next response to his complaint 
on 18 June 2020, it upheld his complaint that hed been financially disadvantaged by its 
errors in delaying his initial transfer request. It agreed to compensate him £21,340.82. But 
wouldnt reconsider its compensation for trouble and upset, as it felt it was fair.
Unhappy with this response, Mr W complained to Prudential again. He didnt agree with the 
date itd used to calculate his loss. And said hed now been told he hadnt needed to actually 
carry out the transfer to his initially chosen provider in order for the compensation to be 
calculated. He also felt hed lost out on investment growth with his initially chosen provider. 
In its final response on 23 June 2020, Prudential didnt uphold his complaints. 
Unhappy with Prudentials final response, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. He 
didnt understand why his initial transfer request had been treated differently from his wifes. 
He said they were in the same fund and suffered the same loss prior to transfer. So he 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator gave her initial view on 13 April 2021. She didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. She felt that Prudential had used an appropriate date for the compensation 
calculations on the initial transfer, despite that being different from the date Mr Ws wifes 
transfer had completed. So she felt that the compensation Prudential had paid was fair, 
noting that this service wouldve calculated the losses in the same way. She also felt that 
£175 compensation for the distress the errors had caused was fair and reasonable.
Mr W didnt agree. He noted that the transfer of his wifes plan was from the same fund, the 
same provider and the same type of plan. And that it was moving to the same provider as for 
his transfer. So he didnt think Prudential needed to treat the transfer requests differently. He 
said that he believed that the price date used for his wifes plan was the correct date to base 
his redress calculation on. He also said hed never accepted Prudentials compensation 
offer. He said he was never in a position to be able to buy the units that hed lost as a direct 
consequence of its errors. And he said he believes that the calculation should be made on 
the date that the offer is agreed. He said: The root of my inability to accept your findings is 
that I have never been in a position to put myself in the place I would have been if they had 
not made their mistakes. 
Our investigator asked Prudential for more information. She issued her second view on 13 
May 2021. She didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that Prudential had confirmed that Mr 
Ws wifes transfer value was within the 10% threshold. Itd also confirmed that his wasnt. 
So the process for his transfer had differed from that of his wifes and therefore wouldnt 
necessarily have taken the same time. She also noted that shed seen no evidence that Mr 
W hadnt accepted Prudentials compensation offer of £21,340.82 at the time it was offered. 
Overall, she felt that Prudential had taken reasonable steps to put things right after making the errors it did. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator. He didnt believe his funds had fallen by more than 
10%. And he still thought that the figure offered for distress and inconvenience Prudential 
had caused him was too low. He felt that compensation was due for the fact hed been made 
to arrange a transfer that hadnt been needed. He also didnt agree that hed accepted 
Prudentials compensation offer of £21,340.82. And said that: As it was never agreed or 
accepted, I believe that when a judgement is made on my loss it should be based on what is 
needed for me to be put back in the position that I should have been in had they not made all 
of their mistakes.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to decide here whether something has gone wrong. Prudential has accepted 
that it made errors which had a financial impact on Mr W. From what Ive seen, Mr W 
remains unhappy with the unit price date Prudential has used to calculate the financial 
impact of the delays it caused to his initial transfer request. He also feels that the 
compensation paid to him for distress and inconvenience should be reviewed. In particular 
because of the time and effort it took him to carry out what he felt was an unnecessary 
transfer to his initial chosen provider.
From what Ive seen, all other aspects of Mr Ws complaint have been resolved to his 
satisfaction.
So whats left for me to decide is if Prudential has provided fair compensation for both the 
financial impact and the distress and inconvenience its errors caused Mr W. And if I decide it 
hasnt, what Prudential should additionally do to put things right.
First I need to decide if the date Prudential has suggested Mr Ws transfer wouldve 
completed if thered been no errors is correct. 
What date should Mr Ws transfer have completed?
Mr W felt his transfer shouldve completed on 27 March 2020. He said his transfer was the 
same as his wifes, so shouldve completed on the same day. But Prudential said his was 
different as his transfer had been subject to the 10% threshold, which had required it to 
contact him to confirm he still wanted to proceed with the transfer. This hadnt been 
necessary for his wifes transfer.
Prudential says the transfer shouldve completed on 1 April 2020. It said that it contacted Mr 
W on 27 March 2020 to confirm he was happy to proceed with the transfer even though it 
differed by 10% from the previous value. He replied the same day, so the sale of units was 
requested the following day.  As this was a weekend day, if no errors had occurred, the 
transfer wouldve been completed the next working day - 30 March 2020. Mr W had provided 
evidence that the funds wouldve been purchased two working days later. So Prudential 
concluded that his transfer wouldve completed on 1 April 2020. 
Mr W couldnt understand why his fund had been subject to the 10% threshold. He told this 
service: I dont believe my funds fell by 10% as I put my instruction in after the application of 
the Mid Term reduction, I was invested in the same fund as my wife which suffered the same variations, so I have no understanding as to how these were affected differently. It makes no 
sense to me. So this service asked Prudential to confirm why Mr Ws fund had been 
affected by the 10% parameter but his wifes hadnt. 
Prudential confirmed that Mr Ws approximate transfer value, quoted on the transfer request, 
was higher by more than 10% of the actual transfer value. But that his wifes wasnt. So her 
transfer didnt require a further check before it could be carried out.
This service asked for confirmation from Prudential that Mr Ws fund shouldve been 
subjected to the 10% threshold. It provided information showing that the fund value on the 
request date of 19 March 2020 was more than 10% greater than its value on 27 March 2020 
 the date it contacted Mr W. Prudential also confirmed that the Unit Price Adjustment (Mid 
Term reduction) was applied on 17 March 2020.
From what Ive seen, Mr Ws transfer request required an extra step that his wifes transfer 
did not. Therefore Im satisfied that the calculation date Prudential has suggested is 
appropriate. Ill now look at how the calculation of the financial impact on Mr W was carried 
out.
Financial impact
Mr W calculated his own loss as follows:
He assumed that the transfer wouldve taken place on the same date as his wifes had. And 
used:
a transfer value of £268,161.20 (the amount moved into the Cash SIPP) 
a unit price of 183.20, as used for his wifes transfer
Receiving provider Unit Price at 5 June 2020 of 214.20 
That days fund value of £289,821.74
Using these figures, he calculated that he shouldve £313,536.70 in his account. Therefore 
the loss was £313,536.70 - £289,821.7, or £23,714.96
Prudential used most of the same information to carry out its own compensation calculation. 
Its calculation only differed in the following areas:
It used a transfer value of £267,291.83 instead of the figure of £268,161.20 Mr W had 
used
It used a unit price of 184.00 from 1 April 2020, the date it said the transfer wouldve 
completed
Prudentials calculations led to a compensation payment of £21,340.82. It paid him this 
amount through his bank account. 
Mr W complained that the price date Prudential used was incorrect, as he felt it shouldve 
used the unit price thatd been used for his wifes transfer. But, as I noted in the previous 
section, I dont agree. 
From what Ive seen, Prudential used the correct unit price. Mr Ws transfer was always 
likely to take longer than his wifes, given his transfer fell outside Prudentials 10% parameter. Prudentials process requires it to obtain approval from any customer in this 
situation. And based on the evidence, Im satisfied that 1 April 2020 is the correct date to use 
for this calculation. I acknowledge that Mr W also said that the compensation Prudential 
calculated wasnt enough as it didnt enable him to buy the number of units he wouldve had 
if the transfer had gone ahead without error. But Prudential calculated that there was a 
shortfall of 9,963.033 units at the date the transfer shouldve gone ahead. It then used the 
unit price on the day Mr Ws transfer completed to calculate the financial loss. I consider that 
this is fair under the circumstances here. Ill explain why.
Mr W had expressed no desire to transfer to his initially chosen provider after deciding 
instead to transfer elsewhere. Hed only transferred there so that Prudential could calculate 
his financial loss due to the delays its error had caused. So I can see why Prudential 
calculated that loss by assessing the cost of correcting the impact of its errors on the day the 
transfer was invested. I consider that it was reasonable for Prudential to assume that Mr W 
didnt want to buy additional units in a fund he hadnt wanted to transfer into. Its 19 May 
2020 response to Mr Ws complaint said the following: If you have suffered a financial loss, 
it will be paid to you directly as an ex-gratia payment. From what Ive seen, Mr W didnt 
disagree with this approach at the time. 
Having carried out an appropriate assessment of the financial impact on Mr W of the delays, 
I consider that Prudentials decision to pay the amount lost directly to Mr W was fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances. Ive seen no evidence of any objections at the time 
from Mr W. Nor have I seen evidence that he understood the payment to be an interim one. I 
do take Mr Ws point that if this service were to find Prudentials redress to be incorrect, the 
payment would effectively become an interim payment at that point. Prudential agree that 
this is the case. It said: In respect of the compensation paid, our process is to make 
payment where we feel a loss has been incurred. This is not binding on the customer and 
they are still able to take their complaint to the relevant regulatory body to review. But Im 
not persuaded that there was anything wrong with Prudentials calculation. And I wont be 
asking it to do any more in respect of this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Time taken to arrange the pension transfer and Distress and Inconvenience 
Mr W said that the £175 compensation Prudential had paid him for the distress and 
inconvenience its errors had caused him was calculated before he felt forced to complete an 
additional pension transfer. He said that the commercial cost of completing such a transfer 
would be several thousand pounds. So he asked Prudential to review its offer.
Prudential said Mr W could submit a fully detailed invoice for any additional costs hed 
incurred when completing the transfer. But it declined to cover the commercial cost of 
making a transfer. It explained that it wouldnt pay: an amount equivalent to the overall level 
of professional fee that specialist advisers may charge.
Prudential also said that Mr Ws original complaint was that the transfer he requested wasnt 
actioned as expected. It said if thered been no errors, the transfer wouldve been completed. 
And Mr W wouldve incurred the costs associated with it. As such it couldnt agree it had 
caused any costs associated with the transfer.
Prudential also explained that when it assesses the distress and inconvenience its caused, it 
uses guidance from this service. And it also looks at cases of a similar nature, so that all 
complaints are dealt with in a consistent manner. It reviewed the compensation for distress 
and inconvenience it had paid Mr W, but didnt agree that a higher payment was justified. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr W did have to complete the pension transfer 
hed initially requested in order to receive compensation for the financial loss Prudentials errors had caused him. But Im not persuaded that he had to do additional work because of 
this. I agree with Prudential that he wouldve had to do this anyway for his original transfer 
request to go ahead. So I wont be asking Prudential to cover any specific costs here.
In terms of the £175 Prudential paid for distress and inconvenience, I need to decide if I think 
thats fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. I need to consider the 
impact its had on Mr W. I also need to consider the steps Prudential took to put things right. 
And the speed with which it corrected its errors.
From what Ive seen, Prudential responded quickly to Mr Ws complaints. It recognised its 
errors, apologised and offered compensation. It communicated clearly with Mr W about the 
steps it would take  and the steps he would need to take  in order for the financial impact 
its errors had caused to be corrected. I can see that it took several weeks for the redress to 
be calculated and paid. But I also note that Prudentials communications with Mr W were 
clear about what needed to happen before payment could be made.
I do acknowledge that Prudentials errors required a reasonable effort by Mr W to sort out. 
And Mr W has noted that he was particularly busy at work during the period his complaint 
was being worked on, so I can see that it wouldve been stressful having to sort it out. But I 
consider that its communication with Mr W throughout the process was clear. Taking 
everything into account, I agree with Prudential that the compensation its already paid for 
distress and inconvenience was fair and reasonable under the circumstances of this 
complaint.  
I know my decision will disappoint Mr W, but Im satisfied that Prudential took appropriate 
steps to put things right in a reasonable timeframe. So I wont be asking it to do anything 
else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman