DRN-3878298
The complaint
Mr P complains that IG Index Limited sold his shares without his agreement.
What happened
Mr P is resident in the EU. Following Brexit, IG Index contacted Mr P to tell him it could no 
longer service his account and that he needed to close any open positions or transfer them 
to another provider by 31 March 2021.
Mr P had two shareholdings in his account. He sold one holding on 30 March 2021. He 
couldnt sell the other holding, which Ill refer to as D, through IG Indexs online platform, 
because it could only be traded over the counter (OTC). Mr P phoned IG Index on 
30 March and was told that D shares couldnt be sold through IG Index at all. He says he 
was told hed either need to wait for the shares to be re-listed, wait for the company to make 
a distribution, or hed need to give instructions to transfer the shares to a broker who could 
deal OTC. Mr P says he was told there was no deadline for this and that the shares would 
remain in his account.
Mr P gave instructions to transfer D shares to his bank account on 15 May but was told the 
shares had been sold on 6 April.
Mr P says the shares were sold at US$1.09 without his agreement and the price has since 
risen. He wants IG Index to repurchase the shares and transfer them to his chosen provider.
IG Index said Mr P was given the wrong information during the call on 30 March. But that, if 
he hadnt been misinformed, he could have sold his shares that day for the same price that 
was achieved on 6 April. So IG Index didnt think hed made a financial loss. It said it sold his 
shares as set out in its various written communications with Mr P and that it had acted in line 
with the agreed terms and conditions. It offered to pay him £200 as an apology and a 
gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that Mr P had been treated unfairly or suffered a financial disadvantage because of 
the wrong information hed been given. He thought IG Indexs offer of £200 was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree. He replied in some detail to say, in summary, that:
The investigator wrongly said that IG Index had a UK regulatory obligation to sell his 
shares. The FCA didnt prevent IG Index from continuing to service his account.
The investigator said IG Index had to sell his shares to comply with UK law. Hed like to 
understand what legislation the investigator is referring to.
If he hadnt been given wrong information on 30 March, he would have given his 
instruction to transfer the shares to his chosen provider on that day.
IG Index failed to give him timely and correct information as required by the FCA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Following Brexit, IG Index decided it couldnt continue to service accounts for consumers 
resident in the European Economic Area (EEA). It contacted Mr P to let him know that he 
would need to sell or transfer his investments and arrange to close his account. It said it 
needed him to do this by 31 March 2021.
I find that IG Index acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions in giving Mr P notice of 
the closure of his account. If it had continued to provide a service to Mr P, it wouldve 
needed to comply with local law and regulations. So, having taken the commercial decision 
not to provide a service, it needed to ensure Mr Ps shares were sold or transferred by an 
agreed date to ensure it wasnt in breach of those local laws and regulations.
Mr P phoned IG Index on 30 March. Ive listened to this call and I think Mr P made it clear 
that he wanted to sell both of his shareholdings. He was able to sell one of his holdings 
online. He told IG Index he couldnt sell D shares online and that it would have to be dealt 
manually. IG Index gave him the wrong information during this call. It told Mr P it couldnt sell 
D shares and that, if he wanted to sell, hed have to transfer the shares to another broker. It 
told him there was no deadline for these instructions and that his account would remain open 
until such time as the shares could be sold, a cash settlement was received, or Mr P 
provided transfer instructions. 
Mr P queried this information  because all other IG Indexs communications gave a 
31 March deadline for instructions. But he was told this could be ignored.
Following his complaint, IG Index accepted Mr P was given the wrong information during the 
phone call. It apologised and offered to pay him £200 as a gesture of goodwill. Ive carefully 
considered whether it needs to do more but have concluded its offer is fair and reasonable. 
Let me explain why.
Mr P told us that, if he hadnt been given the wrong information, he would have given 
instructions  on 30 March  to transfer D shares to another provider. Im sorry, but I dont 
agree. I say this because, firstly, during the call Mr P made it reasonably clear that his 
intention was to sell D shares  and he knew he needed to do this before 31 March. He said:
Im not able to sell all of my shares, I need help;
I want to sell the shares and transfer the money;
the other ones [D shares], maybe because theyre in the secondary market, I cant 
sell them on your website, so you need to do it manually;
I dont want to find another broker, I want to get rid of them.And, secondly, Mr P didnt have a broker he knew who would be able to accept and trade his 
holding of D shares. So I dont think he was in a position to give transfer instructions on 
30 March, even if thats what he wanted to do.
IG Index could have taken an order to sell D shares during Mr Ps call on 30 March. If IG 
Index hadnt given Mr P the wrong information, I think he would  more likely than not  have 
given instructions to sell D shares during this call.  
My aim, when a business has done something wrong, is to put the consumer back in the 
position theyd be in if the mistake hadnt been made. For the reasons Ive explained, I think 
that, if IG Index hadnt given Mr P the wrong information, hed have given instructions to sell 
D shares on 30 March 2021. The highest price for D shares on that day was US$1.09. And 
that is the price that was received when IG Index sold Mr Ps D shares on 6 April. So I dont 
find Mr P is in a worse financial position because of the wrong information he was given.
I find that, with the exception of the information Mr P was given during the call on 30 March, 
IG Index made it reasonably clear that it needed Mr Ps instructions by 31 March 2021. And 
that it made it reasonably clear that it would sell his shares if it didnt receive his instructions 
by that date. For these reasons, I dont find it treated Mr P unfairly when it sold his holding of 
D shares on 6 April 2021.
I understand Mr Ps strength of feeling on this matter. And I can understand, having seen the 
price of D shares rise, why he was upset to find IG Index had sold his shares  and after it 
had told him it couldnt. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find IG Index has treated 
Mr P unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. And that, if it hasnt already credited his 
account with £200, it should arrange to pay that to him now.
My final decision
My final decision is that IG Index Limited should pay Mr P £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the wrong information it gave him, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman