DRN-4367794
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc trading as TSB unfairly recorded a default on his credit 
file. 
What happened
Mr R had a current account TSB. In August 2022 Mr R completed a current account switch 
to another bank but the full balance of his existing account with TSB wasnt repaid. As a 
result, in November 2022 Mr R agreed a payment plan to repay the outstanding balance. 
Mr R made his first payment but it wasnt initially credited to the account. On 28 November 
2022 Mr R spoke with an agent at TSB and was advised his payment had gone into a 
holding account. The payment was located and applied to Mr Rs account balance. The 
agent advised Mr R to include his sort code and account number as the reference on future 
payments. 
Mr R made his payment in December 2022 and has told us he used his name as a 
reference. On 26 January 2023 Mr R made another payment using his name as the 
reference. But the payment wasnt credited to Mr Rs account and TSB contacted him on 3 
February 2023. During the call, Mr R confirmed hed made the payment from his new bank 
account. 
During Mr Rs calls with TSB, agents explained that as his payment hadnt been received in 
line with the payment plan hed agreed it had failed. As a result, TSB said Mr R would need 
to complete a new assessment to set up a new payment plan. Mr Rs explained that setting 
up the original payment plan in November 2022 was time consuming and he didnt want to 
have to go through the same process given hed made the payment. It subsequently came to 
light Mr Rs use of his name as the reference meant the payment he sent wasnt credited to 
his account. 
Mr R made up the payment which was received by TSB on 6 February 2023. On the same 
day, TSB called Mr R to discuss his account and arrange a new payment plan. During the 
second call, TSB recorded Mr R intended to call back but no further contact was received. 
Mr R continued to make payments in line with the payment plan agreed in November 2022. 
But TSB sent Mr R a letter on 21 February 2023 explaining he needed to clear the balance 
or call to discuss options otherwise there would be an impact to his credit file. As no further 
contact from Mr R was received TSB it issued another letter on 15 March 2022 explaining 
the account balance was due and a default had been recorded. 
TSB issued a final response to Mr Rs complaint but didnt agree it had made a mistake or 
acted unfairly. TSB said Mr Rs payment plan was broken when it failed to receive the 
January 2023 payment as expected. As a result, TSB said it needed to go through the 
process of setting up a new payment plan with Mr R before it could agree to accept further 
payments on the same basis. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Rs complaint. They werent persuaded TSB had 
acted unfairly by closing Mr Rs account and recording a default and didnt uphold his 
complaint. Mr R asked to appeal and said TSB had failed to advise him it wouldnt put the 
matter on hold whilst it investigated his complaint. Mr R added that if TSB had advised the 
matter wasnt on hold he wouldve made a payment to clear the balance or agreed another 
payment plan. Mr R also reiterated that hed made a payment in January 2023. As Mr R 
asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr R feels TSBs decision to record a default on his credit file was 
unfair, especially as he made a payment on 26 January 2023. But, I have to take all the 
available information into account when deciding whether TSB has made a mistake or 
treated Mr R unfairly. And I think its fair to say that TSB has provided consistent information 
to Mr R during the matter in question. 
When Mr R set up the payment plan his first payment wasnt automatically credited to his 
account. As a result, Mr R spoke with TSB on 28 November 2022 and his payment was 
located in a suspense account and applied to the outstanding balance. During the call, the 
agent Mr R spoke with specifically said that going forward he should use his sort code and 
account number as the reference so it could be credited to his balance without delay. Ive 
listened to the call and Im satisfied TSBs agent gave clear guidance on how to make the 
payments. 
Mr R has pointed out his December 2022 payment used his name as a reference and was 
successfully applied. But I think the fact the January 2023 payment was not shows that using 
anything except the account details could lead to payments being lost and delays. 
I also think its fair to say that TSB didnt immediately apply the default to Mr Rs credit file. 
On 3 February 2023 TSBs agents explained Mr R would need to set up a new payment 
plan. I appreciate Mr R was unhappy with that response. But as the payment wasnt received 
as agreed, Im satisfied TSB was reasonably able to ask Mr R to revisit the payment plan 
hed previously agreed. I can see that TSB called Mr R back twice on 6 February 2023. One 
call wasnt answered and during the other, Mr R advised he was driving and unable to 
speak. No call back was received. 
I note TSB sent Mr R a letter on 21 February 2023 explaining no payment plan was in place 
and asking for either immediate repayment or contact to discuss the outstanding balance. 
Whilst I can see Mr R continued to make payments, Im satisfied TSB confirmed the status of 
his account and that urgent action was required. Without further contact or a full payment 
from Mr R, Im satisfied it was fair to TSB to review the account and take the decision to 
apply a default. 
Mr Rs explained he expected TSB to place the matter on hold when he raised a complaint. 
But Ive not seen anything that shows TSB agreed to place collections activities on hold and 
Im satisfied the correspondence it sent him confirmed he needed to urgently get in touch or 
make a payment. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr R but as I havent found evidence that shows TSB made a 
mistake or treated him unfairly Im not telling it to do anything else.
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman