DRN-2875412
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) isnt giving her £500 towards 
the cost of a new boiler when her old one was declared by a third party engineer to be 
beyond economic repair.
In this decision references will be made to HomeServe Membership Limited (HomeServe) 
who are claims managers for Aviva who provide the insurance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties and have been summarised by 
our investigator in his view so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on the 
reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons.
The terms and conditions of Miss Ps policy, which were referred to in our 
investigators view, include the following, (with my emphasis underlined): 
On assessment of your main heating system, our engineer may declare it to be 
beyond economical repair 
The policy defines engineer as 
a person employed or authorised (or both) by HomeServe to assist with your 
emergency.
I consider that this make it clear that it needs to be a HomeServe appointed engineer 
who decides whether a boiler is beyond economical repair. HomeServes own 
engineer wasn't given the opportunity to attend to see if the boiler could be repaired 
before Aviva was required to make a financial contribution towards a new boiler.
The policy also says:
In the unlikely event that your main heating system is declared beyond 
economical repair, we will advise you to replace it and will contribute £500.00 
towards the cost of a new boiler or electric heater. 
In my view it is clear that we refers to HomeServe, whose engineer will have made 
the assessment.
The policy also states that it doesnt cover the following:
the costs of any work carried out by you or people not authorized by us in 
advance.
Miss Ps boiler was declared to be beyond economical repair by her own engineer 
who also fitted a new boiler, and not by an engineer employed or authorized by 
HomeServe as the policy requires. As Miss Ps engineer wasnt authorized by 
HomeServe to fit a new boiler, I consider that the financial contribution towards a new 
boiler isnt available in these circumstances.
Miss P didnt contact HomeServe in advance, as the policy requires in the event of 
any claim. Miss P says instead she tried to call her bank through whom the policy 
was provided. I consider its reasonable for Aviva to require a claim to be reported to 
its agents before a customer arranges for work which will involve a claim against 
Aviva. 
In the circumstances, I dont consider that Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in not making a payment to Miss P towards her new boiler. I consider it is acting in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman