DRN-3706905
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs U complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly voided their policy (due to 
misrepresentation), which meant their claim wasnt considered under their home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs U made a claim to QIC for a theft of belongings from their home. QIC 
appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim.
The claim included many items of valuable jewellery. The loss adjuster had the jewellery 
valued and determined the claim was for just under £90,000 and included 16 items that were 
valued above QICs single article limit of £2,000.
When Mr B and Mrs U took out their policy, they said the value of their valuable contents 
was lower than £10,000. So, QIC said a misrepresentation was made, as the value of their 
valuable contents was significantly more than what was declared by Mr B and Mrs U when 
they applied for the policy. QIC said if they had known the true value of the contents, it 
wouldnt have offered Mr B and Mrs U a policy. QIC voided the policy and cancelled it for the 
whole policy term. It refunded Mr B and Mrs U the premiums they had paid for that policy 
year.
Mr B and Mrs U thinks this is unfair. They said they completed the application honestly and 
want their claim paid up to the policy limits. They said they purchased the jewellery abroad at 
a much lower cost.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Mr B and Mrs U made a 
careless misrepresentation when taking out their policy (i.e. he didnt think it was 
deliberate). As QIC wouldnt have offered a policy if it had known the true facts, he thought 
QIC had been fair in voiding the policy and not considering the claim. Mr B and Mrs U 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC has treated Mr B and Mrs Us application for a policy as one of misrepresentation, so I 
have considered the complaint from this perspective to see if QIC has acted reasonably.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
So, Ive considered Mr B and Mrs Us circumstances in respect to CIDRA.
Was there a misrepresentation?
The policy only covered valuables up to a limit of £10,000 in total. QIC said Mr B and Mrs U 
had underinsured their valuables, so had misrepresented the value of the items they wanted 
insured when they took out the policy.
As Mr B and Mrs Us claim was for a higher amount than £10,000, I think QIC has 
reasonably shown that Mr B and Mrs U made a misrepresentation when completing their 
application. This is important as it meant QIC offered a policy to Mr B and Mrs U using 
incorrect facts, so it couldnt accurately calculate the risk it was taking on to insure their 
valuables.
Did the consumer take reasonable care?
Ive considered the questions that were asked of Mr B and Mrs U when taking out the policy 
to see if they took reasonable care in providing their answers. 
Mr B and Mrs U bought their policy via a comparison website and they were transferred to 
QICs website to complete the detail of the policy application. QIC has provided details of the 
application journey that Mr B and Mrs U followed, so I have reviewed this.
Mr B and Mrs U were asked if their valuables were worth less than £10,000 and they 
responded no. However, QIC validated the claim value at around £90,000. Mr B and Mrs U 
explained that they bought the items that had been stolen abroad at a much lower cost. They 
have provided a spreadsheet that shows that they estimate the jewellery could be purchased 
abroad at a cost of around £33,000.
Therefore, given Mr B and Mrs U had a good idea the value of their valuables was higher 
than £10,000. I think QIC has been reasonable in saying they didnt take reasonable care 
when completing their application.
I appreciate what Mr B and Mrs U have said that when they made their claim they felt they 
were within the policy limits for household items. However, this doesnt alter that they didnt 
take reasonable care when completing their application when they declared their valuables 
were worth under £10,000.
Was the misrepresentation qualifying? 
QIC said it wouldnt have offered Mr B and Mrs U the insurance policy if it had known about 
the true value of their valuables. Insurers will only offer policies to consumers in certain 
circumstances as it is important to them to be able to manage the level of risk they take 
when providing insurance cover. QIC has shared its underwriting criteria, which are the rules 
it applies when offering policies. These rules confirm that QIC wouldnt have offered Mr B 
and Mrs U a policy if it knew about the true value of their valuables. Therefore, QIC has been 
fair to say the misrepresentation was qualifying.
Was the misrepresentation deliberate or careless?QIC hasnt concluded the misrepresentation was deliberate, so was comfortable that Mr B 
and Mrs U had only made the misrepresentation carelessly. I think this was a fair outcome.
If the misrepresentation was deliberate, QIC wouldve been entitled under CIDRA to keep 
the premiums Mr B and Mrs U had paid already on their policy. However, it refunded these, 
which was reasonable in the circumstances.
QIC decided to void the contract and it wouldnt consider Mr B and Mrs U claim for the theft. 
As these remedies are consistent with the remedies set out under CIDRA, I think QIC has 
treated Mr B and Mrs U fairly. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate that information now recorded about Mr B and Mrs U has made it harder for 
them to take out new policies, but as the information recorded by QIC is correct and fair, Im 
not going to ask them to do change anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require QIC Europe Ltd to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman