DRN-4262869
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complained about how Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) 
dealt with a claim under a home insurance policy.
As Mr M seemed to deal with the claim and complaint, I will normally only refer to him.
What happened
Mr M contacted Acromas to make a claim when he found water damage to a ceiling and 
could hear a dripping noise when it was raining. Acromas investigated the claim and 
declined it because it said no evidence was found that the damage was due to the weather 
and that it wouldnt be considered accidental damage.
When Mr M complained, Acromas maintained its decision to decline the claim. It also said 
that although Mr M wanted the source of the damage to be located using the trace and 
access part of the policy, the cover only applied to water or oil pipes, so the cover didnt 
apply to Mr Ms circumstances.
So, Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Mr M 
didnt know where the leak was coming from and the trace and access part of the policy 
covered finding the source of water damage. So, she said Acromas should locate the leak 
that affected the house and a second leak in the garage and pay £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to Mr M.
As Acromas didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy wording and it said:
4. Trace and access We will pay the costs, which we have agreed to in advance, for 
locating the source of water or oil damage including the reinstatement of any wall, flooring or 
ceiling removed or damaged during the search and the repair of any leaking water or oil 
pipes.
Mr M wanted to use trace and access to find the source of water damage to his home. 
Acromas has said it wasnt possible to claim under this part of the policy because the leak 
wasnt from a pipe. Im aware trace and access would normally apply in circumstances such 
as an escape of water from a pipe. However, the wording of the policy is broader than that 
and said it covered locating the source of water damage and reinstatement work. It didnt 
limit it to an escape of water or a leak from a pipe. In my view, the reference to a water pipe 
seems to be written in a way that suggests it is one of the things that would be repaired 
under the policy, not that it had to be the source of the water damage.
Although Acromas might not have intended to cover broader circumstances, such as Mr Ms, 
Acromas was responsible for the wording of the policy and needed to ensure it was clearly 
written and accurately described what was covered under the policy. I think it is reasonable 
to interpret the wording of the policy as covering Mr Ms circumstances. 
Acromas also seems to have suggested Mr M knew that the source of the leak was the roof. 
However, Mr M has said he doesnt know the exact location of it, which is why he wants to 
use trace and access. I think it is reasonable that he wants the exact location to be identified 
and that this is carried out under the policy. 
As a result, I think Acromas should locate the source of the water damage to Mr Ms home, 
both to the ceiling and within the garage, if he wants Acromas to do so. Acromas should also 
reconsider the claim to see if the water damage itself is covered by the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
I also think Mr M has been caused inconvenience by the way Acromas has dealt with his 
claim. As a result, I require Acromas to pay Mr M £100 compensation.
Putting things right
Acromas should locate the source of the leak affecting the ceiling and the garage using the 
trace and access part of the policy. It should also reconsider the water damage under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy and pay £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited to:
Under the trace and access part of the policy, locate the source of the leak that affected 
the ceiling and caused the leak in the garage if Mr M and Mrs M want it to do so
Reconsider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Pay Mr M and Mrs M £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman