The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Gresham Insurance Company Limited has declined a claim they 
made on their buildings insurance policy for damage to their home caused by subsidence.
Whilst the policy is in joint names, for ease, Ive referred to all comments and actions as 
being Mr Ws.
What happened
In 2012, Mr W noticed damage to his home. He contacted his insurer who found the cause 
of damage to be subsidence. It identified two oak trees close to Mr Ws home as the 
problem. Gresham thought both trees should be removed, but after discussions with Mr W it 
was agreed one would be removed entirely and the other was cut down to reduce its size by 
40%.
The insurer told Mr W hed need to maintain the remaining oak tree and have it cut every two 
years to prevent future issues.
In 2019, Mr W contacted Gresham again as hed noticed new damage to his home. On 
inspection, Gresham said that the oak tree which was previously reduced in size hadnt been 
maintained. So it had grown again and was the cause of the new damage. Gresham 
declined Mr Ws claim, it said because he hadnt maintained the tree, it wouldnt cover any 
damage caused by it.
Mr W provided some invoices he says show the tree was maintained, but Gresham didnt 
agree to change its mind. It thought the invoices provided by Mr W of around £800 were too 
cheap to cover proper maintenance of the tree.
Our investigator thought Gresham had acted reasonably in declining the claim. He thought it 
was fair for Gresham to rely on its experts who said the most likely cause of the new 
damage was the oak tree which had been allowed to grow considerably. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said since bringing to complaint to our service hed hired an arborist 
who had quoted £800 to reduce the oak tree size. He said this showed he had maintained 
the tree. He said his arborist also told him the most likely cause was the soil on which        
Mr Ws house sits, rather than the tree.
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has come to me to decide.
DRN-1967755What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to make Gresham do anything differently.
Gresham has declined the claim as its said Mr W hasnt met the general condition under his 
policy to:
take all reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, loss or damage.
Ive seen the letter Gresham sent Mr W in 2012 following the previous claim. It says 
Mr W should maintain the tree every two years.
Mr W accepts that he understood he needed to maintain the tree. So the only thing for me to 
consider is whether, on balance, I think Mr W has taken all reasonable precaution to prevent 
damage.
I accept its possible that Mr W has maintained the tree, but based on everything Ive seen I 
dont think thats most likely. Gresham hasnt been able to tell me the exact height of the tree 
after its reduction in 2012. And its letter to Mr W from the time doesnt specify what height or 
size the tree needs to be maintained at. So its difficult to know whether its been maintained 
sufficiently. But the arborists report from 2020 notes the current tree height at 17 metres. In 
his opinion, the diameter of the regrowth of the tree suggests it hasnt been reduced back to 
its 2012 level for a number of years, if at all. 
The invoices Mr Ws provided arent detailed in terms of the work that was carried out on the 
oak tree, such as detailing how much the crown of the tree was reduced by. And he hasnt 
provided this service with anything else, such as testimony from those who maintained the 
tree, that persuades me against what Greshams arborist has said. 
Following our investigators involvement, Mr W provided a quote from an arborist for 
reducing the tree. This did match an earlier quote hed been given of around £800. But the 
invoice isnt clear on what work would be carried out and this alone doesnt persuade me 
that Greshams arborist shouldnt be relied on.
 Mr W says his arborist also told him they didnt think the cause of the subsidence was the 
tree, but they couldnt write this down as they werent insured to give opinions. Whilst Ive 
considered this testimony, I dont find it as persuasive as the comments made by Greshams 
arborist who is an expert in this area. 
Mr W said the subsidence could be caused by other vegetation on his property, and that 
hasnt been considered. The 2020 report does outline a number of other trees and shrubs 
close to Mr Ws property that could cause future issues if no action is taken. But due to the 
size of the oak tree and the proximity to Mr Ws house, it was concluded this was the most 
likely cause of the internal damage. I havent been provided with any other evidence which 
persuades me Gresham has acted unfairly in relying on this report.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Gresham Insurance Company Limited to do anything 
differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman