DRN-2263710
The complaint
Mrs V, on behalf of G, complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim under 
Gs business protection insurance policy.
What happened
G has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Mrs V initially made a claim on 
that policy to cover Gs losses arising out of the closure of G on 14 March 2020 due to a 
member of staff reporting Covid 19 symptoms. G then closed as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid 19.
Covea declined the claim because it said G didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming 
for. Mrs V didnt agree. She said the closure had a considerable financial impact on G and 
that unless its claim was paid, G would not be able to stay afloat. She also made a number 
of detailed submissions. Ive summarised the main ones below:
The policy is called a comprehensive all risks policy so should extend to covering this 
claim;
Covea have referred to The Public Health regulations 1988 but the list of diseases they 
say are covered by the policy arent the same as the diseases noted in the legislation.
Covid-19 became a notifiable disease on the Governments list of diseases before the 
national imposed lockdown. Covea shouldve reflected this in the level of cover they 
were offering.
The policys reference to damage is unclear and there are particular instances where 
Covid-19 could fall under the definition of physical damage. 
 
Our investigator considered Gs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation G found itself in. Mrs V 
doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on G. But for the 
same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
The type of cover G is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance.  There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy G took out. As such Ive considered every aspect of 
the policy G holds with Covea to determine whether there are any sections that would 
require Covea to meet the claim like the one G is making. 
Mrs V has told us that G closed its doors on 14 March 2020 due to a member of staff 
reporting Covid-19 symptoms and then again on 20 March 2020 to the Government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of Gs business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time in its current form.
The policy provides cover for several things, including compulsory closure, damage, 
and prevention of access. Ive considered those sections below.
Compulsory Closure
The Covid 19 pandemic was intended to be controlled by way of a Government-imposed 
lockdown. Mrs V feels that the compulsory closure section of the policy offers cover in these 
circumstances. Ive considered what shes said about this and though I accept that this 
section offers cover in certain circumstances, I dont believe any of those apply here. 
Under this section the policy covers:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory closure by a 
public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises arising from:
a) discovery of a Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease at the Premises
b) foreign or deleterious matter in food or drink sold, supplied or provided at the Premises
c) the occurrence at the Premises of murder, manslaughter, suicide or rape
d) defective sanitation or the presence of vermin or pests.
Based on the circumstances of the claim, there needed to be a discovery of Notifiable 
Human Infectious or Contagious Disease at the insured premises.
The term Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease is defined as:
 
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, Food 
poisoning, Leptospirosis, Legionellosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal 
septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, 
Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, 
Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis 
B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough, Yellow fever.
 
No other disease shall be added to the above list without Our prior written consent. 
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy 
provides G with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something Covea 
might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present 
pandemic. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. Gs policy sets out a list of the illnesses which are 
covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover 
for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. Rather the policy is 
clear that no other disease shall be added to the defined list without Coveas prior written 
consent. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Covea provided such consent in this 
case. 
I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular 
illnesses. There are many potential illnesses that the policy does not cover, including SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above. 
Ive also given thought to whether Covid 19 might fall under plague which is one of the 
illnesses specified in the policy terms, but I dont think it does.  Whilst the policy does not 
define what plague is, it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious 
disease in its own right caused by a particular bacterium.   Plague appears as a specified 
disease in the Governments list of notifiable diseases and it is caused by the bacteria 
Yersinia Pestis.  There are three different types of Plague - bubonic, septicaemic and 
pneumonic.  In contrast Covid 19 is a viral infection. 
Having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the term plague used in the 
policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness. And whilst I appreciate its 
possible that plague could be interpreted on its widest dictionary definition as an infectious 
disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so would render the list Covea has set 
out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of the specified illnesses set out within it, 
so it would be pointless to list them as Covea has. 
 
The fact that plague is listed separately and that Covid 19 is different in its make up and 
nature to plague is, in my view, enough for me to determine that Covid 19 does not fall within 
the term plague in the policy and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
to treat the policy as if it did.
 
So, although Gs compulsory closure was due to a public body, and there may well have 
been a case of Covid-19 at the insured premises, I dont think this term covers its claim 
because Covid-19 does not fall within the definition of Notifiable Human Infectious or 
Contagious Disease.
When reaching my findings about this section of this policy I can assure Mrs V that Ive taken 
into account what shes said about the policy extending cover to diseases included in the 
Governments defined list, that this list is enshrined in law and that it should be read into the 
policy terms. But for the reasons Ive set out in detail above, I dont agree that is the correct 
way to interpret things. As Ive said above, there are policies that refer to the Governments 
defined list but this isnt one of them. 
Damage
The policy also covers loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the business 
carried on at the insured premises in consequence of any Damage occurring at it to any 
property used for the purposes of the business.
Damage is defined as loss, destruction or damage unless otherwise excluded.  Mrs G feels 
that Covid-19 could be construed as a physical entity and capable of causing physical 
damage. Even if I were to agree with that (and for clarity I dont think thats the correct 
interpretation) the policy here requires loss, destruction or damage to any property used for 
the purposes of the business. I dont think theres any ambiguity over the fact that no 
damage was caused to property used for the purposes of the business. So I dont agree that 
cover is available under this section of the policy. 
Prevention of Access or Loss of Attraction 
Ive thought about whether theres cover under this section of the policy. As the investigator 
said, theres a requirement for Damage to occur to property within 1 kilometre of the insured 
premises, as defined above. That Damage to property needs to prevent or hinder the use of 
the premises or result in a reduction of turnover. There is nothing to suggest that Covid 19 caused any Damage to property in this case so 
even if there were cases of the disease within 1 kilometre of the business premises that 
prevented access to it or resulted in a reduction in turnover, the requirements of this clause 
are not met. And nothing in that section extends to damage caused to the business by way 
of a disease listed on the Governments own list or as a result of a Government-imposed act. 
Rather the reference is to damage to property. 
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Covea acted unfairly by turning down 
Gs claim for cover. I know Mrs V feels strongly that the policy shouldve covered G because 
it purported to be an all risks comprehensive policy, but the title of the insurance doesnt 
inform the extent of cover- rather the terms do. I know this decision will be disappointing for 
Mrs V but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why Gs policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of its claim.
In closing, I can assure Mrs V that the outcome of the Supreme Courts judgement on appeal 
from the High Court in relation to business interruption insurance policies in January 2021 
has had no bearing on the outcome of this particular complaint. The policy that is the subject 
of this present complaint wasnt being considered by that appeal.
My final decision
I dont uphiold Gs complaint about Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman