DRN-2671237
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt treated her fairly when
she fell into arrears on her mortgage
What happened
Mrs B has a mortgage with Halifax that has fallen significantly into arrears. In 2018, Halifax 
told Mrs B it would be reviewing her account by May 2018 following guidance from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But review didnt happen until later than that  and then 
her monthly payments changed a number of times.
Mrs B complains that:
The review took too long.
Her monthly payments reduced in September 2018, but then increased in October 2018
and April 2019.
Halifaxs communication was unclear and confusing.
Halifax didnt place collections activity on hold while her complaint was investigated.
Halifax threatened repossession soon after it told her what she needed to pay.
She is paying the standard variable rate (SVR)  her situation could be improved if
Halifax would offer her a better interest rate.  
I issued a provisional decision. I said Id look at any more comments and evidence provided 
by Mrs B and Halifax. I made the following provisional finding, and which form part of this 
decision:
Mrs Bs account was affected by automatic capitalisation. That went against the rules 
introduced by the FCA in 2010. So Halifax was required to rework Mrs Bs mortgage to 
put it in the correct position.
Halifax delayed carrying out the remediation exercise, it gave Mrs B incorrect information 
about when it would take place and it got the calculations wrong. Since the investigator 
issued his view it had carried out another remediation calculation. And the interest rate 
changed during the period in question which added to the confusion.
Mrs B hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result of what happened.
There was some avoidable confusion caused by the way that Halifax communicated with 
Mrs B. That made it difficult for her to budget.
I was only looking at the possession action up until June 2019. In view of the level of 
arrears and what Halifax knew about Mrs Bs circumstances it was reasonable for it to 
say that repossession was a possibility.
Halifax had an obligation to treat Mrs B fairly when her account was in arrears. Usually 
that would usually mean assessing Mrs Bs income, expenditure and circumstances and 
exploring whether there was a tailored way it could help her. The FCAs rules say that 
capitalisation should usually only be considered when other options have been ruled out, 
including term extension and switching to interest only  so its not clear why Halifax is 
offering capitalisation apparently as a default option. But during the period in question 
Mrs B hadnt supplied details of her income and expenditure. So I couldnt say Halifax 
should have done any more.
Halifax has shown that at the time in question it only offered fixed rate interest rate
products  and that those products had early repayment charges (ERCs) if they were 
repaid during the tie-in period. In view of Mrs Cs circumstances there was a significant 
chance that Mrs C would have to repay the mortgage during the tie-in period and incur 
the ERC. So I consider it was reasonable not to offer a new interest rate product on that 
basis.
I dont consider that Halifax has treated Mrs B fairly in respect of the changes to her
mortgage payments. That hasnt caused her any financial loss. But Halifax has caused a
great deal of confusion to Mrs B in the way it handled the re-working of her account.
I can see that it has caused her worry that her mortgage is operating correctly. She has 
also been caused inconvenience in having to chase up when the reworking had been 
delayed and to seek a clearer explanation about what happened over a number of 
months at what was already a difficult time for her. In all the circumstances, I consider 
that Halifax should pay Mrs B £300 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused to 
her.
Both Halifax and Mrs Bs husband on her behalf accepted my provisional conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Halifax and Mrs B accepted what I said in my provisional decision. In view of that I see 
no reason to reach a different conclusion here.  I uphold this complaint in part for the 
reasons I have set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mrs B £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman