DRN-3748753
The complaint
Mr L complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a claim he made on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with his building society.
Mr L was on holiday with his partner, who Ill call Ms S. Unfortunately, Ms S became unwell 
and incurred medical costs of around EUR 120. So Mr L made a claim on his travel 
insurance policy.
UKI turned down the claim. The policy definition of a partner who was covered by the policy 
required a partner to live permanently with the policyholder. In this case, Mr L indicated that 
he and Ms S owned separate homes, although they stayed at both properties. And Mr L 
wasnt able to provide evidence that Ms S lived with him permanently. So UKI didnt think Mr 
L had shown the claim was covered by the policy terms.
Mr L was unhappy with UKIs decision, and he asked us to look into this complaint. He was 
also unhappy because hed been unaware that the policy included a trip length limit of 31 
days.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He felt that UKI had been 
entitled to ask Mr L for evidence to demonstrate that Ms S lived with him. And he also 
thought the policy terms clearly set out the applicable trip length limit.
Mr L disagreed. He felt it was irrelevant which address he and Ms S lived at. He was unable 
to provide the evidence UKI had asked for, as Ms S doesnt pay for utilities at his address. 
He didnt think thered been any attempt to think outside of the box and that the investigator 
had hidden behind the policy wording.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, I think UKI has treated him fairly and Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ls policy and the circumstances of this claim, to decide whether UKI 
handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between UKI and Mr L. The claim was made in relation to expenses incurred as a result of 
Ms S becoming unwell, rather than Mr L, who is the policyholder. So I think it was 
reasonable for UKI to establish whether or not Ms S was covered by the contract terms. 
Page 6 of the policy terms sets out who is covered. The policy says:
This policy provides cover for: 
 The account holder. 
 The account holders partner.
  Any dependent child of the account holder. 
You can extend the cover to include any guests travelling with you on a trip by buying a 
Guest Upgrade.
UKI has specifically defined what it means by a partner on page 13 of the policy. This 
definition says:
The person the account holder lives with at home in a relationship, whether married or 
cohabiting, as if husband and wife or civil partners regardless of gender.
Home is defined as: The address where you permanently live in the UK.
In my view, UKI has clearly set out what it considers to be a partner who is covered by the 
insurance policy  a partner who permanently lives at an address with the account holder. 
And so I think it was fair for UKI to ask for evidence to show that Ms S did permanently live 
at home with Mr L, such as a utility bill.
By Mr Ls own account, it doesnt appear that he and Ms S reside permanently together at 
his address. It appears they both own properties and pay bills separately. This means then 
that unfortunately, Ms S simply doesnt fall within UKIs definition of a partner. And therefore, 
I dont think it was unfair for UKI to conclude that Ms S isnt covered by the terms of the 
insurance contract.
Next, Ive considered whether UKI made it sufficiently clear that a trip length cover limit of 31 
days applies to the policy. And I think it does. I say that because page 7 of the policy 
includes the following:
Trip length 
This policy provides cover for trips of up to 31 days. If your return to your home area is 
delayed beyond the scheduled end date of your trip for reasons outside your control we will 
automatically extend cover until your new return date. If you are planning a longer trip you 
can extend your cover by buying a Trip Extension Upgrade (Winter sports trips cannot be 
extended beyond 31 days).
I think UKI has clearly explained the trip length cover limit in the policy terms. I also find its 
clearly set out how to extend the trip cover limit if a policyholder wishes to do so. Id add too 
that UKI didnt sell the policy to Mr L, so it wasnt responsible for highlighting the main terms 
and conditions of the policy to him at the point of sale. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr Ls position, as I appreciate hes been left out of pocket. But in 
the absence of evidence which indicates that Ms S lives permanently at Mr Ls address, I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for UKI to turn down his claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman