DRN-3550089
The complaint
Mr T complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr T with a loan as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable 
14 October 
2018£2,000 18 months £215.43 £3,877.74
The stated loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other words, Mr T indicated on his 
application that he would use the loan to repay other debt. 
Mr T said, through a representative, that 118 118 Money did not properly undertake 
affordability checks or assess signs of his over indebtedness and that the loan wasnt 
affordable for him.
When Mr T complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint. 
He thought that 118 118 Money shouldve undertaken more detailed income and 
expenditure checks. He also felt that 118 118 Money should have done more to ensure that 
Mr T understood the costs and risks of taking out a high cost loan for the purposes of debt 
consolidation. So he felt this was a complaint we should uphold.
In response to the investigators view, 118 118 Money said it wasnt licensed as a financial 
adviser and that the loan documentation it provided to Mr T, which it also discussed with him 
over the phone, set out full details of the loan costs.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to 
satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without 
needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it needed 
to before agreeing to lend to Mr T.
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr T about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It completed income verification with a third party and checked 
Mr Ts credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
118 118 Money concluded that its loan was affordable for Mr T  and I can see that the 
figures it relied on suggested he should have had ample surplus cash to pay this loan. 
But, like our investigator, I dont think 118 118 Money thought carefully enough about what 
the information it had gathered potentially showed about Mr Ts overall financial situation. 
I say this because Mr Ts credit history revealed some concerning information. It showed 
quite significant historic defaults  as well as a more recent defaulted balance of £125 dated 
just seven months before Mr T made this loan application. And the credit report showed 
what appeared to be five short-term unsecured loans all taken out within the previous three 
months  some within a few weeks of this application.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. But whilst the 
information 118 118 Money saw wasnt enough in my view to warrant refusing his loan 
application, I think 118 118 Money shouldve been alerted to the need for more in-depth 
checking to ensure it had a proper understanding of Mr Ts finances. 
.
To my mind, 118 118 Moneys checks should have included a full review of Mr Ts financial 
circumstances and, in particular, further verification of his expenditure so it could ensure that 
the loan repayments were likely to be affordable over the term of the loan.
But although I dont think the checks 118 118 Money did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, thats not enough for me to be able to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I also need to be 
able to say that if 118 118 Money had done what I consider to be proportionate checks, 
these would have shown 118 118 Money that Mr T couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments.
I havent however been provided with any further information to enable me to say what 118 
118 Money would have most likely seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
In coming to his view, our investigator took into account the income and expenditure 
information Mr T told us when he complained. This is significantly different to the information 
that Mr T provided to 118 118 Money during the loan application process and suggests he 
earned a lot less and his expenditure was significantly more than 118 118 Money allowed for 
in its affordability assessment. But what someone says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold a complaint and 
I must be impartial. I have to think about what information 118 118 Money was reasonably 
entitled to rely on when it made its lending decision. 
118 118 Money did background checks with a credit reference agency which verified the 
income figure (£1,900) Mr T had declared to 118 118 Money during the loan application 
process and it relied on this figure when assessing affordability. Mr T also completed a 
declaration when signing the loan agreement to say that all the information he provided was 
true. So, on balance, I cant fairly say that its more likely that his actual income was only 
£1,500 just based on contradictory information in Mr Ts complaint. And I dont think the 
expenditure information he provided wouldve seemed unreasonable given that Mr T told 
118 118 Money he was living with his parents at the time. So it was fair to think he probably 
wouldve had only limited responsibility for some of the usual household bills and costs as 
his declared outgoings suggested.    
It is possible that seeing Mr Ts bank statements from around the time wouldve given me 
more insight into his financial situation but, despite our investigator having twice asked for 
these, nothing further has been provided. The limited information Ive seen on the credit 
report shows that when he applied for this loan, Mr T was well within his £100 overdraft limit 
- just £49 overdrawn. So thats not enough to make me think he was in serious financial 
difficulty at the time.  
I've taken into account that Mr T said he would use the loan to repay other unspecified debt. 
Giving tailored financial advice would go beyond the lenders remit in this situation and 
I havent seen enough to make me think that the amount or type of debt Mr T had, or how he 
was managing it, should have led 118 118 Money to decline his loan application. 
This is because the loan Mr T had requested was sufficient to substantially cover his 
indebtedness as shown on the credit report 118 118 Money acquired. And although his 
recent loan track record was potentially concerning and it looked like those loans should be 
cleared within the next few months, using this loan to clear them wouldve immediately 
improved the amount of Mr Ts monthly disposable income and reduced the proportion of his 
take home pay committed to repaying his debt. This might have suited his purposes and 
reflected his priorities even if it did add to the overall cost of his debt. 118 118 Money could 
see that Mr T had been substantially reducing his old default balances and his total amount 
of credit outstanding at the time wasnt a lot relatively speaking for someone in his financial 
situation. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 118 118 Money to provide this loan for the 
purpose of debt consolidation. 
To sum up, I think the information 118 118 Money gathered should have prompted it to find 
out more about Mr Ts financial situation at that time. But thats not a reason for me to uphold 
the complaint if I cant also point to information that 118 118 Money shouldve found out 
showing that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr T. 
And bearing in mind that this loan was intended for debt consolidation, I think in these 
circumstances 118 118 Money was reasonably entitled to take a view that this suggested 
Mr T was borrowing specifically to help him manage his finances more responsibly, as it 
appeared he had been doing  and it looked like he ought to be able to afford to do that on 
the figures it worked out. 
All in all, as Ive not been able to see what better checks would have shown 118 118 Money, 
I am unable to say that Mr T was given a loan that was unaffordable for him or irresponsibly 
lent.I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr T but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
118 118 Money has confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and agrees with what I've 
said. 
I have heard nothing further from Mr T by the due date for responding so I think its 
reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman