DRN-4268627
The complaint
Miss K and Mr P complain that their adviser from Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited didnt 
contact their lender shortly before their mortgage product change came into effect to get 
them onto a five-year fixed rate mortgage product.
What happened
Miss K and Mr P have a mortgage with a lender I shall call Lender A and to get a new fixed 
rate mortgage product used Quilter as a broker. The previous mortgage deal was coming to 
an end on 31 October 2021. It was agreed because of the interest rates on five-year 
products at the time that they would take out a two-year deal and review the market in two 
years time. Miss K and Mr P agreed a deal for two years with an interest rate fixed at 1.76%. 
As the day of the switch approached, Miss K and Mr P became concerned that their 
payments would be much higher in two years time and that a five-year deal might be 
preferable and emailed the broker in the afternoon of Friday 29 October 2021 to see if they 
could switch to a five-year deal. The broker said he would try. At the time and later they 
understood that the time might be too tight to switch. But they later found out from Lender A 
that they could have changed their mind up to the switch date of Monday1 November 2021 
and Lender A confirmed that they had no contact from the broker to ask to switch at the last 
minute.
Quilter says that the email request was received at 14.33 on that Friday and not picked up 
by the adviser who had returned from holidays until 17.46 but at that stage the phone lines to 
Lender A were closed to the broker over the weekend. It also says that it as the mortgage 
had been agreed at the beginning of September it was unreasonable to expect the adviser to 
change the deal at such short notice.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt think 
that there was enough time to change the product at the last minute. Miss K and Mr P 
disagreed and asked for a review.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background to this is that the broker and Miss K and Mr P went through a process in 
early September of identifying what was the best mortgage product that suited their needs. 
For various reasons a two-year deal with their existing lender was selected and the 
application proceeded on that basis. But at the last minute, on the Friday evening before the 
new mortgage product came into effect on the following Monday, Miss K emailed the broker 
to ask if they could change to the 5-year product. The broker replied that he didnt think so 
but would try. The broker says that the adviser couldnt get through to the lender before 
Monday.
My role is to decide whether Quilter did anything wrong.  I noted that in its response that 
Quilter say it was unreasonable to expect the adviser to make changes to the offer at such 
short notice. I understand Quilters position on that. Brokers are regulated in the sale of 
mortgages to protect consumers. This mortgage was an advised sale meaning that the 
Quilter adviser had to go through a process of understanding Miss K and Mr Ps needs and 
advising on the most suitable product for them given that. It normally involves an 
appointment, consideration and a suitability letter. 
Certainly, it required more time than the adviser had in the afternoon of 29 October. One of 
the matters I have to consider is good industry practice and I recognise that industry practice 
and good regulation require time to provide good advice to consumers and that the adviser 
didnt have that time. So, I consider it would be unfair to be critical of the adviser if he failed 
to take actions that he might have taken without that time pressure being on him. 
But in any case, Quilter has provided evidence that it couldnt get through to Lender A after 
5.00 pm on the Friday and before Monday as the intermediaries line to Lender A was closed 
at that time. That would explain why when Miss K contacted Lender A, it said it had received 
no contact over that weekend from the broker. It wouldnt have had that contact if the broker 
couldnt get through. So, for the above reasons, I dont consider that Quilter did anything 
wrong and I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman