DRN-3077933
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the handling of her claim for damage from a fire at her home, by her 
home insurer, UK Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Privilege. 
 
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs H suffered a fire at her home which left it uninhabitable. Mrs H claimed to 
UKI and it appointed loss adjusters and arranged alternative accommodation for her.
UKIs loss adjusters prepared lists of Mrs Hs possessions and a schedule of repairs. Mrs H 
said she felt rushed into decisions and finalising the claim quite early in the process and 
before she was ready. She found the lists of her possessions confusing. She said the items 
listed didnt match the quality or value of some of her possessions and some were missing 
from the list including carpets and light fittings. 
Mrs H said she was told she didnt need to evidence her possessions, but was later told she 
had to send photos of some items. She said she was also misinformed about whether she 
could retain items and thinks some were destroyed or removed when they were salvageable. 
Mrs H said the loss adjuster was rude to her when she questioned this. She said she wasnt 
taken seriously and felt unsupported throughout the claims process. She said her health 
declined and she was hospitalised on three occasions and prescribed medication for stress.
Mrs H complained to UKI about its poor handling of her claim. UKI acknowledged the 
incompleteness of the list of possessions, particularly concerning light fittings and carpets. It 
said there was no evidence of rudeness, but explanations of the process could have been 
clearer. UKI sent Mrs H £150 compensation for the upset it had caused.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She said Mrs H had very 
serious non-claim related stress at the time and its understandable she found things difficult. 
She said UKI didnt rush her and its requests for information were reasonable. She thought 
UKIs compensation of £150 for its confusing list which left off carpets and light fittings, was 
reasonable and it should pay her £100 for the breakdown in communication and the 
unfinished work on her home. The investigator said UKI should compensate Mrs H for any 
items that she would have salvaged but didnt because she was told this wasnt allowed.
 
Mrs H disagreed with the investigator, saying that repairs were still required to complete her 
claim. She said lots of the issues were only resolved because she was there to notice them. 
She also said she's going to the police about her stolen items. Mrs H said UKI could resolve 
her complaint if it paid her £5,000 compensation. The investigator maintained her view of the 
complaint and so Mrs H requested it be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs Hs claim is almost complete. I sympathise with her for the time this 
has taken and her involvement with the claim issues. 
Where a large amount of damage has been sustained to a property and possessions as at 
Mrs Hs home, the claim is likely to be fairly complex and involve multiple parties. It follows 
from this that it will take several months to resolve, and communications can become 
confused. Our role is to determine whether there has been avoidable delays and poor 
service and if so whether compensation should be paid for this. Having said this, we dont 
generally compensate policyholders for the time and personal effort they invest in their claim 
as we expect this as a requirement of pursuing a claim to a conclusion.
Mrs H was frustrated at the service she received from UKI and its agents during her claim 
and thinks she should be compensated for the strain this put her health under. I was sorry to 
learn about the health difficulties and hospitalisation that Mrs H has suffered. Ive looked 
closely at the record of available communications between Mrs H and UKI and its agents, 
including emails. I am mindful of Mrs Hs view about the way she was spoken to and the 
haste with which UKIs agents dealt with her claim, but I havent seen evidence of UKI being 
pushy or being rude to Mrs H. 
Our service has been very critical of insurers that cause delays on long-running repair 
claims. In this case I can see that UKI tried to move the claim along swiftly and I wouldnt 
criticise it for that as this was the best way to get Mrs H back into her home as soon as 
possible. That doesnt mean to say there havent been delays, but I have seen that UKIs 
loss adjuster kept in touch with Mrs H throughout the claim. I havent seen evidence that Mrs 
H was rushed into decisions or progress was forced. Clearly Mrs H has suffered anxiety and 
stress throughout the claim but in general terms I havent found that UKI was responsible for 
most of this.
The record of Mrs Hs claim shows that UKI rectified the oversight regarding the carpets and 
light fittings quite quickly. UKI invited Mrs H to make a list of missing items from the 
spreadsheet and said that it would be happy to review the list. UKI said to Mrs H that there 
was no pressure to have this completed within a specific timescale. It wasnt ideal that items 
were missed from the spreadsheet and I think the way the spreadsheet was set out couldve 
been better.
From what Ive seen all payments for alternative accommodation have been made to Mrs H 
as well as some payments for parts of the claim. Mrs H has said she would contact the 
police about her missing items, and I think that is the best option to deal with this issue.
From my review Ive identified the things that UKI and its agents could have handled better. 
These include the listing of Mrs Hs possessions, and communications with her about her 
possessions. I agree with the investigator that UKI ought to have made a broader and more 
coherent explanation of the claims process to Mrs H. I think its compensation of £150 is fair 
and reasonable for the impact this had upon Mrs H. I also think the further compensation of 
£100 recommended by the investigator is fair for the breakdown in communication and the 
unfinished work on her home. This means, if it hasnt already done so, UKI should pay Mrs H 
a total of £250 compensation for its poor handling of her claim.  
I understand that Mrs H will be disappointed with the compensation set out here, but this 
award is consistent with awards in other cases with circumstances similar to this complaint 
and we need to be consistent in the awards that we make. 
  
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require UK 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs H £100 further compensation in total in respect of the stress 
she was caused by the breakdown in communication and the unfinished work on her home. 
This means UK Insurance Limited should pay (if it hasnt already) a total of £250 
compensation to Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before xx January 2022.
 
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman