DRN-4278550
The complaint
Mr V says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a First Additions packaged bank 
account and two Tech packs. Amongst other things Mr V says that he did not agree to the 
account or the packs.
What happened
In 2008, Mr V took out a First Additions packaged bank account with Barclays. This was 
downgraded to a fee free account in 2010. In October 2013 a Tech pack was added to the 
account. 
On 4 April 2019, the Tech pack was removed from Mr Vs account but was re-added on the 
same day.
Mr V says that he did not agree to the First Additions account or the Tech pack in either 
2013 or 2019.
Barclays raised an objection to us looking at the sale of the First Addition account and the 
sale of the original Tech pack in 2013 because it believed that Mr V complained too late. An 
ombudsman issued a decision regarding this, and he concluded that Mr Vs complaint about 
those issues was raised too late. 
In relation to the Tech pack that was added to Mr Vs account in 2019 one of our 
adjudicators looked into this matter and she did not think that Barclays did anything wrong in 
relation to this matter. Mr V did not agree and therefore this complaint has been passed to 
me to issue a final decision.
I should highlight that this decision only relates to the addition of the Tech pack in 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts and similar 
products on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
In this instance it seems as if the Tech pack was removed and re-added to Mr Vs account 
on the same day that Mr V attended a branch of Barclays to take out a loan. 
Barclays internal notes from the time say that Mr V attended the branch to get a loan for a 
laptop and other items. It went on to say that initially Mr V wanted to remove the Tech pack 
but it was re-added later in the discussion as it would cover the laptop that Mr V was 
purchasing. 
Mr V says that he does not recall this conversation, but I have to be mindful that this 
conversation was around 5 years ago. Whereas the notes from Barclays about the 
conversation were made at the time. So I think it likely that the notes provide a reasonably 
accurate reflection of what mayve been discussed at the time.
Additionally, my understanding is that two letters were issued to the address on Mr Vs 
statements, one saying his Tech pack had been cancelled the other saying it had been 
added to his account. 
Mr V says, he never agreed to the Tech pack in the first place and there had not been a 
discussion about the Tech pack during the 2019 meeting. So receiving these letters saying a 
Tech pack had been removed then added to his account and that he would continue to be 
paying a monthly fee for the Tech pack should really have made him question what had 
happened and I would have expected him to query this with Barclays earlier than he did.
I think it more likely that he agreed to keep the Tech pack during the meeting in 2019, 
though I accept that he might not recall this now. Given this I do not think that Barclays has 
done anything wrong in relation to this and therefore I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman