DRN-2776966
The complaint
 Mrs B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) didnt apply a five-
year service plan and tyre insurance to her vehicle when she took out a Hire Purchase 
Agreement.. Mrs B would like the service plan to be applied to the vehicle. And more 
compensation than BMWFS has offered.
.What happened
  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
From the vehicle order form its clear Mrs B paid for a service plan but its not clear if 
this was a three- or five-year plan. She has told us she paid £575 for the plan - the 
leaflet on the five-year plan states for Mrs Bs model of car the cost is between  £750-
£1,000. So, it seems more likely it was for a three-year plan.
Its clear Mrs B has had problems getting her car serviced as a service plan wasnt 
linked to the car which it should have been. I understand all the service costs have 
been refunded so Mrs B hasnt lost out financially  though I dont doubt the 
inconvenience his has caused her.
I think BMWFS has made a very fair offer. This includes covering the cost of services 
until the end of the current agreement. It hasnt agreed to set up a service plan with 
the agreement which Mrs B would like as she thinks it will be easier to sell the car 
with the service plan in place. Given the confusion over what Mrs B purchased I think 
BMWFSs offer is fair. Particularly as it has also offered to refund the £575 cost of the 
plan Mrs B paid for a gesture of goodwill for her poor experience.
BMWFS has also offered to refund the £300 tyre insurance policy  as Mrs B also had 
problems with that policy. Mrs B has told us she had to pay to replace two tyres 
which should have been covered by that policy. I cant be sure that policy would have 
covered this, so I think BMWFS offer is fair in the circumstances.
I understand Mrs B wanted BMWFS to refinance her vehicle on the same terms as 
her current agreement. Its a commercial decision for a business to take as to who it 
offers finance to so its not something, I could reasonably have asked BMWFS to do.
I appreciate Mrs B has asked for more compensation. But I feel in the circumstances 
BMWFS total redress offer is both comprehensive and fair. Mrs B hasnt given me 
any reasons to feel I should increase its offer
My final decision
 My final decision is that I up; hold this complaint. In full and final settlement BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited should, if it has not done so already, :-
Cover the costs of services until the end of the current agreement
Pay Mrs B £575 compensation for the inconvenience
Refund to Mrs B £300 to cover the cost of the tyre insurance policy
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman