DRN-2087379
The complaint
Miss W complains about credit card purchase interest charged by Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) after she took out a cash transfer with a 0% interest rate.
What happened
Miss W took out a cash transfer on her Tesco credit card, which had a 0% interest rate for a 
set period. 
Miss W always cleared the balance for purchases on her card to avoid paying interest. She 
continued to do this after shed taken the cash transfer, and she understood this would mean 
she wouldnt pay any interest on the card.
But Miss W discovered this wasnt the case. While the cash transfer balance remained 
outstanding, Tesco charged interest on card purchases even if the balance of those 
purchases was cleared in full. 
Miss W considered this was misleading and said she wouldnt have taken the cash transfer if 
shed known purchase interest would be charged while the cash balance remained 
outstanding.
Tesco accepted it missed opportunities to explain to Miss W how interest was charged when 
shed called to check what she needed to pay to avoid interest. It paid £50 by way of an 
apology, and waived interest on the account for three months. Miss W remained unhappy 
and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that the terms 
of the money transfer contradicted the terms of the credit card account. As such, he 
considered the allocation of payments where there is a 0% cash transfer balance is 
ambiguous.
The investigator said that if Miss W cleared her purchase balance in full each month, she 
should not have to pay any interest on those purchases during the 0% interest period for the 
cash transfer. 
Tesco disagreed with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 6 July 2020. Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below:
Tesco told Miss W by letter about the cash transfer offer. Tescos letter included the 
following information:
You will be charged interest on any purchases made, even if you pay off the full 
purchase balance each month, until you repay your balance or money transfer(s) in 
full. This does not apply if you have a 0% interest rate on purchases.
I considered this was clear enough to make customers aware that even if they pay off 
their purchase balance in full each month, interest will be charged on purchases 
while the cash transfer balance remains outstanding.
Unlike the investigator, I wasnt persuaded that the cash transfer terms contradicted 
the general credit card terms. 
The cash transfer terms explain how interest is calculated on purchases while the 
cash transfer balance remains outstanding. Any payments made will be allocated to 
those purchases as they will attract the highest rate of interest while the cash transfer 
rate is 0%.
I wasnt persuaded that the general terms meant interest cannot be charged on 
purchases while there is an outstanding cash transfer balance with a 0% interest 
rate. 
Miss W arranged the transfer through the Tesco Bank app and I hadnt seen any 
evidence of a discussion with Tesco Bank before the transfer was made. I 
appreciated that Miss W may have misunderstood how purchase interest would be 
calculated during the 0% rate period for her cash transfer. But from what Id seen, I 
didnt think I could fairly or reasonably say that Tesco misled her about this.
So I was satisfied that Tesco Bank was able to charge purchase interest in line with 
the terms of the cash transfer and the credit card account.
After Miss W had arranged the transfer she contacted Tesco Bank to ask what she 
needed to do to avoid paying interest. Tesco Bank accepted that it failed to tell her 
that interest would be charged on her purchases while the cash transfer balance 
remained outstanding. 
Tesco paid £50 in recognition of this, and it also waived purchase interest for three 
months. I understood that Tesco also waived interest for an additional two months, in 
addition to the three it mentioned in its final response letter.
I considered that was a fair resolution to the complaint. 
Miss W didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
Tesco responded to say that it agreed with my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman