DRN-3110487
The complaint
Mr J complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) is holding him liable for a loan he approved 
when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive only provided a 
summary. 
In November 2019, Mr J approved a loan for £15,000 which he says he didnt apply for. He 
states that he was contacted by someone claiming to be from the fraud department of 
another bank who he also has an account with. Mr J says the caller told him fraudsters were 
also trying to gain access to his Monzo account. 
Mr Js told us that as he logged on to his Monzo app, terms and conditions appeared on the 
screen. He says he accepted these to move past the screen and check his account activity. 
It was then that the loan funds appeared in his account and the caller convinced him to move 
them to a safe account at the other bank. Mr J says that he gave his PIN to the caller who 
helped him transfer the funds out of his Monzo account. This was completed over several 
payments and Mr Js told us that he made some of these transactions. He says that he 
realised hed been scammed when he was genuinely contacted by his other bank the 
following day.
Monzo managed to recover a fraction of the funds Mr J had sent once it became aware of 
the situation. It concluded that while Mr J had been a victim of an authorised push payment 
scam, it had reason to believe the transactions werent fraudulent. Monzo also said that Mr J 
was eligible for the loan and that he had approved it. So, it wasnt obliged to refund the funds 
that couldnt be recovered. Following its investigation, Monzo closed Mr Js account and told 
him this decision was in line with its terms and conditions.
Our investigator considered Mr Js complaint and concluded there wasnt enough to suggest 
that a scam had occurred. He questioned Mr Js explanation for what happened at the time, 
and highlighted inconsistencies between what Mr J said to Monzo and what he told our 
service about the loan. The investigator invited Mr J to respond to these points. He also 
asked Mr J to provide information showing contact from his other bank which led him to 
realise hed been scammed, as well as a statement of his account with that bank for that 
period.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr J feels very strongly about this complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to him, but I dont believe this complaint should be upheld. The overarching 
reason for my decision is that there are inconsistencies between what Mr J told Monzo and 
what hes told us about what happened when he says he was scammed. This means I 
havent been able to place much weight, if any, on what Mr J has told us such that Im not 
persuaded I could fairly find Monzo needs to take any action.  
Ive listened to the call that Mr J made to Monzo when he reported hed been scammed. He 
can be heard telling Monzo that the scammer told him a loan had already been applied for 
and that he (Mr J) needed to approve it to access the money and safely move it out. 
But Mr J told us that he didnt know anything about the loan until he noticed the funds appear 
in his account. He also told us that the conversation with the scammer about transferring of 
funds only happened after hed noticed the loan proceeds in his account. 
The discrepancy in Mr Js testimony also calls into question the reason hes given for why he 
accepted the loan terms and conditions. On the one hand he says that the scammer told him 
to do so. On the other, he says that he accepted the terms without properly reading them.
These inconsistencies aside, several questions remain unanswered 
why did Mr J transfer money from his other bank to Monzo if the scammer had 
already told him his other bank account was safe but his Monzo account had been 
compromised?
why did Mr J move the loan proceeds, or allow them to be moved, to several 
accounts with different banks if he was told to protect the funds by transferring them 
to a safe account with the bank the scammer was purporting to call from?
how did the scammer gain access to Mr Js Monzo account to apply for credit and 
then transfer the funds if Mr J says he didnt forward the magic link (which allows the 
app to be used on another device) or give access to his own device or emails?
why were items deleted from the account feed using Mr Js device the day after he 
says he was scammed?
why did Mr J promptly transfer out the loan funds that Monzo managed to recover if 
he didnt take out the loan in the first instance?
Mr J was given an opportunity to address the inconsistencies and to fill in the gaps, first in 
response to the investigators view and later just before the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. But this information hasnt been forthcoming. 
Given that Mr J hasnt been consistent in his account of what happened without explanation, 
and several questions pertinent to the scam remain unanswered, it is my judgement that I 
cant fairly rely on his testimony when deciding this complaint. I dont know which of his 
versions of events, if any, are representative of what actually happened. And without 
answers to the questions asked, I dont know to what extent Mr J was scammed, how events 
unfolded or why he took the actions he did, such that I could fairly find Monzo ought to have 
intervened or that it ought to reimburse him now. 
I acknowledge that Mr J will be disappointed with this outcome. Hes under no obligation to 
accept it, and if he doesnt it wont be legally binding. This means hell be free to pursue his 
complaint elsewhere, such as a court of law, if he wishes to do so.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman