DRN-2422530
The complaint
  Mr N has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited ("Advantage") has 
undervalued his motorbike after it was written off following an attempted theft.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my provisional thoughts, were set out in my 
provisional decision dated November 2020. An extract from this is below:
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all of 
them again here. Instead Ill give a summary of whats happened and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr Ns motorbike was parked outside his work when an attempted theft of it took 
place. Mr N contacted the police about the attempted theft, and Advantage about the 
damage caused to the bike in the process. 
After considering the damage to the bike, and the cost to repair it, Advantage 
decided the bike was a total loss. Thats to say, it uneconomical to repair the bike 
based on the cost of the repairs and the value of the bike itself. So, it offered Mr N 
£2,575, which it says is the pre-accident market value of the bike. It used figures 
provided by two of the national motor trade guides (Glasss and CAP) to decide what 
the pre-accident market value of Mr Ns bike was.
Mr N wasnt happy with the valuation of his motorbike. He says that he wouldnt even 
be able to replace his bike with an older model with the figure Advantage offered. Mr 
N also says that his bike had some modifications, which he informed Advantage of, 
but it failed to record. He believes this is affecting the value of the bike.
Mr N enquired about buying back the salvage of his bike from Advantage. 
Advantage quoted Mr N a price of 40% of the pre-accident market value of the bike, 
which he feels is too high. He also says that Advantages salvage partner has 
repeatedly contacted him about collecting the bike, but he hasnt agreed to have it 
collected as he wants to agree to the valuation and receive payment for it first. He 
also says that he wants to replace the modifications  hydro dipped panels  with 
panels of a standard specification before the bike is collected. 
Mr N also says that Advantage wasnt able to give him the correct information about 
the retention figure when he asked it. He says it wasnt clear whether the 40% 
quoted was the price hed have to pay to retain the bike, or the reduction of the 
market value that hed have to pay (meaning hed have to pay 60%).
Our investigator thought that Advantage had valued Mr Ns bike fairly. But he didnt 
think it had quoted a fair retention price to Mr N in the case that he wanted to retain 
the bike. He recommended that Advantage change its retention fee to 25% of the 
pre-accident market value, or allow Mr N 30 days to change the bike back to 
standard specification before settling the claim in full. 
The investigator also recommended that Advantage should pay Mr N £100 
compensation for the service issues in relation to being contacted by the salvage 
company, and because it wasnt able to tell Mr N exactly what the salvage figure 
was. 
Neither party fully agreed with the investigators recommendations, so the case has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
 My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Whilst there have been several points raised throughout this claim, there are two key 
points for me to consider here. The first is whether Advantage has used a fair 
process to reach a valuation for Mr Ns bike  considering the modifications. The 
second is whether Advantage offered Mr N a fair price for him to retain the salvage 
of the bike.
Having thought carefully about everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by 
the investigator in relation to the valuation of Mr Ns bike. But Ive reached a different 
conclusion in relation to the price Mr N was quoted to retain the salvage. Ill explain 
why.
The investigator has explained our approach to dealing with complaints about 
valuations. We generally think its fair for insurers to rely on motor trade guide prices, 
as theyre based on extensive national research of likely selling prices. We think 
adverts can be unreliable. Thats partly because they usually show prices that are 
open to negotiation. Theres often also great variation between advertised prices for 
what seem to be similar vehicles.
The motor guide valuations also assume the vehicle is roadworthy and has been 
maintained, with an up-to-date service history. So, Ive assumed the price theyve 
shown is a fair reflection of Mr Ns bike. 
Advantage has provided screen shots of the industry standard guides it used to 
value Mr Ns bike  Glasss and CAP. I note the most consistent valuations, taking 
into account the bike age, condition, and mileage, were £2757 and £2686. Our 
investigator also ran these checks, as well as an additional one, and found that the 
way Advantage valued the bike is in line with what wed expect a business to do. 
Having considered everything, I think Ageas acted reasonably when it provided the 
valuation for Mr Ns bike. It offered Mr N the average valuation of those set out in the 
two main trade guides, and a valuation within an acceptable range of the values the 
investigator found.
Whilst I understand there is a dispute as to whether Mr N declared the modifications 
to the panels on his bike, I m not going to dispute what hes said. I accept that he 
did call Advantage, and he was told the panels didnt need to be declared. But I also 
note that the renewal documents sent to him in June 2019  after Mr N says he 
called Advantage but before the claim  make no mention of any modifications to the 
bike. 
I firstly note that although there were modifications to Mr Ns bike that Advantage 
says it didnt know about, it has continued with Mr Ns claim. Its claim notes 
suggested that as a fairly small portion of the bike was modified, the modifications are acceptable (even if not declared) on the basis that the standard valuation is 
used. I think this is a reasonable way for Advantage to have dealt with the situation 
in which there was a potential issue of non-disclosure. 
Whilst this point is still in dispute, Ive gone on to consider whether, and how, this 
would affect the valuation of the bike. Mr Ns insurance policy states: 
This policy does not cover any non-standard parts (modifications). Manufacturers 
optional extras are only covered if they have been declared and your insurer has 
agreed to arrange cover for them. If you make a claim for loss or damage to your 
motorcycle, your insurer will only pay the cost of replacing parts needed for your 
motorcycle to meet the manufacturers standard specification. Failure to notify us of 
a modification may result in your policy being cancelled or treated as if it never 
existed, or in your claim being rejected or not fully paid.
Having considered the above, I dont think Advantage is wrong not to consider the 
modifications to Mr Ns bike when reaching its valuation. Whilst I understand that 
modifications often make a vehicle more valuable to the owner, that doesnt 
automatically mean that the market value increases. And modifications to vehicles 
often dont increase the value of a vehicle by as much as the cost of the modification 
itself. In fact, it could be argued that modified vehicles could be less attractive to 
some potential buyers, and therefore decrease the value. So, taking all of this into 
account, as well as the policy wording, I dont think Advantage is wrong to value Mr 
Ns bike based on the pre-accident value of the standard specification. 
Despite the point above, I wouldnt expectant Advantage to gain the modified panels 
as a result of this claim. So, I dont think its fair for Advantage to be able to keep the 
panels that Mr N fitted. Its fair for Mr N to provide the bike, if he chooses to, with 
standard panels, which hed need to replace at his own expense before collection.
I note that Mr N has raised a point about the wiring loom of his bike also being 
damaged. He says this wasnt previously considered as it has only come to light 
more recently. 
Whilst I understand that this could cause more work, and mean Mr N has to spend 
more to fix his bike if he retains the salvage, this doesnt change my thoughts on 
whats happened. Advantages valuation of the bike is based on the pre-accident 
market value, which means the value of the bike before considering any of the 
damage to it. So, as Im satisfied with the way Advantage has reached that value, 
the extent of the damage caused by the attempted theft doesnt change my thinking. 
Turning to the cost that Advantage quoted Mr N to retain the salvage of the bike, 
Advantage has provided several examples of sale prices of similar motorcycles to its 
salvage partner. These suggest that Advantage received an average of around 40% 
of the market value of the bikes when they were sold as salvage. 
Our investigator said that this value seems particularly high. And I do agree, the 
values are higher than salvage retention figures wed usually see. But thats not to 
say that theyre unachievable, or incorrect. 
Ive firstly noted that the salvage cost of 40% that Advantage has quoted is based on 
three previous sales. The three examples it has provided didnt each produce the 
same return, so Im satisfied that theres not a simple calculation that Advantage 
uses to reach the salvage price. Theres very little further information about these 
sales, although I accept they were for the same model of bike as Mr Ns. Ive considered the fact that relationship between Advantage and the salvage 
company mayve increased the prices it was able to obtain as salvage. But based on 
the information Advantage has provided, Im satisfied that its likely it wouldve been 
able to achieve a figure around 40% of the market value of Mr Ns bike, if it were to 
sell it as salvage. The motorcycle salvage market can typically produce slightly 
higher salvage prices than cars, given that salvaged motorcycles tend to be more 
desirable to repair, leading to an increased demand for them. And so I dont think 
Advantage has reached an unrealistic salvage retention fee.
Whilst I understand that our investigator thought the salvage figure quoted was too 
high, Im afraid I dont agree. I understand the thinking behind the investigators 
findings, but from what Ive seen itd be unfair for me to ask Advantage to lose out by 
selling the salvage to Mr N for less than it could get elsewhere. And, as Im satisfied 
that the salvage retention fee of 40% of market value is a considered number based 
on the salvage market for motorcycles, I think its fair.
Having considered everything, I think Advantage has acted fairly by quoting Mr N 
40% of the market value of his motorcycle to retain the salvage. 
Finally, Ive considered the servicing issues that Mr N faced during the claim.
Its evident from Advantages contact notes that the salvage company did in fact try 
to contact Mr N to collect his bike on several occasions, although a settlement hadnt 
been reached. And the notes suggest that Mr N raised this with Advantage, but it 
continued to happen. 
The investigator also listened to the call between Mr N and Advantage, where Mr N 
says he wasnt given clear information about the salvage price. The investigator 
noted that Advantage wasnt able to answer Mr Ns questions, so the representative 
said hed need to double check. But theres nothing to suggest that this was done, 
nor that Advantage contacted Mr N to explain the correct figure. 
I think that the £100 compensation the investigator recommended is a fair way to 
compensate Mr N for these failings. Whilst I can understand they caused additional 
inconvenience to Mr N, making an insurance claim is inconvenient in itself. And I 
think £100 adequately reflects the impact that these additional issues had on Mr Ns 
overall claim.  
It follows that I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint in relation to the way 
that Advantage valued Mr Ns written off motorcycle, or the figure of 40% of market 
value that it has quoted for Mr N to retain the salvage of his bike. But I uphold the 
part in relation to the service he experienced throughout the claim.
In my provisional decision I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint about 
the valuation, but I explained that I thought Advantage should compensate Mr N with 
£100 for the poor service it had offered. I also explained how I proposed things should 
be put right in relation to the claim itself. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further comments and evidence. Advantage responded agreeing with my provisional 
findings. Mr N replied explaining why he didnt agree. 
In his response Mr N explained that he didnt agree with the 40% retention fee, as hed 
previously been paid £160 for a scrap van, which consisted of a lot more scrap metal. He 
also explained that he intends to start legal proceedings against Advantage to court if hes 
not awarded at least £3,200 for his bike. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by apologising for the distress and upset that Mr N clearly felt as a result of 
my provisional decision. It certainly wasnt my intention to make him feel that way, but I do 
understand why he does. However having reviewed his comments, in conjunction with my 
provisional findings, I havent changed my decision. 
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Ns comparison to the scrap metal that he was paid for a 
van, against what hes being asked to pay for his bike. And I understand the point Mr N is 
trying to make. But its important to note that when vehicles are sold to salvage companies to 
offset insurance companies losses from a claim, the vehicles arent always sold purely for 
their scrap value. The salvaged vehicle may be sold on to be repaired, or to be broken down 
and their parts to then be re-sold. Some vehicles are more desirable for these purposes, and 
this can affect the amount the insurance company is able to recover when selling the 
vehicle. So whilst I understand Mr Ns point in relation to the value of the van he scrapped, 
the salvage value isnt based on the weight of the scrap metal alone, so this doesnt change 
my decision here. 
I also understand that Mr N intends to start legal proceedings against Advantage. I cannot 
comment on, or influence Mr Ns decision on whether to do that. But I previously explained 
that I felt the way Advantage had valued his motorcycle was fair, and this hasnt changed as 
a result of Mr Ns further comments. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but for the reasons Ive explained here, although Im upholding 
part of this complaint, I havent changed the way things need to be settled.
Putting things right
If Mr N accepts my decision, I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to: 
Either
Pay the market value for the bike, minus a salvage retention fee of 40% of the market 
value and the policy excess, if Mr N chooses to retain the salvage.
Or
Settle the claim based on the market value of the bike, minus the policy excess, if Mr N 
chooses not to retain the salvage. Advantage should then allow Mr N 30 days from the 
date of settlement to change the hydro dipped panels to standard panels. Advantage can 
arrange for collection of the bike after 30 days, or before that if Mr N lets Advantage 
know he is ready for the bike to be collected sooner.
And
Pay the £100 compensation that the investigator recommended for the poor service. My final decision
For the reasons Ive above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint in 
relation to the bike valuation or salvage price of Mr Ns motorcycle. But I do uphold it in part, 
in relation to the service Mr N received. So I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
to do what Ive said above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman