DRN-2630532
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy Santander UK Plc allowed a transaction to debit his account which he says 
he didnt authorise.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr B attempted to book a holiday using his Santander debit card for
£10,236.88 through a merchant Ill refer to as merchant X.
Santander placed a hold on the transaction as a security measure whilst it sent a text
message to Mr B to enquire if it was genuine. Mr B responded to confirm it was, but
Santander let him know itd declined the transaction and if he wanted to proceed, hed need
to make it again.
Mr B decided not to continue the booking with merchant X so didnt make the transaction
again. Instead, he checked his account the following day to ensure the transaction had not
been debited. And satisfied it hadnt, Mr B decided to book through a different merchant.
This transaction was successful, and his account was debited for an amount in excess of
£10,000. However, after checking his account again several days later, Mr B noticed the
transaction to merchant X for £10,236.88 had also debited his account.
Mr B contacted Santander to raise a dispute. He questioned why after declining the
transaction Santander had allowed it to debit his account. Santander set up a chargeback
dispute and sent Mr B a dispute form to complete. Mr B says he received two copies of the
dispute form, both of which he completed and returned to Santander as well as providing
further information to it when asked.
Mr B contacted Santander several times over the two months that followed in an attempt to
get his money back. Santander advised Mr B it was still waiting for a response from
merchant X. As Mr B was unhappy how long the dispute was taking to resolve, a complaint
was raised.
Santander investigated Mr Bs concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. It said itd only
declined the original transaction to merchant X and not the booking Mr B had made with
them. And this is how merchant X had been able to process the transaction again a few days
later. Santander confirmed itd raised a chargeback dispute for Mr B in an attempt to get
back his money. It said the dispute was still being investigated and that hed be advised of
the outcome in due course. Mr B remained unhappy so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Santander had acted unfairly or
that Mr B had taken enough action to mitigate his loss. Our investigator felt Mr B couldve
contacted merchant X to ensure his booking was cancelled and that payment wasnt due
before booking his holiday with a different merchant. He also felt Mr B could have contacted
Santander after deciding not to proceed with merchant X to inform then he no longer wanted
to authorise the payment.
Our investigator, whilst acknowledging Mr B had not physically made the payment again,
said merchant X had re-presented the same payment hed originally confirmed was genuine.
And whilst he didnt think merchant X shouldve done this, without Mr B confirming with them
the booking was no longer required and as it was merchant X requesting the payment again
rather than Santander sending it, he didnt think itd done anything wrong.
Our investigator then looked at the action taken by Santander to assist Mr B in obtaining a
refund. After reviewing the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account, he didnt think Santander
needed to refund the payment directly. He was satisfied that by raising a chargeback dispute
Santander had taken the correct action and that itd said this dispute was ongoing.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. He said the text message he received from Santander
made it clear his transaction had been declined and that if he wanted to proceed, hed need
to make the payment again.
Mr B said if hed been advised there was a possibility of merchant X being able to represent
the payment, he would have been aware of a need to contact them to establish if that would
be the case before booking with an alternative merchant. As Mr B didnt agree with our
investigators view, his complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt agree with our investigator. So I issued a provisional
decision on 25 January 2021. In this I said:
After Mr B confirmed the original transaction to merchant X was genuine Santander
responded to advise him itd declined it. The text message sent to Mr B said 
This transaction was declined and hasnt been processed. If you would like to continue with
this transaction, please make it again.
I am satisfied the instructions were clear and left for no ambiguity. Mr B didnt want to
continue with the transaction, and he didnt make the transaction again. And yet Santander
allowed his account to be debited with a second transaction that Mr B didnt authorise.
Our investigator said Santander would have no control over merchant X processing the
transaction again. I agree. And Im satisfied Santander acted correctly by initially raising a
chargeback dispute with merchant X. However, the chargeback dispute was closed by
Santander prior to an outcome being reached. Santander said this was due to Mr B advising
it the transaction debited his account without his permission. In its place a fraud claim was
raised against merchant X.
Its important for me to say Santander is the expert here. And I would expect it to listen to
Mr Bs concerns and take the right course of action to best assist him. Having listened to
several calls made by Mr B Im not satisfied Santander did take the right course of action for
him.
I dont think Santander took control of the situation or supported Mr B in his claim 
especially considering the large amount of money involved. Ive not seen any evidence to
suggest Santander updated Mr B throughout the duration of the claim, that he was notified of
the chargeback claim being closed or that a fraud dispute was set up in its place.
From the outset Mr Bs maintained he only authorised the initial transaction to merchant Xwhich was declined. I think this is clear as Mr B went on to make a holiday booking through a
different merchant for a similar product. So, its reasonable for him to believe because
Santander had declined the transaction from merchant X that was the end of the matter.
But regardless of Mr Bs understanding, and the fact that Santander told him to make it again
if he wanted to continue, which he didnt, Santander authorised the second transaction.
Santander has suggested that as only the initial payment to merchant X was declined by it
and not the booking with merchant X, they were able to reprocess the payment a few days
later. But Ive not seen any evidence to suggest the booking remained open. Mr B says he
had no correspondence from merchant X until receiving a booking confirmation however this
was after the second payment had been processed. And whilst this confirmed the booking
was non-refundable and could not be amended or modified  Ive not seen anything to
suggest Mr B had committed to the booking prior to deciding not to proceed.
Im also not satisfied that its fair of Santander to apply, or link, Mr Bs authorisation of the
first transaction to the second transaction. Mr B authorised the first transaction only, and
even when he did this it was declined by Santander. By agreeing to the first transaction Mr B
wasnt agreeing to any further payment request from the merchant; he was agreeing to that
first transaction alone, which Santander chose to decline.
I also find it unusual that Santander was so concerned about the security of the first
transaction that it was declined even after Mr B agreed he authorised it. And yet Santander
allowed the second transaction to be authorised without contacting Mr B, even though it was
for the same large amount and from the same merchant that had previously triggered a
security warning. Santander are of course free to set their own security policies but had
Santander contacted Mr B when the second transaction was presented this situation
wouldve been avoided.
Santander says that merchant X were at fault for re-presenting the payment. But in not
proceeding with the chargeback dispute Santander didnt ask merchant X to defend their
actions. Had it done so merchant X may have been able to evidence Mr B had entered into a
contract with them prior to the initial payment being declined and that payment was due.
Ive seen no evidence that merchant X had Mr Bs permission to keep his card details and
process the transaction again. Because Santander cancelled the chargeback it has lost its
opportunity to get this information, which is no fault of Mr B.
But it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Santander to resume the chargeback now as its no
longer able to do that. Im satisfied that Mr B only authorised the initial payment  which was
declined, and he chose not to proceed or make the payment again.
Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that if Santander had continued with the
chargeback and contacted merchant X to fully conduct the investigation, as I think it
shouldve done, that it wouldve been successful. So Santander should pay the payment of
£10,236.88 to Mr B.
Santander should also pay 8% simple interest on the above amount from the date the
payment left Mr Bs account in November 2019 until the date of settlement. If Santander
deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mr B with the
appropriate tax deduction certificate.
I also think Santander should pay Mr B £250 for its failure to update him or deal with the
situation more promptly throughout what has no doubt been a period of both inconvenience
and distress not knowing if he was getting his money back. I think that provides a fair andreasonable outcome to this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me for 
a final decision.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my final decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I require Santander UK Plc to do the following:
Pay Mr B the amount of £10,236.88 to put him back into the position he was in before 
the disputed transaction left his account.
Pay 8% simple annual interest on £10,236.88 from the date the payment left
Mr Bs account in November 2019 until the date of settlement.
Pay compensation of £250 to Mr B.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman