DRN-1046449
 
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Vitality Health Limited declined her private health insurance claim. My 
references to Vitality include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs G has private health insurance, insured by Vitality. She had an accident on her bike and 
had injuries which caused significant damage to one of her breast implants she had from 
previous cosmetic surgery. She made a claim to repair the damage.
Vitality declined the claim. It said the policy doesn't cover any treatment related to previous 
cosmetic surgery. 
Mrs G complained to us that the policy wording said her treatment would be covered if she 
had an accident.
Our investigator thought the policy wording wasnt clear enough that Vitality only covered 
new cosmetic surgery following accidental injury. Our investigator recommended Vitality 
consider the claim against the remaining terms and conditions. As Mrs G had already begun 
the process of receiving treatment he also said Vitality shouldn't decline the claim because 
treatment has been sought without obtaining its consent as long as Mrs G could show the 
treatment was necessary and the start of treatment couldn't wait for us to make a final 
decision on the matter.
Vitality doesn't agree and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said wed made a decision on 
a similar complaint where wed agreed the relevant policy wording was clear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Vitality fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I dont think it 
did. I uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says Vitality doesnt cover:
Treatment where the primary aim is to improve appearance (cosmetic treatment), whether 
or not for psychological reasons, or any treatment that results from or relates to previous 
cosmetic treatment, body modifications (e.g. piercings) or reconstructive surgery.
However, we will cover certain cosmetic treatment where eligible under our Lifestyle Surgery 
benefits. We will also cover the initial treatment to restore function or appearance where this 
is needed as a direct result of an accidental injury or as a result of treatment for cancer 
that occurs after your cover start date. Any subsequent related treatment will only be 
covered if intended to cure an acute condition.Vitality says Mrs G only needed the treatment she claimed for because of her previous 
breast implants and Ive no medical evidence to show thats incorrect. Vitality also says the 
above policy wording is clear it only covers cosmetic surgery following accidental injury to a 
body part that hasn't already undergone cosmetic surgery. While I accept thats Vitalitys 
intention I dont think the above policy wording is clear enough theres no cover for Mrs Gs 
situation.
The first paragraph of the above policy term does say the policy won't cover cosmetic 
treatment or any treatment that results from or relates to previous cosmetic treatment. 
But the second paragraph of policy term says there are certain circumstances where it will 
cover cosmetic treatment. The use of the word However at the start of the paragraph 
suggests that the second paragraph is giving exceptions to the general rule in the first 
paragraph.
I think its reasonable for Mrs G to read that second paragraph as meaning Vitality will cover 
certain cosmetic treatment where eligible under our Lifestyle Surgery benefits and also it 
will cover initial treatment to restore function or appearance where this is needed as a direct 
result of an accidental injury. Its not clear that initial treatment means treatment to a body 
part that hasn't already undergone cosmetic surgery. Initial treatment can reasonably be 
understood to mean not long-term treatment particularly as the wording goes on to say 
subsequent related treatment will only be covered if intended to cure an acute condition.
Mrs G needed treatment to restore function or appearance as a result of any accidental 
injury. So I think she can reasonably understand from the policy wording that her 
circumstances fall into the exceptions to the general rule that cosmetic treatment isnt 
covered.
The above policy wording is very ambiguous. Where theres ambiguity in the policy its fair to 
give an interpretation in favour of the non-drafting party, Mrs G. Vitality didnt fairly decline 
the claim on the basis there was no cover for her situation.
Vitality says in a decision on another complaint made to us we agreed the policy wording 
was clear. But that complaint was finalised by an opinion letter from one of our investigators, 
the complaint didnt proceed to an ombudsmans decision. Also, I make my decision on the 
individual facts of each case. I'm satisfied the policy wording is ambiguous and it's fair for 
treatment to be covered in Mrs G's circumstances subject to the remaining policy terms.
I note Mrs G has had the treatment. Miss G told us she was in pain with her implants after 
the accident. Her consultant has written to say she had the surgery to address the issue with 
the implants, the scar tissue which was starting to harden as well as the aesthetics. As 
Mrs G was in pain with the scar tissue staring to harden I think it's more likely than not 
that the start of treatment couldn't wait for us to make a final decision on the matter and was 
necessary. If the policy required Mrs G to get Vitality's consent for treatment before 
proceeding then I don't think it fair in these circumstances for Vitality to decline the claim 
because treatment was taken without first obtaining its consent.
Putting things right
Vitality must assess the claim as if the treatment was covered but subject to the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.I require Vitality Health Limited to assess Mrs Gs claim as if the treatment was covered but 
subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman