DRN-4299100
The complaint
Mrs H complains that a used car she acquired with finance provided by N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited (trading as Northridge Finance) is of unsatisfactory quality and she wants to reject it 
and receive a refund. 
What happened
Mrs H acquired this car with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) she took out with Northridge 
Finance in August 2022. The car was delivered towards the end of that month and a service 
light came on about a month later. Mrs H took the car back to the supplying dealer (that Ill 
call A) who said the car had been serviced in July 2022 and reset the light. Not long after the 
engine started to overheat and an engine management light (EML) illuminated. A said the 
car was now outside its 60 day warranty and, unhappy with that response, Mrs H 
complained to Northridge Finance in November 2022. 
The car went back to A in December 2022 and A sent it to a main dealer for the brand for 
checks. The main dealer found an EML was on, the car had reduced power, a fault code 
was stored, a new tank vent valve was required plus a new waste gate valve and coolant 
was low, so this was topped up. The car was returned to A who also replaced the head 
gasket. This work took a few months and Mrs H says she chased A several times but didnt 
receive an update. Northridge Finance wrote to Mrs H in early 2023 apologising that it hadnt 
yet reached an outcome on her complaint - it says difficulties arose as A had IT issues. 
Northridge Finance gave Mrs H referral rights to our service and she contacted us stating 
that she wanted to reject the car and receive a refund of all payments made plus 
compensation. Mrs H also said she asked for a payment break but Northridge Finance 
refused - meaning she had to borrow cars from family members which impacted adversely 
on her wider family and her job. Northridge Finance told us it offered to cancel the direct 
debit and discussed other options available if Mrs H was having financial difficulties, which 
she declined.   
One of our investigators considered the evidence and he recommended the complaint 
should be upheld. He was satisfied the car probably had a fault present when it was supplied 
- he thought the evidence suggested an overheating issue had developed and the car likely 
had a fault at the outset. He considered repair was a reasonable option however and Mrs H 
shouldnt be entitled to reject. He acknowledged some additional issues were identified  
such as issues with the internal heating and valves that needed replacing. But he wasnt 
persuaded that these meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied - 
given its age and mileage, they were fixed at no cost to Mrs H and hadnt affected her use of 
the vehicle. 
The investigator was satisfied that Mrs H was unable to use the car from October until 
December 2022  when she was given a courtesy car while repairs were completed (at no 
additional cost to her). He found it was fair overall for Mrs H to receive a refund of two 
monthly payments (plus interest) to reflect her lost/impaired use and Northridge Finance 
should also pay her £150 compensation for associated distress and inconvenience. 
Northridge Finance accepted the investigators recommendations but Mrs H disagreed. She 
said things went wrong again two weeks after collecting the car in May 2023 - the engine 
overheated, a light came on, the car cut out and had to be recovered so she lost a days pay 
and had to pay £180 for vehicle recovery. She thinks a refund of just two monthly payments 
is unfair - as she only drove her own car for about two and a half of the eleven months she 
had it. She feels shes been paying for a car she couldnt drive and shed have paid a lot less 
for the courtesy vehicle - which wasnt the same brand or a similar model to her car.  
Mrs H says the car was delivered after she took out the finance because it was in the garage 
for something the dealer didnt tell her about. She believes it still has a serious fault - 
meaning its unreliable and unsafe - so she should be allowed to reject it. She supplied an 
email chain with A about the most recent breakdown and said she only agreed to the repairs 
because she needed transport and A wouldn't supply a courtesy car if her car was going to 
be rejected. 
The investigator considered the additional evidence but his view remained unchanged. He 
wasnt persuaded that the May breakdown was likely to be due to issues which were present 
or developing when the car was supplied - or linked to the previous fault. He was satisfied 
that Mrs H was kept mobile most of the time her car was in for repairs. And A had discussed 
the option to reject with her in May 2023 but she chose not to and authorised repairs - which 
were successful. 
Mrs H remained unhappy and she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I can see that Mrs H has gone to some trouble to provide information here and I want to 
assure her, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I havent 
thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. Im going to 
concentrate however on what I think is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
overall. 
Northridge Finance supplied this car to Mrs H under a under a HPA and it was obliged, 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), to ensure that the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the outset. The level of quality thats considered satisfactory will vary depending 
on circumstances. In the case of most used cars its generally reasonable to take the age, 
cost and mileage at the point of supply into account. This car was around five years old with 
over 54,000 miles on the clock and cost over £14,000. As such, I think a reasonable person 
would appreciate theres likely to be some wear and tear present and parts will probably 
need to be replaced sooner or later - and thats reflected in the price paid. 
For much the same reasons as the investigator, I dont think the internal heating failure 
means a car of this age, price and mileage was of unsatisfactory quality. And I dont have 
enough evidence to fairly find the valves which had to be replaced were faulty at the point of 
supply. There doesnt seem to be any dispute however that the car did have a fault present 
when Mrs H got it, which caused the engine to overheat. Im satisfied this means the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied and Ive given some thought to whats an 
appropriate remedy in the circumstances. For the avoidance of any doubt, I have noted Mrs Hs comments about Northridges 
response to her request for a payment break. Im aware however that she subsequently told 
the investigator this was included for information only - and it doesnt form part of her 
complaint - so I dont need to address the matter further in my decision.
Putting things right 
The CRA says a consumer like Mrs H has the short term right to reject faulty goods. That 
must be exercised within the first thirty days of purchase however and Mrs H didnt do so 
here. After the first 30 days, the CRA allows for a price reduction or a final right to reject if 
theres been a repair or replacement and theres still a problem - or repair or replacement is 
impossible or disproportionate, or the consumer asked for a repair or replacement but this 
wasnt done in a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience. 
Im satisfied that A arranged/carried out a number of repairs here - which included replacing 
the head gasket - at no cost to Mrs H. And I think it looks as if the work undertaken resolved 
the overheating fault present at the outset. I can see the car broke down again not long after 
Mrs H collected it and I realise that must have been very frustrating for her. However the 
emails she exchanged with A at the relevant time suggest this was due to a different issue  
the thermostat collapsed and a crack in the turbocharger manifold contaminated the catalytic 
converter. 
This happened some nine months after supply. Ive seen no compelling evidence to suggest 
that the problem is likely to have been present when Mrs H got the car - which means I cant 
fairly hold Northridge responsible. And, even if I was persuaded it was due to an inherent 
fault, Im satisfied that Mrs H authorised repairs and these seem to have fixed things. I find it 
understandable that Mrs H has lost some confidence in the car, in light of whats happened. 
But Ive got nothing to show the car still has faults present - which are likely to have been 
there at the outset. And I cant fairly find she should be entitled to reject the vehicle now, in 
all the circumstances. 
     
There seems to be no dispute that Mrs H was unable to use her car from October 2022 and 
a courtesy car wasnt supplied until December the same year. The replacement vehicle 
wasnt the same make and model as Mrs Hs car and she says she would have paid less for 
it so she should be compensated accordingly. The investigator asked for more evidence 
about Mrs Hs loss but nothings been supplied. Im satisfied she seems to have been kept 
mobile from December 2022 until her car was fixed and, based on the evidence available, I 
agree with the investigator its fair that Mrs H should receive a refund of two monthly 
payments (plus interest) to reflect her lost/impaired use. 
Im satisfied that Mrs H probably experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of 
being supplied with this faulty car - among other things, she had to take it back for various 
repairs and investigations due to overheating. The investigator recommended Northridge 
Finance should pay Mrs H an additional £150 compensation for this and I think that sounds 
reasonable. I appreciate Mrs H says family members were also upset and inconvenienced 
by what happened here but Im unable to require Northridge Finance to compensate any 
third party.  
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs H, as its not the outcome 
she wanted. Shes not obliged to accept what Ive said however, in which case it remains 
open to her to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require N.I.I.B. Group Limited (trading as Northridge Finance) to-
1. refund two monthly finance payments for loss of use and pay interest on the refund at 
8% simple yearly from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
2. pay Mrs H an additional £150 compensation for the associated distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
If Northridge Finance does not pay the £150 compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it that Mrs H accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% simple yearly 
interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
If Northridge Finance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman