DRN-2412160
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage Mr and Mrs E took out in 2014, on the 
advice and recommendation of an advisor who is a representative of The On-Line 
Partnership Limited (TOLP). Mr and Mrs E complain that TOLP should not have 
recommended they take the mortgage out.
 
What happened
This is one of a pair of linked complaints, as Mr and Mrs E have, at the same time, 
complained that the provider of the equity release mortgage (here, Ill refer to the lender as 
A) should not have lent them the money. The two complaints are discrete from each other, 
and my decision here deals solely with the actions of TOLP. My decision on the complaint 
against A will be a separate document. 
That said, the two complaints do arise from a common set of circumstances, so its inevitable 
that there will be a degree of commonality in the two narratives.  Also, there will be 
occasions in this decision against TOLP where I will refer to A, because context requires me 
to.
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex and the evidence in 
the case, is detailed. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence 
are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated 
documents and repeated arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised 
events in rather less detail than has been presented, using my own words and rounding the 
figures. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my 
decision is published.
Mr and Mrs E met with the advisor in late 2014; they wished to borrow money to achieve 
three main objectives:
circa £59,000 to repay an existing loan;
circa £40,000 to make gifts to their children; and
circa £100,000 to pay the balance on an overseas property investment theyd agreed to 
buy and paid a deposit on several years previously. 
To achieve these objectives TOLPs advisor recommended an equity release mortgage from 
A. The amount borrowed was £200,000 with a reserve of around £105,000 for possible 
future draw-downs. Sadly, some time after Mr and Mrs E had completed on the purchase of 
the overseas property, the developer went out of business, and their property was taken by 
the liquidators. 
.
The gist of Mr and Mrs Es complaint is that the equity release mortgage that enabled them 
to complete the purchase shouldnt have happened, for two broad reasons; these are, in 
summary:
their home was the subject of an irrevocable trust, making it unsuitable security for an 
equity release mortgage; and
TOLP shouldnt have recommended they take out the mortgage to fund such a risky 
investment.
Two of our investigators considered the complaint, but neither recommended it be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs E have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and made a 
further detailed submission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
So that theres no ambiguity, that includes the material received from Mr and Mrs E on 4 
January 2021.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr and Mrs E have been for so long here, its 
a natural subjective reaction to want to pursue every individual issue with vigour. But I have 
a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping 
back from the fine detail and taking an overview. 
TOLPs advisor recommended Mr and Mrs E take out the mortgage that they used (in part, 
at least) to fund their overseas purchase. But that doesnt mean TOLPs advisor was in any 
way responsible for the overseas purchase itself, or advising Mr and Mrs E on its suitability 
as an investment. 
By their own evidence, Mr and Mrs Es decision to invest overseas was taken several years 
before the mortgage advice was given, and theyd already paid a substantial deposit. TOLP 
had nothing to do with that. Mr and Mrs E have previously brought a complaint to us about 
the financial business that did recommend they make the investment. The complaint against TOLP is that the mortgage its advisor recommended was unsuitable 
for Mr and Mrs Es needs and circumstances as documented in 2014. Thats what I have to 
decide and in reaching my conclusions, I can have no regard for the hindsight that 
subsequent events have brought. 
The starting position here is the point of sale documentation from 2014. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. 
Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be recorded 
incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a distance 
of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it.
The information-gathering exercise, captured in a document called a fact find, identified the 
specific financial objectives I listed earlier. It also indicated that Mr and Mrs E were in need 
of some form of borrowing if they were to be able to realise those stated objectives and 
didnt want to commit to making monthly payments. They were, to use their own description, 
asset rich, income poor.
Mr and Mrs E have said in the complaint that the money for the investment was only ever 
required for a short period; perhaps two or three years, until they could obtain a mortgage on 
the overseas property. But theres nothing about this in the point-of-sale documentation from 
2014; its not mentioned in the fact finds or in the advisors letter of 16 October 2014 
summarising his advice and the reasons for it.
But what the 16 October 2014 letter did make clear (as did the mortgage offer in a format 
approved by the regulator) ) is that the equity release mortgage is, by design, a type of loan 
that is only expected to be repaid from the sale of the property after the last surviving 
borrower has either died or been required by circumstance to move into residential care. It 
can be repaid for other reasons but will generally attract an early repayment charge. 
That makes Mr and Mrs Es case very different from the complaint they have referenced in 
their evidence. In that case, a fellow ombudsman decided it was wrong to recommend an 
interest-only mortgage to invest overseas where the investment itself was the repayment 
strategy for the loan. The main point about equity release is that it doesnt require a 
repayment strategy.
Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been a 
better option. Bridging loans are typically lent for a maximum of six or, very occasionally, 
twelve months (not two to three years) and given the overall financial circumstances that 
prevailed at both times, its very unlikely that Mr and Mrs E would have been accepted for a 
traditional mortgage. In any event, a traditional mortgage, whether capital repayment or 
interest-only, would have required monthly payments to be made.
This, combined with my earlier finding that some borrowing was necessary, meant that 
equity release (which required no monthly repayment) was probably the only viable option 
for Mr and Mrs E given the circumstances recorded at the time. Whether the plans for the 
money being raised came to fruition after the mortgage was arranged doesnt affect the 
suitability or otherwise of the advice given at the time.
That brings me to the question of the irrevocable trust. Theres a great deal of comment in 
the evidence from both sides about the nature and validity of the trust, the effect it would or should have had on TOLPs recommendation. Im not an expert in trusts, but I dont need to 
be in order to deal with the point as it relates to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs E maintain that they told TOLPs advisor the trust existed and that he failed to 
pass this on for A to take into account when deciding whether to lend. Clearly, Mr and Mrs E 
did tell TOLPs advisor that the trust existed  its recorded on the fact find; in any event, its 
my understanding that the same advisor was involved in the creation of the trust several 
years earlier (when representing a different firm from TOLP). So the next thing for me to 
consider is whether TOLPs advisor told A about the trust, and if he didnt, what impact that 
had on the suitability of the mortgage recommendation.
The available evidence points to the likelihood that TOLPs advisor didnt tell A about the 
trust. Mr and Mrs E say that means the advice to take the mortgage out was fundamentally 
flawed, but actually the matters rather more nuanced than that. If we conclude that a 
financial business has made a mistake (in this case, by failing to do something it should 
have done) then we have to consider how events might have unfolded differently if the 
mistake hadnt happened.
Ive thought very hard about what would have happened on the balance of probabilities if 
TOLPs advisor had made A aware of the presence of a trust. It seems to me that the most 
likely answer is that A would have required TOLPs advisor to obtain fuller and better 
particulars from Mr and Mrs E about the current status of the trust, to allow A to assess the 
impact the trusts existence might have on the feasibility of providing the equity release 
mortgage. 
And if that conversation had taken place, it seems more than likely to me that it would have 
revealed in 2014 what came to light in 2019. That is, that the trust in question had been 
created in respect of a previous property that Mr and Mrs E had held as tenants in common. 
In contrast, the current property being offered as security for the mortgage was held in joint 
tenancy, and therefore unaffected by any trust. 
Ive no power to consider how or why that state of affairs might have come about; thats 
matter for Mr and Mrs E to take up with whomever acted for them in the acquisition of their 
current property as joint tenants. But the key point is that the omission makes no difference 
to the outcome of this complaint. Even if TOLP had told A about the trust, any resulting 
dialogue would most likely have confirmed there was no impediment to TOLP continuing 
with its recommendation of the equity release mortgage on Mr and Mrs Es current property.
 
Mr and Mrs E clearly had high hopes for their overseas investment, and it seems to me that 
their highest priority in 2014 was borrowing the money they needed to complete on it. The 
equity release mortgage was, as Ive found, the only realistic means of achieving that, and I 
cant find the advice to take it out unsuitable because of what happened later. 
I understand how devastated Mr and Mrs E must be that the investment was taken away 
from them in the way it was. But however much sympathy I might have for their situation, 
overall I cant find that this has happened because of acts or omissions on the part of 
TOLPs advisor.
Mr and Mrs E dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
TOLP will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Es right to take legal action against TOLP over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman