DRN-3760068
The complaint
Miss B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss B was provided with a Capital One credit card in September 2020. The credit limit 
applied at that time was £200. In December 2021, Miss Bs credit limit was increased to 
£700. Miss B says the lending was unaffordable and proportionate checks werent carried 
out.
Capital One says that before lending to a customer it carries out checks using data from 
credit reference agencies, information provided through the application process, non-
customer-specific data sources and data it has on the customer. It says Miss Bs application 
met its creditworthiness and affordability checks. It says it carried out further affordability 
checks before Miss Bs credit limit was increased to £700.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that Capital One did anything 
wrong by providing the credit card with a £200 credit limit and then increasing the credit limit 
to £700. 
Miss B didnt agree with our adjudicators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Capital One was required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before lending to 
Miss B. There isnt a specific list of checks that a business must undertake but Capital One 
needed to ensure the checks were proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. 
When Miss B applied for a credit card with Capital One, she was recorded as being 
employed with an annual income of £22,000. Capital Ones credit check showed she had 
£1,100 in other borrowing and it said having considered an amount for her expenses the 
lending was affordable. I havent seen a copy of Capital Ones credit check and Miss B 
hasnt provided a copy of her credit report and so, without further evidence, I am unable to 
say that Capital Ones results as recorded were incorrect. While I havent seen the results of 
Capital Ones checks I also havent been provided with any evidence to the contrary and 
noting the initial credit limit of £200 I do not find I have evidence to say that Capital One 
should have considered this lending unaffordable. 
In December 2021, Capital One increased Miss Bs credit limit to £700. By this time, Miss B 
had been using her credit card for around 14 months. She didnt appear overly reliant on the 
credit card, hadnt breached her credit limit and was making more than the required monthly 
repayments. Therefore, I do not find that her account management would have raised 
concerns. I have looked at the credit information received by Capital One at the time and this 
showed that Miss B had one historic default but the other information gathered didnt raise 
concerns that I think meant further checks were required. Miss Bs external debt was 
recorded as £2,100 but I do not find that this would suggest the increased credit limit would 
be unaffordable.
Overall, I think that the checks carried out before the credit card was provided, and before 
the credit limit was increased, were reasonable. As these didnt raise concerns about the 
affordability of the lending, I do not find that I have enough to say that Capital One was 
wrong to provide the lending. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman