DRN-2921472
The complaint
Mr B complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) have unfairly 
applied a default to his credit file, following missed repayments to his personal loan. 
What happened
Mr B took a loan out with Everyday Loans in December 2018. It had a repayment term of   
24 months. Unfortunately, Mr B has explained that his income was impacted greatly by 
Brexit and the Covid pandemic. 
Everyday Loans has said that Mr B missed repayments in May 2019 and between 
September 2019 and February 2020. They say that his account was at the stage of 
defaulting at this time. However, a payment plan was instead agreed with Mr B to prevent 
this. Everyday loans say they applied the default after they didnt receive a payment in 
March 2020.  
Mr B was unhappy and complained to Everyday Loans. He said that he hadnt been treated 
fairly and that when his income was restored, he repaid the balance of the loan five months 
early in July 2020. Everyday Loans said that they had acted correctly and that the default 
was an accurate reflection of Mr Bs account history. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. The investigator 
thought Everyday Loans had acted fairly. He said that Everyday Loans had shown sympathy 
towards Mr Bs position by agreeing to a payment plan, but that the default was correct when 
this plan wasnt kept to. 
Mr B didnt accept this. He didnt think he had been treated fairly. As he remains unhappy, 
its now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr B that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
was it reasonable to issue a default notice? 
Its not in dispute that Mr B didnt pay his monthly instalments in line with his loans 
contractual agreement. Mr B was required to pay around £340 per month but missed 
payments in May, June and August 2019 and didnt pay the full contractual payment in    
July 2019. 
Despite a payment of £350 in September 2019, nothing further was received until February 
2020 and no further payment was made in March 2020. I think its reasonable to say that the 
account was substantially in arrears and that there were repayments which had been 
outstanding for quite some time after their due date. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is the body set up to deal with a customers 
personal information. In January 2014 it released a paper called Principles for reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. This document set out 
principles for lenders (which Everyday Loans is one) when reporting information to the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs). 
The ICO requires that information reported on a credit file is ..fair, accurate, consistent, 
complete and up to date and where regular payments are not made by the agreed date, 
principle two of the document says: If you do not make your regular expected payment by 
the agreed time and/or for the agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the 
account may be reported to the CRAs as being in arrears. 
If this continues over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, which may result in the 
lender taking some form of action. This could include notification of their intention to report 
the account as defaulted. Considering these principles in connection with Mr Bs repayment 
history, Im satisfied that it was fair for Everyday Loans to issue the default notice on 2 April 
2020. 
was it reasonable to record a default? 
Principle four of the ICO guidance explains that generally a default may be recorded when 
you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by the time you are 6 months in arrears. This 
principle also explains when a default shouldnt be recorded. This includes the exceptions 
that a default shouldnt be filed If you make a payment, in time, that fully meets the terms set 
out in the default notice and where an agreement is reached for an arrangement and you 
keep to the terms of that arrangement. 
In this case Mr B didnt make a payment during the default notice period. He hadnt made 
the two weekly payments in September 2019 that he had said he would. Everyday Loans 
have also said that they were going to reschedule the account if the March 2020 payment 
had been made, but it wasnt. Mr B had arrears of over 5 months. 
Mr B has said that he wasnt treated fairly and that the arrears were due to external 
circumstances such as Brexit and the Covid pandemic. Mr B has said he pointed to the fact 
that he paid the loan off early in July 2020 to suggest that it was a temporary issue that 
Everyday Loans could have been more sympathetic to. 
Whilst I acknowledge the difficult circumstances that Mr B found himself in, I do think that 
Everyday loans treated him fairly. The account was in arrears from May 2019, almost a year 
by the time of the notice of default in April 2020. The account was also several months in 
arrears by then. 
Mr B has also said that other lenders were treating customers better at the time the 
pandemic started by offering payment holidays in line with guidance from the regulator. 
However, the guidance did state that this was for customers who were not in arrears at the time the pandemic started, unlike Mr B. Everyday Loans had agreed to reschedule the 
account after two repayments were made but this didnt happen.  
So overall, taking on board the ICO principle for recording a default and the time that Mr Bs 
account was in arrears and the attempts made to help Mr B get the account back on track in 
September 2019 and February 2020, Im satisfied that Everyday Loans acted reasonably by 
registering a default for Mr Bs loan. 
I accept my decision will disappoint Mr B. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont require 
Everyday Loans to do anything to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve Mr Bs dispute with Everyday Loans  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman