DRN-2033211
The complaint
Mr M complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) lent 
irresponsibly to him
Background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter in which I said I was minded to partly uphold the 
complaint. That provisional decision is attached and forms part of my final decision. I asked 
the parties to comment on how I intended to settle the matter. 
Mr M acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision, but he did not provide any further 
evidence for me to consider. Lending Stream did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
As neither party has provided me with any further information or evidence to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. So for the reasons set out in 
that provisional decision, I uphold the complaint in respect of loan 5. Lending Stream will 
need to take action to put things right. 
Putting things right
As I said above, it appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of loans 4 & 5. If that is 
the case and Lending Stream sold the outstanding debts to a third party, it will need to buy 
them back if it can and then follow the steps set out below. If it cannot buy the debts back, it 
must liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
 
a.Lending Stream must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan
5, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of
the principal on this loan. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then
Lending Stream must refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated
and paid on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen,
to the date the complaint is settled.
b. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M. It must not pursue outstanding
balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
c. Lending Stream must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file
in relation to loan 5.* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Lending Stream and Mr M do agree a repayment plan, I remind Lending Stream of its
obligation to treat Mr M fairly.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Gain Credit LLC to comply with the above 'putting 
things right' section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copy of my provisional decision The complaint
Mr M complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) lent 
irresponsibly to him.
Background
Between December 2017 and January 2019, Mr M borrowed five loans from Lending
Stream. The lending history is set out as follows:
Loan   Date Taken  Date Repaid   Instalments   Amount
1       16/12/2017    25/04/2018             6             £300.00
2       09/03/2018    22/06/2018             6             £700.00
3       26/04/2018    18/07/2018             6             £690.00
4       11/01/2019   Outstanding            6             £750.00
5       14/01/2019   Outstanding            6             £750.00
 
As there was a gap between Mr M taking out loan 3 and 4, our adjudicator thought there
were two separate chains of lending. He thought the checks Lending Stream had undertaken 
were proportionate and so he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M disagreed with that view. He said the complaint should have been upheld in respect of
all five loans. He provided a copy of some bank statements and his credit report.
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me
for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
As things stand, Ive provisionally decided to uphold this complaint in respect of loan 5.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr
M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include:
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
The first thing Ive considered is whether there were two chains of lending in this case. With
respect to our adjudicator, I provisionally think there was one chain. I say this because less
than six months had passed in between Mr M repaying loan 3 and applying for loan 4. And
his borrowing was similar  he borrowed £700 for loan 2, £690 for loan 3 and £750 for loan
4. I can also see that when Mr M applied for loan 1, Lending Stream independently verified
his income. It did not do so for loans 2 to 5. So it doesnt appear to me that Lending Stream
considered loan 4 to effectively constitute a new lending relationship. On balance then, I will
provisionally treat all loans as the same chain.
I appreciate Mr M fees strongly that his financial position was such that Lending Stream
shouldnt have agreed to provide any loans to him. But as I said above, early in the lending
relationship, Lending Stream is entitled to rely on the information Mr M provided to it. For
loans 1 to 4, I think it was proportionate for Lending Stream to rely on the information
provided by Mr M when deciding whether to agree the loans.
In respect of loans 1 to 4, I can see Lending Stream made enquiries about Mr Ms income
and expenditure and it made relevant adjustments to increase that expenditure to give what
it considered to be a more realistic picture of Mr Ms likely outgoings. And it had verified his
income at the outset with loan 1. I know Mr M feels that if Lending Stream had checked his
credit report, it wouldnt have agreed to lend him the loans that it did. That may well be the
case. But at this very early stage, I wouldnt expect Lending Stream to undertake that level 
ofscrutiny. Im provisionally satisfied that in respect of loans 1 to 4, the checks Lending  
Stream conducted were proportionate. I cant provisionally say it was irresponsible to lend 
loans 1 to 4.
However, by the time Mr M applied for loan 5, I think the situation had changed. Loan 5 was
for £750 and Mr M applied for this borrowing only three days after had borrowed another
£750 with loan 4. Looking at the information he provided for loan 5, I can see he told Lending 
Stream that his income was £100 more each month than it had been three days earlier. And 
his expenditure in respect of utilities, food and miscellaneous expenses had reportedly 
decreased by £200. Whilst Mr Ms monthly repayments for loan 4 exceeded £200, he 
reported that his monthly credit commitments had increased only by £100.Im aware that Lending Stream made some adjustments to the figures declared by Mr M. But 
I think the apparent discrepancies in his declared income, coupled with the fact that he had 
applied to double the amount he had borrowed within three days, should have put Lending 
Stream on notice that he may have been struggling financially. And at that point, I think a 
proportionate check should have constituted a full review of Mr Ms financial circumstances.I 
said above that there was one chain of lending. For completeness, even if I am wrong on 
that point and there were two chains, Im provisionally satisfied that there were sufficient 
reasons set out above for Lending Stream to undertake further enquiries even if this was 
only the second loan in the chain.
Had that review been undertaken, I think Lending Stream would have seen that Mr M had a
large number of financial commitments. He had numerous credit cards for which he had
missed repayments fairly regularly. He was also regularly over his credit limit on those cards
and had withdrawn a number of cash advances. He had defaulted on at least one credit
account and had been in arrears with another short-term lender in the months before he
applied for this borrowing.
Moreover, had a full financial review been done, I think Lending Stream would have seen
that Mr M was spending a lot of money each month using online gambling sites. Clearly,
such spending would have had a significant impact on his ability to repay his loan to Lending 
Stream.
So putting all of these things together, if it had undertaken a proportionate check, I think
Lending Stream would have seen that Mr M could not sustainably repay loan 5.
For those reasons, I intend to uphold the complaint in respect of loan 5 and require Lending
Stream to take action to put things right.
Putting things right
As I said above, it appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of loans 4 & 5. If that is 
the case and Lending Stream sold the outstanding debts to a third party, it will need to buy 
them back if it can and then follow the steps set out below. If it cannot buy the debts back, it 
must liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
 
a. Lending Stream must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan
5, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of
the principal on this loan. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then
Lending Stream must refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated
and paid on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen,
to the date the complaint is settled.
b. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M. It must not pursue outstanding
balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
c. Lending Stream must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file
in relation to loan 5.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Lending Stream and Mr M do agree a repayment plan, I remind Lending Stream of its
obligation to treat Mr M fairly.My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Ive provisionally decided to partially uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I intend to require Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream to put things right as set out
above.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman