DRN-3673246
The complaint
Miss S complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) unfairly declined her 
claim under her motor insurance policy. Miss S had representation during the complaint, but 
for ease and simplicity I will only refer to Miss S.
What happened
Miss S car was stolen when she stopped at a shop to buy some water as she felt thirsty and 
wasnt feeling well. When Miss S made a claim for the theft to her insurer, Skyfire declined 
the claim as Miss S had left her keys in the car unattended.
Miss S has explained how she was unhappy with Skyfires decision on her claim. She 
explained how her own vulnerable circumstances contributed to her mistake by leaving her 
car unattended. She asked for Skyfire to be sympathetic as she had made a genuine 
mistake.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Skyfire had fairly declined 
the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She considered Miss S 
vulnerable circumstances, but she didnt see any evidence presented during the claim that 
these significantly contributed to the mistake that was made in leaving her car unattended. 
Miss S disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skyfire declined the claim as it said Miss S hadnt complied with her responsibilities under 
the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I have reviewed the policy to see what relevant 
terms are included. 
A condition of the policy is that you must do all you can to protect your car from loss or 
damage and make sure it is legally roadworthy. If you fail to keep to any conditions, the 
insurers may reject your claim.
The policy shows an exclusion loss if ignition keys are left in or on the car while unattended 
or if the car is not secured which is supported by further text
loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the keys, keyless device or any 
other vehicle locking devices are left in or on your car while unattended or left 
unattended with the engine running.
loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the car is unattended without 
being properly secured, including windows, roof openings, removable roof panels or 
hood.
Therefore, if Skyfire has shown that Miss S hasnt protected her car from loss, then Im likely 
to say it has been fair in declining the claim. These conditions are clearly set out in the policy 
documentation that Miss S received and had the opportunity to review.
Ive listened to the calls between Skyfire and Miss S, and from the discussion its clear Miss 
S admitted she didnt comply with the terms and conditions of her policy as she left her keys 
unattended. So, I think Skyfire has been fair in declining the claim, as it did so based on the 
relevant terms and conditions.
However, Miss S explained that specific circumstances at the time of the incident made her 
vulnerable. I would need to see clear and unequivocal evidence that the vulnerability made it 
impossible for Miss S not to comply with the terms and conditions. Unfortunately, the 
available evidence doesnt persuade me this was the case, so I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
Miss S didnt inform Skyfire of her vulnerable circumstances at the time of making her claim. 
During the call, Miss S told Skyfire shed left the keys in the ignition and the car running as 
she was so close to the shop. On a later call, Miss S told Skyfire that she was running late 
for work and that shed left the windows of her car slightly open to help thaw the frost that 
was on them.
By leaving her keys unattended and the windows unsecured, Miss S hasnt met the terms 
and conditions of the policy. I think the information Skyfire captured when the claim was 
reported shows that Miss S had thought through what she was doing that morning. So, I 
think Skyfire has been fair to decline the claim. I think the information Miss S provided shows 
she had made a conscious decision to leave the keys in the car and leave her windows 
open. Skyfire were only made aware of Miss S vulnerable circumstances on a later call 
when speaking to Miss S relative.
In addition, I think if Miss S vulnerable circumstances were a significant factor in her leaving 
the keys unattended, then I think this wouldve been raised earlier. As It wasnt, Im not 
persuaded there is a reason why Skyfire shouldnt apply its terms and conditions. Therefore, 
I think Skyfire has acted fairly, and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman