DRN-3696897
The complaint
Mr C and Ms C complain that Saga Services Limited mis-sold them a travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2021, Saga sold Mr and Ms C an annual European travel insurance policy. During the 
sales call, Ms C asked Saga if she could upgrade the annual policy to cover worldwide trips 
at a later date and was told she could. 
When Ms C subsequently tried to upgrade the annual policy, Saga said this wasnt possible 
and it provided her with a quote for single trip worldwide cover instead. Unhappy, Mr and Ms 
C complained to Saga. 
Saga explained that it was possible to upgrade certain policies depending on medical 
scoring, but it should have known in July 2021 that it would be unable to upgrade Mr and Ms 
Cs policy. So, Saga accepted that it had provided incorrect information and gave Mr and Ms 
C a refund of £195.05 (half the premiums theyd paid for the policy). Saga said Mr and Ms C 
couldnt have a refund of all the premiums, as theyd already travelled and therefore 
benefited from the cover available under the annual European policy. Saga also said it was 
standard procedure for it to quote for a single trip policy if an annual policy wasnt available, 
and that the price it had quoted for single trip worldwide cover was correct.  
As Mr and Ms C remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the attention of our 
service. One of our investigators looked into what happened and said he thought Sagas 
decision to refund 50% of the premiums to Mr and Ms C was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr and Ms C didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint 
has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant industry guidance about the sale of insurance policies when 
making my decision, and I dont think this policy was mis-sold to Mr and Ms C. 
Im satisfied that Saga gave Ms C information which was clear, fair and not misleading about 
the benefits actually available (as opposed to any benefits potentially available in the future) 
under the policy they purchased, and I cant fairly say the annual European policy was of no 
use to Mr and Ms C  they had the benefit of cover for the trip they went on the day after the 
policy was purchased, regardless of whether any successful claims were made. This means 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to direct Saga to return the full amount of the premiums they 
paid. 
However, its not in dispute that Saga gave Ms C incorrect advice about the ability to alter 
the policy in the future. If a business gives incorrect advice, wed usually ask it to put the 
consumer back in the position theyd have been in if the correct advice had been given (and 
not as if the incorrect information given had been true). 
I think its likely that, even if Ms C had been told she couldnt amend the annual European 
policy at a later date, shed still have gone ahead and purchased it. I say this because Ive 
listened to the sales call between Ms C and Saga, and I think Ms C made it very clear that 
she wanted to buy an annual trip (and not a single trip) policy. 
Overall, and given that neither the policy terms and conditions nor industry rules require 
Saga to provide a full refund of the premiums paid in these circumstances, I think Sagas 
refund of £195.05 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr and Ms C are unhappy with the alternative single trip quote provided, and 
with the length of time Saga took to look into their complaint. But these issues dont change 
my final decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Ms C, but I wont be directing Saga to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Ms Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman