DRN-2928672
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that, due to delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC, which Mr and 
Mrs W say were completely avoidable, they lost the property they wanted to purchase. 
Mr and Mrs W are also unhappy at the way in which Barclays dealt with their complaint. 
They are asking Barclays to pay them £5,000 for the trouble and upset they were caused, 
and for their financial losses.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything and listened to all the call recordings, and its apparent that some parts of 
the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. In what follows, I have, by 
necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, because our decisions are published, I have to ensure I dont include any 
information that would result in Mr and Mrs W being identified. For all these reasons, my 
summary of the case omits much of the detail, although I confirm I have taken everything the 
parties have said into account.
What happened can be summarised briefly. In late 2019 Mr and Mrs W were moving home 
and wanted to transfer their existing mortgage onto the new property. To enable their 
mortgage broker to do this, Mr and Mrs W needed Barclays to provide them with codes for 
their current products. Unfortunately Barclays provided the incorrect codes. This resulted in 
a delay  Barclay says ten days but Mr and Mrs W say it was six weeks  before the matter 
was rectified.
Mr and Mrs W say that, due to the delays by Barclays, they lost the property they had set 
their hearts on. They found another property, and their purchase was completed in early 
February 2020.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Barclays. They were, however, unhappy at the way in which 
Barclays dealt with the complaint. In particular, they were frustrated that they couldnt speak 
directly to the complaints department, and were unhappy that the complaint hadnt been 
logged when they first raised it.
Barclays accepted it had given out the incorrect codes and that its customer service could 
have been better. The bank paid £500 compensation for this. Mr and Mrs W said this wasnt 
enough for the stress theyd suffered, and that Christmas had been ruined for them and their 
family.
Mr and Mrs W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened. She was satisfied thered been mistakes made by Barclays, but didnt 
think that Mr and Mrs W had lost out on their first property solely as a result of those errors. 
Overall, the investigator thought the £500 paid by Barclays was fair compensation for the 
mistakes it had made.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said 
the delay by Barclays was more than 60 days, and that they were caused considerable 
distress by having to visit schools in the area they wanted to move to and make applications 
to the council. Mr and Mrs W say that if Barclays had given them the correct codes at the 
outset, they might have been able to buy the first property and avoided all this stress and 
upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that Barclays made a mistake in giving Mr and Mrs W the incorrect codes. 
What I have to decide is what is fair compensation for that mistake. The crux of this 
complaint is that Mr and Mrs W say, due to Barclays errors, they lost the property they 
wanted to buy. 
The banks internal contact notes do not show a delay of more than 60 days, as claimed by 
Mr and Mrs W. The records show a delay between 5 December 2019 and 14 December 
2019, and from 14 December 2019 to 27 December 2019 (which included one weekend and 
two Bank Holidays). 
In order to help me decide whether Barclays is wholly responsible for Mr and Mrs W losing 
their property of choice, I asked the investigator to obtain the mortgage brokers file. The 
broker would have had contact, not only with Mr and Mrs W and Barclays, but solicitors and 
estate agents. The brokers file should reflect the history of the transaction.
However, despite several requests, the file hasnt been provided; all the broker has 
produced is what I am told is an email sent to the bank, but it is undated and has no header 
on it. As such, its evidential value is limited and I am therefore unable to rely on this as proof 
that Barclays was entirely responsible for Mr and Mrs W losing the first property.
In the circumstances, I am unable to conclude that the loss of the property was solely as a 
result of an act or omission by Barclays; there are many reasons why property purchases 
dont go ahead, and in this case the evidence is not persuasive that Barclays was totally at 
fault for the purchase falling through. Given this, although I acknowledge it was a stressful 
period for Mr and Mrs W, Im not persuaded that Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs W the 
£5,000 they are asking for.
Mr and Mrs W have also complained about the way Barclays dealt with their complaint. 
However, we can only consider complaints against Barclays in relation to regulated 
activities. Complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, and so a complaint about this doesnt 
fall within the scope of our rules.
Barclays paid compensation of £500 for the errors it made and for poor customer service. 
Im satisfied this is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the impact the banks mistakes had 
on Mr and Mrs W. As I said above, in the absence of the brokers file, the evidence does not 
persuade me that the loss of the first property was the fault of Barclays.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman