DRN-2094011
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Home and Legacy Insurance Services Limited (H&L) refused to refund 
his premiums after he found that its mistake meant an endorsement was still on his policy.
What happened
Mr B took out buildings and contents insurance via a broker, H&L, using his own broker. The 
complaint is about H&Ls actions, not the underwriter or Mr Bs own broker. So, for clarity, 
where actions were taken by his own broker, Ill simply refer to Mr B. 
Mr Bs home has a thatched roof, and the underwriter placed an endorsement on the policy 
excluding loss or damage caused by fire and smoke. The endorsement would be in place 
until Mr B provided invoices to show his chimney had been swept, which he did via H&L. 
The underwriter revised the endorsement and said it would insure Mr Bs home once it had 
evidence of appropriate qualifications held by the sweeper. Later it agreed to accept 
evidence of the sweepers experience. Mr B provided H&L with the details and assumed his 
home was fully insured from that point on.
When the policy renewal documents were sent almost a year later, Mr B noticed that the 
endorsement was still on the policy. Mr B complained to H&L because hed paid the full 
premium for the previous year on the understanding the endorsement had been removed. 
He asked for a refund of most of the premium.
H&L checked with the underwriter to see whether the policy wouldve paid in the event of a 
claim. The underwriter explained that the endorsement was there because it hadnt received 
evidence of the sweepers experience. However, H&L had received it from Mr B but failed to 
pass the information on. Based on that explanation, the underwriter said it wouldve paid any 
claim made, so it refused to refund the premiums. H&L explained this to Mr B, but he 
remained unhappy that hed paid the full premium for a policy which he couldnt guarantee 
wouldve covered a claim. 
H&L apologised for its mistake and upheld his complaint. It offered Mr B £300 in recognition 
of the shortfall in service and the upset caused. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that H&L had clearly made a 
mistake by not sending the information to the underwriter. But, because the underwriter 
wouldve accepted a claim, he didnt think Mr B had suffered any loss. Our investigator 
thought that H&Ls offer of £300 was fair.
Mr B didnt agree, and he made several comments in response to our investigators view. 
Ultimately, Mr B thought that he wasnt insured for fire and smoke damage because the 
endorsement was still in place. Because of that, he thinks H&L should return his full 
premium.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know Mr B feels strongly about the principle of this matter, Ive decided not to uphold 
his complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that H&L made a mistake by not sending details of the chimney sweeps 
experience to the underwriter. Because of that, the endorsement stayed on the policy. So, I 
must look at whether Mr B has lost out as a result of H&Ls mistake.
The underwriter said it wouldve covered a claim because Mr B had done what was asked of 
him to have the endorsement removed. But he doesnt think thats necessarily the case. 
Thankfully, Mr B didnt need to make a claim so we will never be sure. So, instead, Ive 
looked at whether H&Ls mistake wouldve caused any loss to Mr B if he had made a claim. 
If the underwriter accepted it, as it says it wouldve done, then thered be no loss to Mr B. If 
the underwriter had declined a claim because of the endorsement, then its likely wed have 
held H&L responsible for any costs Mr B incurred because of its mistake. Either way, Mr B 
wouldve been covered for a claim so I cant fairly say he has experienced any loss.
I understand Mr B thinks he has lost out on a years worth of premiums for a policy which he 
thinks wouldve been worthless in the event of a claim. For that reason he would like most of 
the premium refunded. I can understand that Mr Bs frustrated by having paid for a policy 
which he now cant be sure wouldve covered any damage to his home caused by fire or 
smoke. But the policy covered more than just those risks and he wouldve had to pay for the 
policy whether or not he made a successful claim. The underwriter refused to refund the 
premium because it said it wouldve covered a claim, and I have no reason to doubt that. So 
I cant fairly ask H&L to pay Mr B back for any of his premiums because the possibility that a 
claim wouldve been declined is based on what ifs.
Finally, I can see that H&L admitted it made mistakes regarding the endorsement 
information Mr B gave it. H&L says it didnt pass on the information to the insurer to make it 
aware that the endorsement needs no longer apply. I think thats a shortfall in service which 
has caused Mr B upset and inconvenience. H&L offered Mr B £300 and its offer remains 
open for him to accept. I think thats a fair amount in recognition of the shortfall in service. I 
cant see any reason for Mr B to get his premiums back in full because, quite simply, his 
home was insured for the entire duration of the policy term and he has not experienced any 
loss.
In summary, Mr B paid for a policy which still had an endorsement on it because of H&Ls 
failure to pass on information to the underwriter. Mr B didnt make a claim, the underwriter 
said it wouldve covered one anyway, and H&L offered a payment of £300 by way of 
apology. Overall, Im satisfied that H&L made a fair offer of compensation to Mr B as a 
gesture of goodwill for failing to send on his information about the endorsement to H&L. As 
he didnt experience any loss, I think it more than puts him back into the position he wouldve 
been in had the matter not occurred.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman