DRN-2290047
The complaint
Miss K complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) unfairly requested a 
£3,000 excess payment from her in full following a claim under her motor insurance policy.
Miss K also raised concerns about Calpes liability decision related to the claim. This has 
been considered separately by this service.
What happened
In September 2018 Miss K was involved in an accident with a third party. The third partys 
representatives contacted Calpe to make a claim against Miss K. Calpe accepted liability 
and the claim was settled in April 2020.
On 11 May 2020, Calpe sent a letter to Miss K to explain the claim had now been closed, 
highlighting the total sum paid under the claim and requesting payment of the £3,000 policy 
excess within 14 days. 
Miss K said she never received this letter. Calpe has since said it accepts this letter was 
missing Miss Ks flat number on the address. Miss K felt that Calpe had acted unfairly in 
requesting the excess payment in full and without proper notice. Calpe felt it had acted in 
line with the agreed terms and conditions of the policy.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. Although she felt Calpe had acted fairly in applying 
the terms and requesting payment of the excess, she said it hadnt done enough to 
communicate with Miss K about ways she could repay such a large amount. She 
recommended Calpe pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused and asked it to discuss a 
suitable repayment plan with Miss K for the outstanding amount.
Because Calpe didnt respond to our investigator, this case has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss Ks policy is whats known as an all sections excess policy. This means that Miss K is 
required to pay her excess even if she doesnt make a claim for damage to her own car. So, 
for any claim against Miss Ks policy, including a claim from a third party, she is required to 
pay her policy excess.
Miss Ks schedule is a two-page document. On page one, under total excess, it says the 
policy has a £3,000 all sections excess for all drivers. The statement of facts document is a 
three-page document, and on the first page it also described the excess in the same terms 
under a heading of total excess. So Im satisfied Calpe has given Miss K clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the cost of her excess. 
Ive seen details of the third partys costs and its clear these are far in excess of the £3,000, 
so its clear to me Calpe has applied the terms of the policy fairly when asking Miss K to pay 
this excess sum. 
Calpe accepts its letter of 11 May 2020 wasnt fully addressed, and Miss K says she didnt 
receive this letter. On balance in this case, it seems most likely Miss K didnt receive this 
letter. Several weeks after Miss K received a text message which notified her of the 
outstanding debt which said a debt collection agency had been instructed. From this point, 
Im satisfied Miss K was aware she had a debt that she had an obligation to pay. 
In the circumstances, I can see why the message regarding debt collectors without prior 
notice wouldve been surprising to Miss K and caused her distress. Following this there was 
some back and forth between parties. Then in June 2020 Miss K emailed Calpe to explain 
she was unable to make the £3,000 payment in full. 
If Miss K was experiencing financial difficulties at this time, Id have expected Calpe to have 
treated her positively and sympathetically in making repayments. And if it hasnt done so 
already, Id direct it to discuss repayment options with her. Since the complaint has been 
with us, Miss K has raised concerns about the actions of a third-party collection company. 
But this is outside the scope of the decision Ive been asked to consider.
Overall, based on everything Ive seen, I uphold Miss Ks complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
must do the following:
pay Miss K £100 for the trouble and upset caused;
if Calpe still has control over the debt, it must discuss a fair and reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss K if it hasnt done so already. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman