DRN-3565153
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by Covid-19.
Mr L, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. For ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as being from T. 
What happened
T runs a pharmacy and held a business interruption insurance policy with Ageas. T claimed 
on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19. 
Ageas accepted that T had business interruption insurance for loss due to a notifiable 
disease at the premises. But it said that Ts business had been impacted by the 
Governments lockdown, and there was no cover for this under the policy. 
Unhappy with Ageass response, T brought its complaint to our service. T said that it was 
required to stay open to help with the pandemic response. But most of its patients were 
students who had been sent home, which meant T experienced a significant reduction in 
turnover. T understood from Ageass response that its claim would have been paid if it had 
closed its business.
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that 
there was no evidence that Ts business had been impacted by an occurrence of Covid-19 at 
its premises, which was required for a successful claim under the policy. 
T didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. T said that its business was 
substantially affected by Covid-19. T believed it was insured for a downturn in business as 
this pandemic was a business interruption. The policy did not require the business to be 
closed in order to claim. T said that as it was illegal to close the pharmacy it would never 
benefit from business interruption insurance. As such, the policy had potentially been 
mis-sold to it.
Our investigator explained that T would have to raise any mis-sale complaint with the 
insurance broker which had sold the policy to T. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ts business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Ageas has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ts claim.
The most relevant part of Ts policy is an extension covering business interruption loss in 
consequence of:
i any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or 
attributable to food and drink supplied from the Premises 
ii any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Notifiable Disease (as defined below)
The policy defines Notifiable Disease as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:
i food or drink poisoning
ii any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the 
competent Local Authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Covid-19 is a human contagious disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Ts 
claim, the interruption to Ts business would need to be in consequence of the occurrence of 
Covid-19 at Ts premises.
As T is aware, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and 
the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able 
to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers
In this case, T has not suggested that there was a case of Covid-19 at the premises. So, 
I think that Ageas fairly concluded that Ts claim was not covered under the policy terms.
I understand Ts point that its business was interrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. T also 
says that the policy did not require its business to close for it to claim. However, for its 
business interruption claim under the policy to be successful, T would have to show its 
business was impacted by the occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. I am not persuaded 
that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. It follows that I think Ageas fairly 
declined Ts claim. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that T was hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont consider I can fairly require Ageas to pay Ts claim. 
Finally, T has said it was not permitted to close, and as such it questions whether it could 
ever have made a successful claim under the business interruption policy. As our 
investigator has explained, any complaint about the sale of the policy would have to be 
raised as a fresh complaint against the insurance broker. It follows that I have not made any 
findings on Ts concern about a possible mis-sale in this decision against the insurer, Ageas.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman