DRN-3184912
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a
mortgage, in January 2004. Mr C says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to HSBC.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in October 2021 in which I said I wasnt 
minded to uphold it, but that I would look at any further comments or evidence any of the 
parties wanted me to look at. This was mainly because the complaint has taken a long time 
to get to this stage, for which once again, Im sorry. I also thought some things needed 
clarification.
I havent been provided with any new evidence which changes what I said before. So Im 
now issuing a final decision. This should be read in conjunction with the provisional decision 
I issued last month.
what Ive decided  and why
As I said last month, when considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into 
account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs.
Ive carefully reconsidered all the information we have about this complaint.
was Mr C given a choice about PPI?
As I explained before, Ive seen evidence showing the mortgage was closed back in August 
2006. Businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely so my findings are therefore 
based on what is more likely to have happened.
Mr C says he wasnt given any paperwork at all about the PPI and it was never discussed.
However, whilst Im sure that is his genuine recollection now, Ive been shown some
electronic notes which tend to suggest the opposite. These show that PPI, and indeed other
forms of insurance were discussed as part of his mortgage interview with HSBC. Im
afraid I still find it unlikely that if he was sold PPI  and theres no dispute he was  that the
insurers wouldnt have given him a policy schedule and properly set up his policy in the 
usual way.
The evidence from the sale also shows that Mr C would most likely have needed to
authorise the £20.99 cost of the PPI cover to leave his bank account each month. He would
have needed to make this happen by signing a direct debit mandate (or similar). Having
purchased it, he seems to have kept the PPI cover for a while and so I think hed have been
able see he had the policy  it was also offered to him for half-price for the first six months,
so I think all these things show he probably discussed and then agreed to it.
was the PPI suitable?
There is evidence the PPI was recommended to Mr C as part of an advised sale, so this
means HSBC had a duty to make sure the PPI was suitable for him. I think it was.
I say this because this was a mortgage secured against Mr Cs home and so the
consequences of him not being able to make the repayments could have been serious. He
was eligible for the cover and he wasnt caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to
see in these policies. He didnt have many other forms of protection, for example, sick pay
with his job. So, the PPI helping to pay his mortgage for up to 12 months in the event of a
successful claim would have been of use.
I think the policy was suitable and recommending it to him wasnt unreasonable.
It is certainly conceivable the information HSBC gave to Mr C about the PPI had some
shortcomings, but he chose to take it out and the PPI policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for
him. I think hed have known what was covered and how much it was costing each month.
And even if I accept HSBC ought to have explained more, I still think he wanted the PPI 
what he got wasnt much different to what he probably understood he was getting from the
discussion and I havent seen anything about his health or job which would have made
certain claims problematic or excluded altogether.
Mr Cs representative also raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;
and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value and
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the
chances of making a claim. However, the representative has not said how these points apply 
to the specific facts and circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to 
all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont intend to
uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. Nor do I think his case is affected by the rules
around the payment of commission.
This means HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr C.
my final decision
I do not uphold the complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman