DRN-2545695
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander UK Plc wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In January 2020 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander.
Within around two weeks of getting the car, Mr B reported issues including a scratch to the 
front of the car, maintenance warning light illuminated, missing parcel shelf, hole in rear 
headrest and scratches on rear bumper.
Santander arranged for an independent inspection of the car. the report concluded that the 
faults werent developing at the point of supply. Based on the findings in the report, 
Santander rejected Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B wasnt happy with Santanders response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply and said Mr B should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr B didnt agree. He wanted more compensation and said hed incurred costs including 
road fund licence and insurance and that hed suffered a loss of earnings when the car was 
inspected.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reaosbsale person 
would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the 
car and the price paid.
I would expect a  brand new  or nearly new  car to be of a very high standard. I can see 
that  the car supplied to Mr B was an ex demonstrator car with around 5000 miles on the 
clock at the point of supply. So Id expect the car to be of a much higher standard than a 
used car with higher mileage.
Mr B reported issues as soon as he collected the car. Whilst its fair to say that one of the 
issues is cosmetic, the others were mechanical. For instance, the service due light was on.
Ive looked at the inspection report. The engineer found that the service light was illuminated. 
He also found 38 fault codes, with 17 of these requiring further investigation. The engineer 
recorded the mileage of the car at the point of supply as 5 miles and said that because Mr B 
had covered around 5000 miles, the faults were not likely to have been present at the point 
of supply. 
However, I think the engineer made an error with the point of supply mileage. Its very 
unlikely that the car had only covered 5 miles at the point of  supply. Mr Bs recollection is 
that the car had covered just over 5000 miles at the point of supply. Given that Mr B reported 
the issues very shortly after the point of supply, I dont think it would have been possible for 
him to have covered 5000 miles during this time. So I think its more likely that the car was 
supplied with around 5000 miles on the clock. This brings into question the entirety of the 
engineers findings with regard to satisfactory quality. I think its likely that the engineer would 
have concluded that the faults were present ta the point of supply if hed been aware that the 
car had only covered a few miles since the point of supply.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect the service light to be illuminated at or very 
shortly after the point of supply. Nor would a reasonable person expect to find numerous 
fault codes. Based on what Ive seen, Im of the view that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Because Mr B asked to reject the car within the first 30 days, and because Im of the view 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality because of the faults described, I think Mr B should 
be allowed to exercise his immediate right of rejection.   
Putting things right
Mr B has said that he hasnt driven the car since he acquired it because of the service 
warning light. Hes also said that hes had to use another car during this time which he would 
otherwise have sold. And he says hes incurred extra costs because hes had to tax and 
insure two cars.
Ive taken everything Mr B has said about costs and expenses into account. However, I think 
tax and insurance costs are part and parcel of car ownership. I do understand that Mr M has 
been inconvenienced by this, but Im satisfied that the amount of compensation awarded by 
the investigator adequately reflects the impact on Mr M.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander UK Plc must:
Allow Mr B to reject the car
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr B
Refund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund the monthly payments made by Mr  together with 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay £200 for distress and inconvenience
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman