DRN-4384387
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Vacation Finance Limited (VFL) didnt fairly or reasonably deal 
with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
relation to the purchase of a timeshare in May 2018. They also say that the credit agreement 
they entered into with VFL was unaffordable. Mr and Mrs C are represented by a 
professional representative (PR).
What happened
In May 2018 Mr and Mrs C purchased timeshare points from a company I will call A. Prior to 
this they had purchased timeshare products from A in September 2015, September 2016 
and April 2017. This product was a point-based holiday club membership which cost 
£34,286 funded by a loan from VFL for £23,286 with the balance coming from trading in 
existing products.
This decision concerns the May 2018 purchase although Mr and Mrs C have made 
reference to the sales process for the previous purchases. They have said that on each 
occasion they took holidays they were pressurised to make additional purchases. In May 
2018 they say they were told A was making changes and they would not be able to sell back 
their existing timeshare(s) and they would have to convert to a points based membership..
They say they were told that the points would increase in value, but that turned out to be 
wrong. They also say that they were not told that the points would be lost if they werent 
used. Mr and Mrs C say they were reliant on benefit income and didnt want to take on such 
a large financial commitment.
PR submitted a claim to VFL in June 2021 under s.75 and s.140A Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA). It said Mr and Mrs C had been subjected to pressure and the product had 
been misrepresented. They had not been able to sell it. It added that they had not been told 
about commission payments made by VFL and no affordability checks had been carried out. 
PR said A had contravened the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010, SI 2010/2960 and had acted in a manner which went against 
the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT) 2008.
VFL rejected the claim and said they had not been given evidence to support the claims. 
VFL pointed out that Mr and Mrs C had a 14 day cooling off period which they had not used 
so even if they had been unable to understand the documentation at the time of sale they 
could have satisfied themselves subsequently.
It said the requisite affordability checks were carried out and there was no evidence of 
pressure. Furthermore Mr and Mrs C had made several purchases from A before and would 
have had some awareness of what they were buying. It explained that although A had gone 
into liquidation the timeshare club was being operated by another company so there was no 
breach of contract.
PR brought a complaint on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf to this service. It was considered by one of 
our investigators who recommended it be upheld. She considered they had been misled and 
had only made the purchase on the basis that it could be resold. However, she believed this 
facility was not made available before A went into liquidation. She also said it was known 
that the ability to sell timeshare at a profit was very rare.
However, she concluded that the s.75 claim fell outside the monetary limits and she thought 
VFL was right to reject it. She considered the s.140A claim and decided it succeeded 
because the product had been misrepresented and this had created an inequality of 
knowledge. She also expressed concern about the level of borrowing, but said that given 
she was minded to uphold the complaint she need not reach a conclusion on this point. VFL 
didnt agree and submitted a copy of its final response letter.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr and Mrs C) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (VFL) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
As our investigator has pointed out that s.75 only covers purchases up to £30,000 in value 
and the cost of the timeshare points exceeds that. However s.75A covers purchases up to
£60,260 in value where the supplier has become insolvent. However, it only applies to 
claims for breach of contract. It does not cover misrepresentation.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to enter into the contract.
The claim made by Mr and Mrs C is that that they were told they could sell the points and 
effectively sell their timeshare. I have read the Statement of Compliance signed by Mr and 
Mrs C in April 2017 which states: The primary purpose of our membership is to access 
holiday accommodation and is not a financial investment for a return.
I have not been given a copy of the 2018 documentation, but it is reasonable to presume 
that it will have included a similar caveat. That would suggest it was made fairly clear in the 
paperwork which they had 14 days to read in the cooling off period. I say that while 
recognising Mr and Mrs Cs testimony which says that they were told about the resale 
opportunities.
The difficulty I have is that I wasnt present at the sale and the testimony is not supported by 
documentary evidence. Furthermore, I have not been given any information or evidence 
showing that Mr and Mrs C attempted to sell the timeshare or had any intentions of selling it 
rather than using it for holidays. I also note that they made use of the accommodation for 
holidays which demonstrates the timeshare wasnt purchased solely as a financial 
investment. Overall I cannot safely conclude that they were told that the product was a 
financial investment or that A guaranteed it could be re-sold.
S.140A CCA
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr and Mrs C and 
VFL were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if 
it applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs C could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against VFL anyway.
Mr and Mrs Cs alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to them personally, which 
must mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
PR seems to suggest that VFL owed Mr and Mrs C a duty of care to ensure that A complied 
with the 2010 Regulations. And PR says that VFL breached that duty by failing to carry out  
before granting Mr and Mrs C credit and paying A  the due diligence necessary to ensure 
that the product purchased by Mr and Mrs C wasnt sold by A in breach of the 2010 
Regulations.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that VFL assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
Even if it had assumed that responsibility I am not persuaded there was an unfair 
relationship as required by s.140A.PR makes much of the alleged breach of Regulations. However, its the substance of the 
regulatory breach  and the impact on the consumer  that matters more than the breach 
itself. So, even if the provision of information by A fell short in some way, that doesnt 
automatically lead to an uphold on the basis that the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair.
And the fact that the purchase agreement may have been unenforceable (which is different 
to voidable) under Regulation 15 of the 2010 Timeshare Regulations (in light of a breach of 
Regulation 12) is, in my view, unlikely to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair 
because I cant see why the unenforceability of the purchase agreement against the 
consumer would be to their disadvantage. To the extent that the contract is advantageous to 
the consumer and they want to continue with it, nothing changes even if the relevant section 
of Regulation 15 bites. It is only in the circumstance that the supplier takes enforcement 
steps against the consumer that the unenforceability becomes relevant, in which case it 
provides a helpful protection and advantage to the consumer.
Looking at other points raised by PR I note there is very little detail about the nature of the 
alleged pressure, but I think it most unlikely that Mr and Mrs C would have signed a £34,000 
contract under pressure but not taken advantage of the cooling-off period. At the very least, I 
would expect them to seek to explain why, if they had felt under pressure at the time, they 
did not review things when they were no longer subject to that pressure.
PR says that Mr and Mrs C were not provided with details of any commission paid to VFL. 
They do not suggest that they asked about commission, but I have no reason to think they 
would not have been told what it was if they had done. VFL would have been under a duty to 
provide that information. However, I gather VFLs arrangements with A did not include the 
payment of commission.
Affordability and suitability checks
It has been suggested that VFL did not carry out any checks to ensure that the loan was 
affordable and appropriate to Mr and Mrs Cs needs. It also said that they had not been 
given any choice about the lender they used and the sum borrowed was too great a 
commitment given their circumstances.
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. VFL said that it did carry out appropriate checks, 
although there are few details of what that involved. I have asked VFL for further information 
on the checks it did carry out but it failed to respond
I note however that, Mr and Mrs C have not suggested they have had difficulty making 
payments, and they do not appear to have approached VFL seeking any kind of 
accommodation  for example, a payment break or payment plan. I have been given a 
statement which shows regular payments were made from May 2018 to February 2020. I 
have not been told that any subsequent payments have been missed.
The fact that a borrower is able to make repayments is not, of itself, evidence that payments 
are affordable, still less that the lender made proper checks before agreeing to lend. It might 
indicate however that, even if proper checks had been carried out, the lending decision  
and therefore the overall position  might well have been no different. If PR is able to 
evidence that the loan was unaffordable I will review my current view.
Conclusion
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C are dissatisfied with their purchase and they have my sympathies 
for this, but, in summary I cannot see why any of their claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I think that VFL acted reasonably in declining the claims under s.75 and s. 140A 
CCA.
PR did not agree. In summary, it argued that:
My provisional decision did not take into account that the product had been 
consistently marketed as an investment.
The points sold by A were similar to those marketed by another company and a 
decision upholding a complaint issued by a colleague had been upheld in a judicial 
review hearing.
Mr and Mrs C would not have traded their existing products had they not been 
persuaded that they had a profit making capability. The fact they made use of the 
points for holidays should not lead to the conclusion the product was not purchased 
as an investment. 
The claim under s.140A was not undermined by Mr and Mrs C signing an agreement 
which stated the primary purpose of their membership was to access holiday 
accommodation. PR said the recent judicial review (JR) case supported that 
conclusion.
PR did not accept my argument that as Mr and Mrs Cs loss was financial and VFL 
did not have a duty of care to ensure A complied with the 2010 Regulations and 
quoted from the JR case.
PR said that if there was a breach of Regulation 14 then it was irrelevant what impact 
that might have. 
On the matter of affordability it expressed concern that VFL had not supplied this 
service with information. It added that both Mr and Mrs C were retired when they took 
out the loan and Mr C suffered from ill health which was made known to VFLs agent. 
They have not made any payments for over two years.
PR summarised the complaint again and said that if As actions didnt amount to 
misrepresentation it had been guilty of misleading actions and so fell foul of Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008.  It said that the representative may not 
have been factually inaccurate, but they presented the product in a way that deceived. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I would like to address what PR has said about the findings of the High Court 
following the recent judicial review of the Financial Ombudsman Service and the approach 
PR thinks it should take to this complaint, which in simple terms is that I should take an 
identical approach.
The High Court did affirm that my fellow ombudsmans findings on s.56 CCA and the extent 
to which it creates a statutory agency relationship between a creditor and a supplier when 
there is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place  such that any negotiations between 
Mr and Mrs C and A before their purchase are deemed to have been conducted by A as an 
agent of BPF. PR argued this complaint should be treated in the same way, but I do not 
agree.The complaints at the centre of the judicial review were concerned with a particular type of 
asset backed timeshare known as a fractional ownership timeshare. Such timeshares 
offered prospective members the same sort of holiday rights commonly associated with 
timeshares more generally. But they also offered prospective members a share in the 
ownership of a specific property. They didnt usually confer any rights to stay in that 
property. But under the terms of the purchase agreement the property is usually set to be 
sold at the end of the membership period and the net proceeds distributed on a pro rata 
basis among the fractional owners.
However, that is not the type of timeshare Mr and Mrs C bought and I do not consider that it 
follows that the same decision should be reached in this complaint as in those addressed by 
the judicial review.
While fractional and non-fractional timeshares may have been sold in a similar way, the fact 
that the non-fractional timeshares werent designed with an investment element front and 
centre is an important distinction to consider when determining what a fair and reasonable 
outcome to a complaint might look like.
I accept that some non-fractional timeshares may share a number of contractual terms that 
were subject of the judicial review and may fall foul of the relevant law on unfair contract 
terms. However, an assessment of unfairness under s.140A CCA does not necessarily stop 
at a regulatory breach. Its often necessary to then assess the impact of that breach on the 
consumer. That much is clear from case law and  including the latest judicial review.
In other words, complaints must be decided on their individual merits which is what I will do 
in this case.
I have noted PRs assertion that the product was marketed as an investment. Even if I 
accepted that, it does not show that it was marketed as a financial investment. Mr and Mrs C 
provided testimony and said they were told that the points would increase in value due to 
potential increased demand. However, as I explained in my provisional decision I have not 
seen the papers relating to the purchase, but I noted those for the 2017 purchase which 
made it clear that the product was not an investment. It is difficult for me to conclude that the 
claim should succeed in the absence of supporting evidence which show that the product 
was sold as an investment. 
I gather Mr and Mrs C used the product to access accommodation and this supports the 
view that it was purchased for that purpose. They could have believed that the product may 
also have some value as an asset, but that does not demonstrate that it was sold as an 
investment. The sales representatives will have put the best possible gloss on the product 
they were selling, but that of itself does not allow me to conclude it was misrepresentation.
Nor am I persuaded that VFL had a duty of care to ensure A complied with the regulations. 
One has to consider the substance of the alleged breach, not just whether there was one.
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have regard to all 
matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor (VFL) and matters
relating to the debtor (Mr and Mrs C).
Mr and Mrs C had already held existing timeshare products they had purchased previously 
from A.
Importantly; the new purchase appears to relate to an upgrade and/or change from their 
existing timeshare product holding at the time. It doesnt appear it was their first product purchase from A and Mr and Mrs C werent new customers. So, its likely they wouldve 
benefitted from their previous experience and what might be expected from the meeting and 
sales presentation in 2018.
Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might have 
led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to be taken 
within the context of Mr and Mrs Cs overall experience. And even if I was to find that some 
of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such finding  I 
think its unlikely this would lead to a court finding this led to a sufficiently extreme imbalance 
in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
A wasnt acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs C, but as the supplier of contractual rights they 
obtained under the timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based upon 
what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was As role to make an impartial or disinterested 
recommendation, or to give Mr and Mrs C advice or information on that basis. As far as Im 
aware, Mr and Mrs C were always at liberty to choose how they wanted to fund the 
transaction.
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest VFL wouldve been under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is there any 
suggestion or evidence that Mr and Mrs C requested those details from VFL or A. As it 
happens VFL has said that none was paid.
I would add that the claim under sections 140A and 140B was referred to VFL within the time 
limit set out in the Limitation Act  which is six years from the end of the loan relationship. 
Nevertheless, I think it is relevant to the merits of allegations of unfairness that Mr and Mrs C 
did not suggest that they thought they had been or were being treated unfairly until nearly 
three years later.
On the matter of affordability I agree that it is disappointing that VFL has not responded. I 
have to consider if the loan was unaffordable at the time it was made. I have noted that Mr 
and Mrs C were able to make the payments for several years. PR says that they have not 
made any payments for over two years, but it has not said this was due to affordability 
issues. Nor did the letter of claim mention that Mr and Mrs C were unable to repay the loan. 
It simply asserted that no affordability checks were carried out. 
I am satisfied that some checks were carried out and that I have not been give evidence that 
it was unaffordable and so I do not consider I can uphold this element of the complaint. 
Overall, I cannot safely conclude that the product was misrepresented or that there is 
evidence of unfair commercial practice simply because the sales representative may have 
expressed an opinion which PR thinks may have been inaccurate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman