DRN-3226726
Complaint
Miss P is unhappy with what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has done to put things 
right in relation to her complaint about her overdraft charges.
Background
Miss P also complained about the sale of a packaged bank account. But weve looked at that 
complaint separately. And this decision is only looking at Miss Ps concerns about her 
overdraft.
When the complaint was referred to us RBS agreed to refund all the interest, fees and 
charges it added to Miss Ps account from the end of December onwards. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Miss Ps concerns and thought that what RBS had agreed to do to 
put things right was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. Miss P disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what RBS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss P is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
RBS has agreed that it ought to have realised that Miss Ps account was in difficulty and that 
it shouldnt have added any interest, fees and charges to Miss Ps account from late 
December 2019 onwards. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges 
added it to Miss Ps account from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what RBS has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Miss P has been left with an outstanding balance even though the credits shes 
made to her account have been factored in and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees 
and charges applied from late December 2019. So while Miss P has been left with an 
outstanding balance to repay and she might be unhappy with this, RBS has done what Id 
normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss P believes that RBS should do more. As I understand it, shes thinks that RBS ought to 
have taken action earlier and it should have made more of an effort to contact her. Ive 
carefully thought about what Miss P has said. But Miss P had been using her account for 
most of 2019. And she was crediting her account with transfers from her savings account 
too. So there was no indication that Miss P had abandoned the account. And while Miss P 
was using her overdraft  mostly as a result of purchases  and was crediting the account 
with funds after doing so, I think that it would have been unfair for RBS to have taken 
corrective action in relation to Miss Ps overdraft in 2019. 
I now turn to Miss Ps comments regarding communications from RBS. It isnt in dispute that 
RBS attempted to send Miss P a number of notifications about her account throughout 2019 
and 2020. However, these communications were sent to an address Miss P had left 
sometime previously as shed moved abroad. Miss P says she notified RBS she moved. And 
given the content of her packaged account complaint in 2018, I think she did tell RBS she 
wasnt in the UK. 
However, while Miss P might have told RBS she wasnt in the UK she never notified RBS of 
her change of address. So RBS couldnt have updated Miss Ps correspondence details or 
sent letters elsewhere. As RBS sent all notifications to the address it held for Miss P (and 
Miss P never told her to stop sending correspondence there) Im satisfied it took reasonable 
steps to notify her that her account was in difficulty and incurring charges. Furthermore,  
Miss P would have seen that she was being charged while she was logging in to make 
online transfers. 
I also know that Miss P is unhappy these communications were sent to her by post. But 
while certain documents such as statement alerts can be sent be email, it is good practice 
for firms to send formal correspondence by post. And by mid-2020, it was clear Miss Ps 
account situation hadnt improved and I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or 
proportionate for RBS to continue ignoring Miss Ps obvious and apparent difficulty, or the 
fact that the overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her, indefinitely. So by 
this stage, I would have expected RBS to have taken corrective action in the way that it did.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. RBS acknowledges it should have stopped adding interest 
before the overdraft was removed and has now adjusted the outstanding balance to reflect 
this. Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for RBS to begin the 
process of taking corrective action in relation to Miss Ps overdraft when it did. As this is the 
case and Miss P didnt or wasnt able to take steps to repay what was owed, Im satisfied 
that RBS was entitled to withdraw Miss Ps overdraft when it did. 
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Miss Ps strength of feeling 
on this matter, I dont think that what RBS has already done to put things right for her is fair 
and reasonable and it hasnt treated her unfairly in relation to her overdraft. And so I dont 
think that RBS needs to do anything further. I realise that this will be very disappointing for          
Miss P. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that 
her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Miss P is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of her complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman