DRN-2630826
The complaint
Mr B says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream lent to him irresponsibly. He says that 
he was having significant financial problems when it lent to him. It should have found out 
about these problems and not lent to him. Mr B also says Lending Stream has been 
recording one of the loans twice on his credit report. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr B in late 2017. 
Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in a table below. 
loandate 
startedamountmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 08/09/2017 £90.00 6 27/10/2017
2 26/11/2017 £350.00 6 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the checks Lending Stream did 
were proportionate and so it was reasonable to approve the loans. He also said it was likely 
one of the loans appeared twice on Mr Bs credit file due to how it was reported by the credit 
reference agency. 
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He still thought that Lending Stream shouldnt 
have approved any lending. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
For loan 1 Mr B needed to repay via six instalments, the highest of which was £38. Mr B 
borrowed a greater amount for loan 2, and so the highest repayment increased to £151. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr B provided when he completed his loan applications. 
Mr B said he had a monthly income of £2,000 for loan 1, this fell to £1,850 for loan 2. Mr Bs 
recorded expenditure was £1,124 for loan 1 and £761 for loan 2. So, its reasonable to say 
the loans would have seemed affordable to Lending Stream.  
The crux of Mr Bs objection to the lending is that he feels Lending Stream should have 
made more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen he was in financial difficulty. 
But given the amounts borrowed against his income, and that that it was early in the lending 
relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Lending Stream should have looked into his 
finances in more detail. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely that Lending Stream was made 
aware of any financial problems that Mr B might have been having. Or anything that 
wouldve prompted it to investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable 
for Lending Stream to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Lending Stream did for these 
loans were proportionate. And I think its decisions to lend for loans 1 and 3 were reasonable 
and Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about them. 
Looking at the complaint correspondence it seems to have been determined that Lending 
Stream is reporting these loans correctly. Mr B hasnt raised any issues with our 
adjudicators investigation about this and I agree this seems likely to be the case. I wont 
comment on this issue further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman