DRN-4226600
The complaint
Mr D complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) and service they provided after 
he made a claim on his HomeCare insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D held a HomeCare insurance policy, underwritten by BGI. This policy was designed to 
assist Mr D both practically and financially where emergency situations arose in his home. 
Unfortunately, in early March 2023, Mr D noticed a leak coming from under the sink in his 
bathroom. So, he contacted BGI to make a claim.
BGI instructed a contractor, who Ill refer to as X, to attend Mr Ds home and repair the 
leak. As X was acting on behalf of BGI, BGI remain ultimately responsible for their actions. X 
attended Mr Ds property on 3 March and attempted a repair, without making access through 
the tiled area directly behind Mr Ds sink. But when Mr D came to use his sink after this 
repair, his neighbour below made him aware that water was running onto their ceiling. So, 
Mr D contacted BGI, asking them to send another engineer to resolve the issue.
X re-attended Mr Ds property the same day. And to fix the leak, they needed to make 
access behind Mr Ds sink, which meant a hole needed to be made through Mr Ds tiles. X 
made access and repaired the leak. BGI also then worked with Mr D and his neighbour to 
repair any damage to his neighbours ceiling, and to plasterboard the hole behind Mr Ds 
sink. 
But Mr D wanted BGI to replace the tiles which had been removed to make access. And BGI 
refused this request, citing their obligations under the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr 
D was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr D thought BGI were unfair not to arrange for, or cover the cost of, the replacement of the 
tiles behind his sink. Mr D felt the tiles were damaged due to Xs first failed repair, and that if 
X had repaired the leak correctly the first time, the tiles would still remain in place. So, he 
wanted BGI to refund him the cost of the replacement tiles, plus compensation for the upset 
hed been caused.
BGI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They accepted Xs first repair attempt 
was unsuccessful. But they explained it was unsuccessful as X had tried to make a repair 
without making access, as they are advised to do by BGI to prevent unnecessary damage to 
a customers home. So, BGI thought making access through the tiles was always necessary 
to complete a full repair of the original leak. And they explained any work to repair tiles, and 
the cost of this, is excluded under the terms of the policy. So, BGI thought they had acted 
fairly when not agreeing to cover the costs of this. Mr D remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied BGI 
needed to make access through Mr Ds tile to repair the original leak, rather than solely 
because of a mistake made on Xs first attendance. And they were satisfied any work to 
replace or restore original surfaces, such as tiles, was excluded under the terms of the 
policy. So, they didnt think BGI should do anything more on this occasion.
Mr D didnt agree. He maintained his belief that, on their first attendance, X caused a leak 
that needed to be repaired by making access through the tiles on their second attendance. 
So, he maintained his belief that BGI should arrange for the tiles to be replaced or cover the 
costs hed incur arranging this himself. As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr D. I appreciate Mr D took 
out the policy with BGI on the understanding it was in place to help assist him both 
practically and financially in a situation such as the one he found himself in. So, when Mr D 
was left in a position where he was expected to incur costs himself to place his bathroom 
back in the state it was in before he identified the leak, I can understand why hed question 
the actions of BGI and their contractor, X. I can also understand how these concerns 
wouldve been multiplied considering the fact X was unable to complete a full repair on their 
first visit, and that damage was caused to his neighbours property below between the first 
and second repairs. So, I do understand why Mr D would look at the events that took place 
and conclude that Xs first repair caused a second leak, and that it was this leak that needed 
access to be made through his tiles. And because of this, I can appreciate why Mr D 
believes BGI should replace the tiles or cover the costs of this to allow Mr D to arrange this 
repair work himself.
But for me to say BGI should arrange for the replacement of the tiles, or pay Mr D to do this 
himself, I first need to be satisfied BGI have done something wrong. So, in this situation, I 
need to be satisfied BGI acted outside of the terms and conditions when refusing to do so. 
Or, if I think BGI did act within these, I need to be satisfied that BGI acted unfairly in some 
other way. In this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think its important for me to explain exactly 
how Ive considered the complaint. I wasnt present at the time X completed the first and 
second repairs. So, Im unable to say for certain what did happen, or what was discussed. 
So, in situations such as these, Ive had to consider the evidence and information available 
to me and decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the balance of 
probabilities.
In this situation, neither Mr D nor BGI dispute that the first repair X attempted wasnt 
successful. What is in dispute is whether the first repair created a new leak, that meant 
access was required through Mr Ds tiles.
Mr D thinks Xs first repair did create a new leak. And that, had X completed the first repair 
correctly, access wouldnt needed to have been made. But BGI dispute this, and they feel 
access would always have needed to have been made. So, Ive thought about what I think is 
most likely. And to do so, Ive relied on Xs notes from each attendance, plus Xs comments 
to BGI as shown in BGIs system notes alongside Mr Ds testimony.From these, I can see X initially replaced the waste pipe and installed a new bottle trap 
under the basin. And that X completed this without making access, to minimise damage to 
Mr Ds home as per the instructions given to them by BGI.
I can see that on the second attendance, X were satisfied a new waste pipe and bottle trap 
were needed. But unfortunately, the new waste pipe couldnt be successfully connected and 
made watertight with the concealed soil vent pipe behind the tiled wall, without access being 
made. So, at this point, access was made to ensure the new waste pipe was fitted and made 
watertight.
After this work was done, the leak was rectified. So, Im satisfied, on the balance of 
probability, that the initial leak Mr D claimed for was most likely due to the original waste 
pipe. And, that this would always have needed to have been replaced.
Due to this, and the fact the waste pipe needed to be connected fully and correctly to a pipe 
behind the wall, I think access would most likely have always been needed to be made 
through the tiles. So, I think its most likely that, had X completed the repair correctly on the 
first visit, Mr Ds tiles would still have been damaged as access would always have needed 
to have been made. So, I dont think I can say for certain that Xs actions meant access was 
needed when it couldve been avoided.
And Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy explain within the Making repairs 
section under the heading Getting access and making good that BGI wont be responsible 
for repairing any pre-existing damage, nor will we replace or restore the original surface for 
coverings, for example, tiles, floors covering, decoration, grass or plants.
I think these terms and conditions make it reasonably clear that, where access is needed, 
BGI wont replace or restore tiles. And because of this, I dont think I can say BGI have acted 
outside of the terms of the policy when refusing to do so for Mr D.
Thats not to say I dont recognise the inconvenience Mr D wouldve been caused by X 
failing to repair the leak correctly on their first attendance. But I think BGI have adequately 
addressed this by attending the same day, when Mr D made them aware a leak was 
impacting his neighbours property. And Im satisfied BGI have addressed the impact of this, 
by rectifying the damage to his neighbours property and installing plasterboard around the 
hole created in his bathroom, so Mr D is able to retile the area, should he still wish to do so. 
Considering the terms and conditions of the policy Mr D held, and BGIs responsibilities 
regarding this and the actions of X, this is all I think I can fairly expect BGI to do. And so, I 
dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. And I recognise Mr D has 
suggested BGI shouldve arranged for an independent engineer to assess the work carried 
out by X. But I dont think this wouldve provided any new information, as the repair has 
already been completed and so, any independent assessment wouldnt be able to say for 
certain what did happen between the first and second repairs. So, this hasnt altered the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some closure for Mr D on the 
situation and allows him the chance to decide how he wishes to proceed regarding the 
condition of his bathroom.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about British Gas Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman