DRN-2002986
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions, which he says 
he didnt make.
What happened
Mr B returned from a business trip abroad to find multiple transactions on his account. He 
said he didnt recognise them and called Barclays to ask for a refund. He told the bank he 
thought his card had been duplicated. He also said it had been stolen. And he said the 
transactions occurred when he was back in the UK, so he couldnt have made them.
Barclays investigated his complaint and decided not to refund him. It said the disputed 
transactions were authenticated by chip and PIN but there was no evidence of how a third 
party knew his PIN. Also, it said his card was used to make three payments which hed 
admitted making - one at the airport, on his way back to the UK, and two in the UK. This 
meant he still had his card with him, contrary to what hed told it.
As Mr B didnt agree with Barclays decision, he asked this service to investigate. 
He told this service that hed been out having dinner with a colleague on the evening of
14 May 2019 when his wallet was stolen. He flew back to the UK on 15 May 2019. He 
admitted making the transactions at the airport and in the UK but said hed used Google 
Pay, because his card had been stolen. He said hed reported his stolen card to the police in 
the UK who advised him to contact the embassy for the country hed visited.
An investigator looked into his case, but she didnt uphold it. In summary, she felt unable to 
conclude that the payments had been made fraudulently and was persuaded they were most 
likely made and authorised by Mr B. She said Barclays had provided evidence showing that 
the payment in the airport was made with Mr Bs card and PIN. This proved he still had his 
card with him and that it wasnt lost. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. He 
now says hes only disputing a set of payments made to one merchant. And he said the 
payment made at the airport is irrelevant, as it doesnt prove he authorised the disputed 
payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote two views. The first one sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr B and Barclays have read the investigators 
views, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr B that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator in her second view and for broadly the same reasons.
In short, Barclays is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017).  But the bank can hold Mr B liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
As Mr B says he didnt make the disputed payments, my primary concern is to come to a 
view about whether or not I think he authorised the disputed payments.
There were ten disputed transactions when Mr B first raised his complaint with Barclays. The 
first four were payments to the same merchant. However, these transactions were declined, 
and the money was returned to Mr Bs account. Mr B is no longer disputing these 
transactions. Hes now disputing six payments made to another merchant, which appears to 
be a restaurant/bar. I note that the visa records also classified the first merchant as a 
restaurant/bar. 
The banks technical evidence shows that the chip in Mr Bs card was read by the card 
machine. The report also shows that the PIN was entered. As the actual chip was read, I 
dont think its likely that a duplicate or cloned card was used. Its not possible to clone the 
chip in a card easily, if at all, and this service hasnt yet seen a case where the chip was 
cloned.
Based on the technical report, Im satisfied that Mr Bs genuine card was used to make the 
disputed payments. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr B authorised the payments, or 
whether a third party made them.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr B 
authorised the disputed payments. This is because:
The technical report for the airport transaction shows the payment was authenticated 
by chip and PIN, which means he used his card. Mr B admitted he made this 
payment. So, he still had his debit card with him. It wasnt stolen, despite what he told 
Barclays and this service.
If Mr B didnt make the disputed payments, then someone else must have taken his 
card and returned it to him without him noticing. But this wasnt Mr Bs evidence. He 
said, simply, that his wallet was stolen. Its also unusual for a fraudster to return a 
stolen card as the risk of being caught is high.
Even if the opportunity arose for someone to steal his card, theres no explanation for 
how they knew the PIN. The bank statements show that he didnt use his debit card 
abroad for any genuine transactions, other than to top up his Revolut card. So, it 
seems there was no opportunity for someone to observe him using his PIN. And Mr B 
hasnt said that he shared his PIN with another person.Its possible that when Mr B first discovered the disputed transactions, he didnt recognise 
the merchants names. They might have been trading under another name locally. It appears 
both were restaurants and or bars. Mr B admitted he went out for dinner with a colleague so 
its plausible he visited one of these establishments, if not both. Also, I think Mr B might have 
been misled about the timings, as there is sometimes a delay between when a payment is 
made and when it is processed. The technical reports show the disputed payments were 
made on 15 May 2019 at around 12am. They were processed on 17 May 2019.
Ive noted Barclays was mistaken about the two payments, which were made in the UK, and 
it has confirmed these werent made with Mr Bs debit card. However, Im afraid I dont think 
this error is relevant to the question of whether or not Mr B authorised the disputed 
payments.
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr B authorised the disputed 
payments. It follows that Barclays is entitled to hold him liable for them.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr B, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman