DRN-3512844
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt credit her account with a cash deposit 
she made.
What happened
Mrs F says in late July, early August 2021, she went into branch to deposit £10,000 using 
the teller services at the counter. Towards the end of August, she received a text informing 
her that the account had gone into the arranged overdraft. Confused by this, she contacted 
Lloyds who told her they had no record of a £10,000 deposit being made recently. 
The bank investigated further and but didnt uphold the complaint. It said there was no 
record of Mrs F depositing the money and that the tills had balanced during that period. It 
thought Mrs F may have been getting confused with a previous similar transaction in March 
2021. 
Mrs F remained unhappy so brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators reviewed 
the complaint but didnt think that Lloyds had done anything wrong. As Mrs F remains 
unhappy, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
I understand how strongly Mrs F feels about this complaint. She has raised a number of
points and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything she
has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No
discourtesy is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think it is unreasonable for Lloyds to come to the conclusions it 
has, I say this because:
Mrs F told Lloyds the name of the cashier that dealt with the disputed transaction. 
However, Lloyds have said that cashier wasnt working on the tills during the last 
week of July or the first week of August 2021, which is when Mrs F said the 
transaction took place. 
Mrs F said she had to enter her card and PIN into the terminal to make the 
transaction. She also said that she was given a receipt, which she has subsequently 
misplaced. Lloyds have informed us that the system would automatically record this, 
which I think is probable.
Lloyds have shown us all transactions made in branch during the period in question. 
From what Ive seen, there arent any deposits that havent been accounted for. They 
also confirmed that the money was not deposited into suspense.
Mrs F hasnt been able to provide a clear source of the funds and as a deposit of 
6,000 was made a few months earlier, its unclear as to where the funds would have 
originated from.
Mrs F mentioned in her testimony that the cashier had informed her that they were 
closing early due to Covid restrictions. However, Lloyds have sent us evidence that 
during July and August they closed at 5pm having reverted back to its usual opening 
times following Covid restrictions. 
Much of the information provided by Mrs F, regarding this complaint, is similar to the 
facts of the transaction that she made in March 2021. The cashier that served her on 
that occasion was the one she had suggested served her in July / August 2021 and 
the opening times in March 2021 were restricted due to Covid. While I cant be 
certain she is confusing the two occasions, it looks possible.
Mrs F has very strong views about what happened and there is a considerable amount at 
stake for her. And so, I know Im going to disappoint her when I say, I dont consider the 
most likely explanation here is that Lloyds has made a mistake. As a result, I wont be asking 
Lloyds to do anything more.
If she doesnt accept my decision, she is free to pursue this further in court or with the 
relevant authorities, subject to any time limits.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman