DRN-4389453
The complaint
Mr D complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase blocked his account. He 
would like the block lifted and an explanation as well as £400 compensation.
What happened
Mr D had an account with Chase. On 17 July 2023 Chase blocked his account. The balance 
in his account was around £400.
Mr D has said that this was his main account and having no access to his money made it 
very difficult  he had to borrow money for his day to day living expenses.
Chase said they were entitled to review his account and block it Chase said they didnt 
need to give Mr D a reason for reviewing his account.
Mr D complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She 
thought Chase were entitled to review the account. She thought there had been delays in the 
review, so she awarded compensation of £100 for the distress and said Chase should 
release the funds promptly and pay 8% interest on the balance in the account because she 
couldnt be sure the review hadnt been delayed.
Mr D agreed with the view.
Chase disagreed they said their review was still ongoing and they were entitled to block the 
account pending the review. They said they were within their SLAs.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ds account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Chase were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ds account and blocked it. 
I can see that in blocking the account the bank were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Chase was unfair. Im satisfied that Chase were entitled to 
carry out a review and block the account to do so.
Having said that, from the information I have before me Im not satisfied that Chase are 
carrying out their review of Mr Ds account in a timely manner. I appreciate that there is no 
set time for the carrying out of a review, however the review has to be an active review in 
order to ensure that no unnecessary delays are taking place. This is because having an 
account blocked will cause inconvenience to a customer so its important that the review is 
carried out without delay. Unfortunately, Chase havent provided this service with sufficient 
information for me to conclude that Chase is acting fairly here.
Reasons
Mr D has said he wants to know the reasons why Chase blocked his accounts. Whilst Mr D 
mayve expected to be given the reasons for the account block. Chase isnt required to give 
him a specific reason. And I can understand Mr Ds frustration that he hasnt been provided 
a detailed explanation. But as the investigator has explained, Chase is under no obligation to 
provide this information to him, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say Chase have 
done anything wrong by not giving Mr D this information. 
Compensation
Mr D has said that he has suffered losses as a result of the block. Mr D has said he would 
like £400 compensation. I appreciate Mr D has had a difficult time because of the account 
block. He has had to borrow money from friends and family. I know Mr D made many calls to 
Chase to see what was happening to his account review. However, Mr D hasnt provided 
any evidence of particular losses, so Im satisfied that £100 awarded by the investigator is 
fair compensation for the inconvenience he was caused.
I am awarding 8% interest on the balance in the account from the date of the block. Again, 
this is because due to Chase not providing this service with sufficient evidence, I cant be 
satisfied that Chase has acted fairly in the time it has taken to review the account and Mr D 
has been deprived of his funds during this time. Therefore, I think he should be 
compensated for being deprived of his funds, and I think 8% is fair compensation for that 
loss. 
Putting things right
To put things right Chase should pay Mr D £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr D. 
They should also release his funds when the review is complete and pay Mr D 8% simple 
interest calculated per annum on Mr Ds account balances from when the account was 
blocked until its removal.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold this complaint. I require J.P. Morgan Europe 
Limited trading as Chase to pay Mr D:
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Release his funds once the review is complete and pay 8% simple interest per 
annum calculated on Mr Ds balances from when the account was blocked until the 
block is lifted. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman