DRN-3173160
The complaint
Mr P has raised a number of complaints about his commercial banking with Lloyds Bank 
PLC. This complaint relates to a commercial mortgage Lloyds held over Mr Ps business 
premises. Mr P is also unhappy that Lloyds mis-handled a payment holiday.
What happened
Mr P, a sole trader, had a commercial mortgage with Lloyds secured on his business 
premises. The loan was taken out many years ago and neither Mr P nor Lloyds has a copy 
of the original loan agreement. However, as this was a commercial loan, it is likely this was 
an all monies charge, securing not just the original loan amount, but all other indebtedness 
Mr P might have to Lloyds during the course of his business relationship.
This type of charge is the industry standard for commercial borrowing, and has been for 
many years. It enables the lender to continue to offer facilities without the need for the 
borrower to have to go through the formality of granting a new legal charge each time there 
is a new loan or borrowing. So, generally, even where a loan has been repaid, but there is a 
continuing banking relationship, the legal charge will stay in place in order to provide security 
for any other indebtedness to the bank covered by the all monies charge, such as an 
overdraft or credit card debt.
Mr P has a number of concerns about the way Lloyds has dealt with his banking. The 
complaint giving rise to this decision is about a request made by Mr P in late 2018 for a 
six-month payment holiday on his commercial loan. Mr P was selling his commercial 
premises and would repay the loan in full from the proceeds of sale. Lloyds agreed to a 
six-month payment holiday from January 2019 but, in error, took the full payment in 
January 2019. 
When Mr P queried this, he was told that the payment holiday couldnt be put in place 
because neither party had a copy of the original paperwork. It wasnt possible, therefore, for 
Lloyds to ascertain if the terms of the contract provided for payment holidays. Lloyds instead 
offered Mr P a six-month interest-free overdraft of £20,000, to enable Mr P to make the 
monthly repayments and repay the overdraft when the property was sold. If the property 
wasnt sold after six months, the overdraft would be reduced by £2,500 per month.
Lloyds accepted it could and should have done better and offered Mr P compensation of 
£500 for trouble and upset and £60 for the cost of Mr Ps phone calls and any interest 
incurred on his credit card. Mr P didnt think this was enough. 
After looking at what Mr P had said, Lloyds increased its offer of compensation to £750. In 
addition, Lloyds paid Mr P £169.31 for the interest and fees hed paid to his credit card 
provider, as well as the £60 for call charges. The overdraft was put in place from May 2019.
However, in May 2019 the overdraft started to reduce by £2,500, as well as the loan 
payment coming out. Mr P complained again. Lloyds said it hadnt made a mistake, because 
the facility letter showed that the reduction would begin from month one. Lloyds agreed to 
leave the overdraft  at that point, £12,500  in place until November 2019.
Mr P was also unhappy that Lloyds continued to hold a charge over his property, even 
though hed repaid the property loan in full. Lloyds explained the nature of an all monies 
charge, but agreed to remove the security it held on Mr Ps property. Lloyds acknowledged 
Mr P hadnt received calls back and so the bank paid him a further £150 compensation, plus 
£10 for call charges.
Mr P was dissatisfied about the way Lloyds had dealt with the matter and brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened.
He noted that Mr P was raising with us new issues hed not raised with Lloyds before, 
specifically around a bridging loan Mr P had taken out. Lloyds said that Mr P would need to 
complain separately about that. The investigator explained this to Mr P.
In relation to the issues we were able to consider, the investigator noted that Lloyds had 
accepted it had made mistakes. He thought the £750 (plus expenses) offered to Mr P for the 
error in telling him he had a payment holiday and then having to put in place an overdraft 
was fair.
In relation to the removal of the security, the investigator thought it was likely that the original 
loan documentation covered both present and future borrowing, so he didnt think the bank 
had done anything wrong in not removing the charge once the original loan was repaid. He 
thought the £150 plus £10 call charges Lloyds had offered Mr P in relation to the service 
hed received when raising this issue was fair in all the circumstances.
However, with regard to the way the overdraft was administered, the investigator thought 
that Mr P had had a reasonable expectation that the overdraft wouldnt reduce until the end 
of the six months. He asked Lloyds to pay a further £200 compensation for this, which the 
bank agreed to do.
So in all, the recommended compensation was £1,100, plus £169.31 for the additional 
interest and fees Mr P had had to pay on his credit card and a total of £70 for phone calls.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said that he had the right of 
redemption for his secured loan and that Lloyds should have removed its legal charge as 
soon as the original loan had been repaid. Mr P queried whether the loans were to a 
business or the sole trader? They cant have it both ways. Mr P asked the investigator to 
look into the issue of the missing paperwork.
Mr P also said that the impact of the mistakes in relation to the temporary overdraft might 
cost him about £20,000 because he had to take out a bridging loan. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that I am unable to look at any issues that havent yet been raised 
with Lloyds as a complaint. So although Ive noted Mr Ps comments about the bridging loan 
and his request for an investigation into missing paperwork, I cant consider these. Mr P will 
first need to raise these with Lloyds and, if he is unhappy with the banks response, he can 
bring a fresh complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important that I dont 
include in my decision anything that might identify Mr P. Finally, Lloyds has acknowledged it 
made some mistakes, so what I need to consider is whether the compensation offered is fair 
and reasonable.
Payment holiday: Lloyds has accepted it made a mistake in telling Mr P he could have a 
payment holiday. I think the bank, in offering the £20,000 interest-free overdraft, did its best 
to put things right in a way that would be at the least cost to Mr P. 
I think the £750 plus the interest and fees of £169.31 charged by Mr Ps credit card provider 
and £60 for Mr Ps phone calls is fair and reasonable for this. It is proportionate to the 
mistake and the timescale involved.
Overdraft: I agree with the investigator that it should have been made clearer to Mr P that 
the overdraft would reduce each month from the start. Mr P had understood that this 
wouldnt happen until the overdraft had been in place for six months. As a result, in addition 
to the overdraft being used for the loan repayments, Mr P also spent some of it on 
equipment and paying his credit card  because he didnt realise that, as well as his loan 
repayments, the overdraft would also be reducing.
Although this was set out in the facility letter, because it didnt reflect Mr Ps understanding of 
how the overdraft would operate, I agree with the investigator that he probably didnt notice 
it. Mr Ps expectation was that the overdraft should run for six months, but if he was paying 
both the loan repayments and the overdraft was reducing at the same time, it would be used 
up in three months.
Im glad to note that Lloyds agreed to leave the overdraft in place until November 2019, 
which is what Mr P had expected to happen. The investigator asked Lloyds to pay Mr P an 
additional £200 compensation for any upset caused by this, and I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Release of security: Mr P is unhappy that the original documents cant be found. As I said 
above, he will need to raise this with Lloyds first. Mr P is also confused about whether the 
loans were to the business or the sole trader. 
Here I think I need to explain that there are different types of business entity. A limited 
company and a partnership or LLP are legal entities in their own right and so a loan can be 
made to those entities. But where, like Mr P, an individual is in business and is not 
incorporated or in a partnership, then the individual is the business, even if they use a 
trading name, as Mr P does. This means that any borrowing Mr P has with the bank for his 
business  whether by way of a secured loan, overdraft, credit card, personal loan  will be 
covered by any all monies charge he has given to the bank.In the circumstances, while Mr P still owed any money to Lloyds, the bank wasnt under any 
obligation to remove the legal charge. So I think Mr P has misunderstood the situation, 
because I dont think the bank has done anything wrong in not removing the legal charge. 
Lloyds has now removed the legal charge, and the bank acknowledged that Mr P had been 
given poor customer service when hed contacted the bank about this. He wasnt called back 
and said he felt victimised. I think the £150 plus £10 for call costs offered by Lloyds for this is 
fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to do the following (where it has not 
already done so):
pay Mr P compensation of £1,100 for trouble and upset;
reimburse Mr P interest and fees on his credit card account of £169.31;
pay Mr P £70 for the cost of telephone calls.
I make no other order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement I direct 
Lloyds Bank PLC to settle the complaint as set out above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman