DRN-2483432
The complaint
Mr R says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2008. The policy was taken out at the
same time as Mr R applied for a credit card. It gave him accident, sickness and
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Mr R said another PPI credit card claim he made was settled and this policy was mis-sold 
like that one. But I can only comment here on the merits of this individual case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr R says he wasnt aware PPI had been applied to his account, or that it was optional and 
could have been refused. But on Mr Rs credit agreement PPI was listed in a separate 
section and Mr R signed electronically to confirm he wanted it. The document referenced 
that Mr R had selected PPI during his online application, and by ticking the box he was 
confirming he wanted to buy it. And I havent found any wording on the agreement that could 
reasonably have led Mr R to believe he had to buy it. 
Overall, I think RBS made it clear to Mr R that he had a choice about PPI, and he agreed to 
take it out.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. It 
was up to Mr R to decide whether the policy was right for him bearing in mind his ability to
make his credit card repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job.
Its possible RBS didnt give Mr R all the information about the PPI that he needed
before he made his decision. But Mr R chose to take out the policy and so appears to
have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered, and apparently 
affordable.
Mr R told us he wasnt entitled to any sick pay from his employer and the PPI would have 
paid out for up to 12 months for all successful accident and sickness claims. He told us he 
had a redundancy pay entitlement, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to any lump 
sum payment from his employer and for up to 12 months. It would have allowed him to 
protect the lump sum payment giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
Mr R said he had savings worth between three- and six-months salary but the PPI would 
have allowed him to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for his future needs. 
Overall, based on what I know about his circumstances and the terms of the PPI policy, I 
cant fairly conclude Mr R wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr R, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman