DRN-4199012
The complaint
Mr H complains Covea Insurance Plc unfairly avoided his landlord insurance policy and 
declined his storm claim. 
Mr H has been represented for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
representatives actions as being those of Mr H. Similarly Ive referred to the actions of 
Coveas agents as being its own. 
What happened
In 2015 Mr H took out a Covea landlord insurance policy for a property he let out. The policy 
renewed each year. Its final renewal was in June 2021. In February 2022 Mr H claimed for 
storm damage against that policy. During the claim Covea discovered the property had a felt 
roof. It said this hadnt been declared when Mr Hs policies were taken out. It said if it had 
been, it wouldnt have offered any cover. So it avoided (treated as though had never existed) 
each policy back to 2015 and tried to refund all the premiums. As this meant there was no 
cover in place, it declined the storm claim.   
Covea responded to a complaint from Mr H. It didnt change its position. Mr H wasnt 
satisfied so came to this service. He says he declared the roof was flat but couldnt be 
expected to know it was felt. He also complains that a delay in decision making by Covea 
resulted in additional damage (up the 50% of the total damage) to his property. Mr H wants 
Covea to pay the claim, reimburse legal fees, reinstate the avoided policies and pay 
compensation for the delay in coming to its decision.   
Our investigator felt Coveas decision to avoid the policies, refund the premiums and decline 
the claim was fair and reasonable.  He also said whilst Covea could have made its claim 
decision earlier he wasnt persuaded the delay was responsible for any additional damage.  
Mr H didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be frustrating for Mr H, but having done so, Im not upholding his complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr H and Covea provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
The first policies were taken out in 2015 and 2016. Its commercial insurance, so the Marine 
Insurance Act 1906 applies. After that, the Insurance Act 2015 (IA15) is the relevant 
legislation. Our investigator felt it was fairer, because of Mr Hs circumstances, to apply the 
principles of Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2012 (CIDRA). I 
agree its reasonable to do that for the initial two policies  pre-IA15. For the policies after 
that, for completeness, Ive considered the principles of both CIDRA and IA15. However, my 
outcome under any of the three pieces of legislation is the same  that it was fair and 
reasonable for Covea to avoid the policies.  
An insurer can take certain action, like avoiding a policy, if a qualifying misrepresentation 
has been made in line with CIDRA. The first thing to consider is whether there a 
misrepresentation.
Coveas provided screen shots of the 2015 online sales journey. It says Mr H was asked to 
agree or disagree to this statement. 
The building is of standard construction. This means it has:
brick, stone or concrete walls
timber or concrete floors
a slate, tile or concrete roof.
Mr H agreed his property is of standard construction. Covea says thats incorrect as the roof 
isnt made of any of the three listed materials  instead its felt. It says if he had correctly 
answered not agree he would have been presented with a list of alternative materials. That 
list included the materials for Mr Hs roof - felt on timber. Theres also been reference to 
mineral felt being the correct material. Covea says in the absence of that option none of the 
above should have been selected. 
Ive considered Mr Hs point that as the property is of standard construction the question 
asked is unclear. I might agree with him if he was only asked if it was of standard 
construction. But instead a definition, for standard construction was provided. For the 
roof material it requires a slate, tile or concrete roof. The buildings roof material wasnt one 
of those listed  so for the purposes of the question and given definition it wasnt of standard 
construction. So its fair to say there was a misrepresentation with the answer I agree.
But for Covea to take any action, like avoid the policy and decline a claim, there would need 
to be a qualifying misrepresentation. For that a few things are required. Firstly there must 
have been a failure to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. CIDRA sets 
out several things to be considered when deciding if this happened. 
One is how specific and clear the questions asked were. Another is any relevant explanatory 
material. Ive considered Mr Hs various points about flat roofs and standard construction. 
But as Ive said the question provides specific criteria for roof material considered as 
standard construction. I think its clear and specific.
Mr H said hes not knowledgeable about construction so couldnt be expected to know the 
roof material wasnt one those listed. I might not expect a reasonable consumer to be aware 
of hidden, disguised or less significant material. But I would be reasonable for them to be 
aware of the main materials used on their property  or if they werent to take reasonable 
steps to find out. 
In addition Mr H received a pre-purchase home survey that referred to the felt. I accept that 
material couldnt be viewed from the ground. But if he wasnt sure he could have made 
enquiries or inspected it himself. So its fair to say Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. 
But the principles of CIDRA also require an insurer to show that without the 
misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover - or would have only done so on different 
terms. Coveas provided underwriting criteria to show it wouldnt have offered cover, in June 2015, if Mr H had answered not agree and had said the roof was constructed with felt. So 
Im satisfied there was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
As far as Im aware the process for taking out the 2016 to 2021 policies differed. A renewal 
policy statement and statement of fact was provided to Mr H for these years. Ive seen the 
documents provided for each year 2015 to 2021.  
They all explain Mr H should get in touch if any changes are required. The statement of fact 
requests that Mr H review the facts given. They set out that the cover is based on the 
information hes provided. Mr H is warned he may not be covered if any of the facts are not 
correct. Immediately below is a series of questions or statements. 
The first question is the same as that set out above for 2015. A pre-populated I agree is 
given. Mr H didnt make contact to change that. For the same reasons Ive set out above its 
reasonable to say Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. For 
the same its fair to say he breached the IA15 duty to make a fair presentation of the risk  
he didnt disclose everything he ought to know. Id say the same for the Marine Acts 
requirement for the insured to disclose everything they should know.
The roof being felt, rather than slate, tile or concrete, would have been revealed by a 
reasonable search of information available to Mr H  including the survey or by arranging a 
roof inspection. 
Its worth noting that the avoidance with the most significance for Mr H is the June 2021 
renewal. Thats the policy his claim is made against. Hes shown an invoice for a roof repair 
from a few months earlier. It lists repair felt roof. So even if he was unsure of the roof 
material earlier, this would have informed him ahead of that renewal.   
Mr H has said he provided Covea with enough information about the roof for it to realise it 
should make further enquiries. But it had asked him about the roof material. Its reasonable 
for it to rely on the information he had given in response.    
Coveas shown, for each of the renewals, that had it been given the correct information it 
wouldnt have offered cover. So having considered the principles of CIDRA, IA15 and the 
Marine Act, I cant say its decision to avoid the 2016 to 2021 policies, refund the premiums 
and decline the 2022 claim was unfair. 
Mr H feels Covea is responsible for additional and unnecessary damage to property. In 
summary he says repairs were delayed for around two months while he waited for Covea to 
make its decision on the claim. He complains he received no emergency assistance to 
prevent water continuing to enter the property. He feels the repairs should have taken 
around three weeks. Hes said Coveas failures here resulted in additional damage to the 
property and loss of rental income.  
Ive found it was reasonable of Covea to avoid the policy the claim was made against. So I 
cant consider its actions against the terms of the policy. But I can consider if it acted fairly 
and reasonably. Even if it had told Mr H of the avoidance of the policy on first day of the 
claim Mr H would have needed to find alternative funding for the repairs and loss of rent. So 
I cant fairly require Covea to cover those  unless I felt additional or unnecessary loss 
resulted from it acting unreasonably. Ive considered if any delay in telling him of the 
avoidance resulted in any additional loss. 
I can see Covea took until around June 2022 to formally tell Mr H of the avoidance and 
decline. Thats longer than Id expect.  However, when Mr H made the claim in 
February 2022 Covea said, due to demand, it was unable to carry out emergency repairs. So it asked Mr H to get these carried out by his own contractors  unfortunately due to workload 
it was a few weeks until they were unable to make the property watertight.  
This means Mr H was in the same position he would have been if Covea had avoided the 
policy at the very outset of his claim  he would have had to arrange the repairs himself. So I 
cant see that any delay in it making that decision has caused further damage to the 
property.  
I should also add that even if I accepted Covea was responsible for some delay in making 
the property watertight I couldnt fairly, based on the evidence provided, say it was 
responsible for additional damage. Mr H explains in an email, dated only five days after the 
claim, that water had now penetrated all the floors and ceilings had now collapsed. 
Considering the short time from the initial loss it would be very difficult to separate out any 
additional damage Covea could be said to be responsible for.  
So for the reasons given above Im not going to require Covea to cover any repair costs or 
pay for any additional damage.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman