DRN-3139243
The complaint
Mr G and Ms S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont pay their home insurance claim 
for their share of storm damage to a chimney.  
What happened
Mr G and Ms S own a flat in a terraced property. In February 2020 during a period of stormy 
weather, one of the communal chimneys collapsed. They notified AXA of the claim but as 
the property managers were instructing a surveyor (W) and assessing the overall cost, they 
had to wait until that information become available. They were able to provide this to AXA in 
September 2020. AXA appointed loss adjusters to review the claim.  It carried out two visits 
to the property, and reported back to Mr G and Ms S in January 2021. The claim was 
declined because the report concluded that the damage wasnt consistent with the level of 
winds experienced and was likely to be due to wear and tear. It also noted that one of the 
other chimney stacks was in a poor condition.
Mr G and Ms S appealed this decision, pointing out that Ws report said the collapse was 
due to the storm. They also pointed out that a neighbours recent survey report in January 
2020 said that no immediate action or repair was needed to the chimney stacks. Also the 
neighbours who have shared responsibility for the chimney had had their claims accepted. 
One of the insurers had appointed the same loss adjuster. AXA responded in May 2021 to 
say that it was still declining the claim.
On referral to this service our investigator said that AXA had acted reasonably in declining 
the claim. But it had significantly delayed in reviewing the claim after receiving the survey 
reports from Mr G and Ms S, so she proposed that it pay compensation of £250.
AXA agreed with the proposed compensation. Mr G and Ms S didnt accept the investigators 
view, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
storm
For storm cover to apply there has to be a one-off incident of storm rather than general bad 
weather over an extended period. As our investigator advised, in storm cases our approach 
is to ask three questions. Were likely to uphold the complaint only if the answer to all those 
questions is yes. The questions are:
1.    Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
was there a storm? 
AXA has agreed there were storm conditions around the time of the chimneys collapse. So 
its likely there was a storm.
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
I note from the weather records that there were windspeeds of up to 63 mph on the days 
leading up to the collapse. On the day the actual collapse was noted, there were windspeeds 
of between 39 and 44 mph. Such windspeeds could cause minor structural damage but I 
have my doubts as to whether they would cause the complete collapse of a structurally 
sound chimney. Nevertheless Ill go onto consider the third question.
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Mr G and Ms S rely on the report prepared by W shortly after the collapse. I think to a great 
extent the loss adjusters also relied on this report. As our investigator advised I have to 
decide whether the storm caused the damage or whether the state of the chimney meant it 
was going to collapse at some point and the storm merely highlighted the poor condition of 
the chimney.
I should emphasise that Ws report wasnt drawn up to show whether or not the insurer 
should be covering the damage. Although W states the chimney was damaged in the recent 
storms, he didnt comment on the condition of the chimney prior to its collapse. He did 
comment that one of the other chimneys was in a poor condition.
The loss adjusters didnt inspect the chimney from roof level. They did an inspection from 
ground level and reviewed the photos taken by W. The conclusions were:
The photos show what appears to be significant erosion and deterioration of the 
sandstone blocks in the location of the collapse, which will pre-date the recent storm 
event.
Damage caused purely as a result of a recent storm would result in much 
sharper/cleaner breaks in the stonework.
It was likely that the sandstone used for the construction of the damaged chimney stack 
had not been of a particularly high standard, leading to significantly greater deterioration 
than some of the other nearby stonework.
It was noted that the corresponding chimney stack on the north section of roof was also 
in a significant state of deterioration, and the Surveyor had remarked upon the possibility 
of a potential future collapse.
It considered that a storm event of winds in the region of 50 to 60 mph would not cause 
the collapse of a stone chimney stack which has been maintained in good structural 
condition. 
Given the appearance of the stonework and the deterioration evident in the neighbouring 
stack, it considered that the chimney will have been in a severely weakened state at the 
time of the storm event, and that an eventual collapse of the chimney without 
intervention/planned maintenance would have been inevitable.For these reasons AXA said that the storm conditions werent the main cause of the 
damage. It said that the damage was caused by a lack of maintenance and wear and tear 
which are excluded under the policy.
Mr G and Ms S are very unhappy with this conclusion. They have referred to:
The fact that the loss adjusters refer to issues as being likely meaning that there could 
be an equally likely different conclusion. 
I dont think this means that. When we say, in terms of evidence that something is likely this 
means it is the more likely scenario. That is the standard of proof we use when deciding 
matters.
The survey report of January 2020 said that no immediate action or repair was needed to 
the chimney stacks. 
I assume this was drawn up for a prospective sale/purchase of one of the flats. The survey 
points out its limitations, and it said inspection of the chimneys was very limited, however, 
we did note signs of typical weathering and staining Ive noted also that Ws survey 
identified that one of the other chimney stacks was in poor condition. I dont think the survey 
report could be relied upon to indicate the condition of the chimneys before the storm.
The fact that one of the other chimneys was in a poor condition doesnt show that the 
chimney that collapsed was in such a condition. There are several other chimneys, none 
of which have been identified as needing repair. 
I agree that of itself another chimney being in a poor condition doesnt necessarily mean the 
collapsed chimney was in a similar state. From the look of the photos the other chimney is in 
a bad state, although only the surveyor could say whether it needs immediate attention. But 
the fact that its constructed from the same materials does, I think, add to the picture of the 
lack of maintenance.
The other neighbours who share in the liability for the chimney have had their claims 
accepted. In the case of one neighbour the same loss adjuster was used.
Unfortunately I have no power to review other peoples insurance claims if they havent 
made a direct complaint to us. No reasons appear to have been given for why these claims 
were accepted, and I dont know any details of the cover on the other policies. Storm cover 
can vary between home insurance policies (if in fact the claims were accepted under storm 
cover). So I can only look at Mr Gs and Ms Ss claim, and whether AXAs decision in respect 
of that claim was reasonable.
I think that AXA has shown that the storm wasnt the main cause of the chimneys collapse 
so acted reasonably in not paying the claim as storm damage.
accidental damage
As Mr G and Ms S have accidental damage to buildings cover I have gone on to consider 
that. This is defined in the policy as:
Sudden, unexpected and unforeseen event that causes visible damage. Cover is only provided where You or Your guests cause the damage, unless We explicitly 
state otherwise.
What I would say about the second half of the definition is that it narrows considerably the 
type of claims covered by accidental damage. I would regard that part of the definition as 
significant and unusual and it should have been brought to Mr Gs and Ms Ss attention 
when they bought the policy (I dont know if it was).
However I dont think it can apply in any event as there is a general exclusion in the policy 
for wear and tear. I think AXA has shown that the main cause of collapse of the chimney was 
wear and tear.
delay in processing the claim
Mr G and Ms S made their claim in early March 2020, but it wasnt until September 2020 that 
they were able to supply AXA with the necessary surveyors report. AXA appointed loss 
adjusters who went out to visit the property in October and November. AXA didnt advise 
Mr G and Ms S of its decision until 23 January, and they had to do chasing up during this 
time. They asked to appeal that decision in early February, but received no response and 
they had to chase and send reminders. AXA finally told them of the outcome on 21 May.
I think this was unreasonably slow, and I understand this caused stress and anxiety to Mr G 
and Ms S in having to wait. Our investigator proposed that AXA pay compensation of £250, 
which it has agreed to. I think thats reasonable.
Putting things right
AXA should pay compensation to Mr G and Ms S of £250.
My final decision
 I uphold the complaint in part and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the remedy set 
out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman