DRN-2240394
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2020. I explained that I was 
expecting to uphold the complaint, but I welcomed further evidence. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr F took receipt of a used car in January 2019. He financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with Startline. At the point of supply the car was about three years old
and had already completed about 29,000 miles.
Mr F had some problems with the car, as follows:
Date Issue Resolution
January 2019 Tyre blew out Fixed by dealership
January 2019 Tyre sensor failed Fixed by dealership
August 2019 Engine replaced Car returned in October 2019 
October 2019 Engine lagging and juddering Spark plug replaced
He complained to Startline who upheld his complaint but didnt provide any redress.
So, Mr F referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. She 
thought the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality and she suggested the business should 
therefore take it back and terminate Mr Fs finance agreement. She also noted that they 
hadnt provided a courtesy car for the whole period when Mr Fs car was being repaired. So, 
she thought they should refund one monthly finance instalment in respect of the lack of use 
Mr F had experienced.
Startline didnt agree with the investigator. They said they should have been given an 
opportunity to inspect the vehicle and that theyd therefore not authorised the repairs the 
dealership had had completed. They said it was therefore unfair to hold them responsible. 
They explained that as Mr F had had the car for more than six months, when the engine fault 
occurred, it was for him to demonstrate that fault was present at the point of supply; when 
they were responsible for the cars quality. They therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
Startline have suggested the repairs Mr F had completed were not authorised by them and 
that theyre therefore not responsible for the faults that have been rectified. They say there is 
no guarantee the repairs would have been necessary, or completed, if theyd been informed. 
Im not persuaded this is fair. I think its highly likely that if Mr F had informed them they 
would have discussed the issue with the dealership and the same remedy would have been 
provided. I think it would be highly unusual for a dealership to supply a new engine/spark 
plug/tyre sensor, if it wasnt accepted there was something wrong. 
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Startline, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. They also 
explain that when we consider if the car was of satisfactory quality we should consider 
whether it has proven to be suitably durable.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr F. The car here 
was around three years old and had completed about 29,000 miles. I think there would 
probably have been some limited wear and tear on a vehicle of this age and mileage.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect the engine to need replacing on a car after 
only eight months of ownership and when the car was only three years old. I think its 
reasonable to suggest this means the car wasnt suitably durable and Mr F should therefore 
be allowed to reject it.
The dealership have suggested they replaced the engine purely out of goodwill and not 
because anything had been noted to be wrong with it. I dont think thats likely. Whilst the 
engine was replaced under warranty I think its reasonable to suggest that would only be 
approved if something was wrong with it. I can see the invoice generated at the time stated, 
suspect bearing failure and that therefore seems the most likely reason it was agreed to 
replace the engine.
I also think its likely this engine was therefore not of sufficient quality at the point the car was 
supplied to Mr F. I say that because the engines premature failure suggests to me that it 
was likely a fault was developing when it was supplied. In those circumstances the relevant 
legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair the fault. If that repair is unsuccessful 
then the business should allow the consumer to reject the car. 
I dont think the engine repair was successful as Mr F experienced a further breakdown after 
the repair was completed. That related to a failed spark plug that was fitted to the new 
engine. So, for those reasons as well, I think Startline should allow Mr F to reject his car.
They should terminate his agreement and take the car back and I would agree with the 
investigator that they should refund the monthly finance instalment Mr F paid in September 
2019 when it is clear he wasnt provided with a courtesy car but was paying for a vehicle through his finance agreement. They should add interest to that refund as Mr F has been 
deprived of that money.
The finance agreement suggests that Mr F paid a deposit of £1076.98. Hes been deprived 
of that money too and it should be refunded to him, with interest, as hell need it to fund a 
replacement vehicle.
Its clear these issues have inconvenienced Mr F. Hes had to return the car to the 
dealership on several occasions and hes had to refer his complaint to this service when I 
think it could have been resolved earlier; especially as Startline had already upheld his 
complaint. In those circumstances I think Startline should pay Mr F some compensation. I 
think £200 is reasonable given the level of distress and inconvenience thats been 
evidenced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell 
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED to:
end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr F;
refund Mr Fs deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund the monthly finance instalment Mr F paid in September 2019 and add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr F £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Mr F didnt have any further evidence to supply but Startline did.
They reiterated their view that the repairs were unauthorised, and they said this was in 
contravention of the relevant legislation. They said the car was obviously fit for purpose as 
Mr F had been able to cover significant mileage in it. They also said:
under the terms and conditions of the finance agreement term 6.1.8 the vehicle must not 
be used for racing, pace making, rallying or any form of motor sport, however, we have 
received the attached (a third party company) to confirm the vehicle has been used for 
criminal activity. As such, Mr F has been in direct breach of his terms and conditions, and it 
would be unknown what damage his driving of the vehicle has caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Startline provided any additional evidence when they reiterated their claim that 
Mr F had the car repaired at an unauthorised dealership. I think I considered that in my 
provisional decision. I said:
Startline have suggested the repairs Mr F had completed were not authorised by them and 
that theyre therefore not responsible for the faults that have been rectified. They say there is 
no guarantee the repairs would have been necessary, or completed, if theyd been informed. Im not persuaded this is fair. I think its highly likely that if Mr F had informed them they 
would have discussed the issue with the dealership and the same remedy would have been 
provided.
I dont think Ive been provided with any additional evidence that would change my view on 
that aspect of the complaint.
Startline have also said that Mr F had fair use of the car. I hadnt suggested they should 
refund any of Mr Fs finance instalments apart from one for when the car was in the garage. I 
understand that Mr F had covered a reasonable mileage when the car wasnt broken. But 
that doesnt in itself mean that the car was suitably durable or not of acceptable quality when 
supplied. And, for the reasons Ive already given, I dont think it was.
Startline have suggested that Mr F has been in breach of the terms of his contract because 
of the way hes been driving his car. The third-party information they supplied did not refer to 
any driving concerns and it was for Startline to provide the information in the timescale I 
allowed so I could review their comments. Ive had a look at the third-party companys 
website and it says they notify lenders if their funded vehicles are seized by the police or 
the DVLA for being untaxed or uninsured..
I cant find reference to them providing a service that reports driving misuse and, even if I 
had that evidence, I would need to be persuaded that it was Mr Fs driving style that was the 
most likely cause of the engine failure and I dont think Startline have provided that evidence 
either. lenders if their funded vehicles are seized by the Police or the DVLA, for being 
either untaxed or uninsured.
Putting things right
For those reasons Ive not seen sufficient evidence to change my provisional decision and 
that now becomes my final decision.
If the car is still impounded then I assume it may be necessary for a release fee to be paid. It 
would not be fair to ask Startline to pay that release fee as Ive not seen evidence the car 
was impounded because of anything theyve done wrong. 
So, whilst Im still intending to tell Startline to carry out the redress I suggested in my 
provisional decision, and which Ive set out below, I understand that they may not be able to 
collect the car until Mr F has arranged for it to be released back into his custody. Its only at 
that point that I would expect Startline to comply with the rest of the redress Im ordering 
(below) as its only when Startline can collect the car that theyll be able to sell it to offset the 
refunds/settlement they need to make under this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell STARTLINE MOTOR 
FINANCE LIMITED to:
end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr F;
refund Mr Fs deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund the monthly finance instalment Mr F paid in September 2019 and add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr F £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue.
They may delay compliance with this redress until Mr F has confirmed that the car is in his 
possession and ready to be collected, or Mr F pays for it to be released from impoundment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman