DRN-3216856
The complaint
Mr M complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and the correspondence he received following a 
review of their business processes.
What happened
Mr M previously held a current account with HSBC, which he closed in 2010. Before this 
account was closed, Mr M had raised concerns with HSBC about the charges hed accrued 
for going over his arranged overdraft as well as HSBCs decision not to convert this account 
to a student account despite him completing a legal qualification at the time.
Mr M made HSBC aware he was in financial difficulty because of this and eventually, HSBC 
agreed to refund Mr M £382 worth of charges hed incurred between 2005  2009. But they 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong when refusing to switch his account to a student 
account. And they didnt think theyd acted unfairly when Mr Ms account was in collections 
and recovery. So, they didnt offer anything more at that time. HSBC offered Mr M the 
chance to escalate his complaint if he remained unhappy but he didnt do so.
In 2020, HSBC wrote to Mr M offering him a £50 gesture of good will to recognise any upset 
he was caused from correspondence they sent to him when his account was in arrears in 
2010. Mr M was confused as to why hed received this offer so long after the event and so 
long after hed close the account. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think HSBC had acted fairly by continuing to store his personal information which 
allowed them to contact him. And he didnt think the £50 they offered to him was well 
explained nor did he think it was fair to address the stress and anxiety their communication 
caused him in 2010. So, he wanted additional compensation to address this.
HSBC responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt think theyd acted unfairly by 
continuing to store Mr Ms personal information. And they explained the £50 sent to Mr M 
was a gesture of goodwill, not an acknowledgement of anything they did wrong. They 
explained they had reviewed their processes and found the process they followed in 2010 
differed to the process they now follow. And they wanted to recognise any upset this caused. 
But they explained the process they followed in 2010 was still correct at that time and the 
good will gesture was made only following a holistic review. So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with this response so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained HSBCs 
remediation project was a common action for a bank to take and any payment offered 
through this doesnt automatically mean the service HSBC provided was unfair. And she 
explained HSBC were entitled to set the criteria for what courses qualify for a student 
account. So, she didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong when deciding Mr Ms course 
didnt.
And she explained even so, shed seen HSBC had refunded Mr M any charges hed incurred 
on his current account and that no more charges were applied until he closed the account. 
So, even if she thought HSBC had acted unfairly, she thought this refund wouldve been a 
fair offer to address this. So, she didnt think HSBC needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He was unhappy our investigator hadnt commented on HSBCs decision 
to store his personal information for so long after the account had been closed. And he didnt 
think the investigator had given an explanation as to why HSBC had reviewed their process 
and decided to change them more recently.
Our investigator responded explaining any issues about the storing of personal information 
would need to be directed to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who regulate data 
protection within the United Kingdom. So, she explained she was unable to comment on this 
further. And she explained HSBC had opted to take a softer approach to customers in the 
same position as Mr M in more recent times but she also explained this didnt mean their 
actions were unfair at the time. Mr M remained unhappy with this explanation so his 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I appreciate Mr M was 
struggling financially in 2009, when HSBC explained they were unable to change his account 
to a student account. And I understand how the charges applied to his account wouldve 
added to this difficulty. I also recognise the stress Mr M wouldve felt when his account fell 
into arrears and he needed to offer repayment plans to clear his outstanding debt. To 
combat this, Mr M cleared and closed his account. So, when HSBC contacted him some 10 
years later, I can understand Mr Ms confusion. And I can also recognise how this would 
cause him to revisit some of the upset and anxiety he felt at the time.
But for me to say HSBC have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied that their 
decision to provide Mr M with a good will gesture was unreasonable. Or, that the good will 
gesture itself was unfair. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I want to explain exactly what Ive been able 
to consider. Part of Mr Ms complaint relates to the amount of time HSBC has stored his 
personal information. Im unable to comment on this as it doesnt fall within this services 
remit. It should instead be referred to the ICO who deal with complaints of this nature and its 
my understanding Mr M has already done this.
Mr Ms main dispute centres around the reason for HSBC provided him with a £50 good will 
gesture as part of their remediation scheme. Mr M doesnt think HSBC have explained why 
they took the decision to change their process or that the £50 adequately recognises the 
upset hes been caused. But I think its important to note that the £50 HSBC offered Mr M 
was classified as a goodwill gesture, not an offer of compensation. So, the £50 was offered 
to Mr M without any admittance that HSBC had made a mistake in 2010.
HSBC have explained the £50 was offered to recognise customers such as Mr M wouldve 
received a softer service had they found themselves in the same situation in 2020. But crucially, HSBC have said the service they provided to Mr M followed the correct process 
that was in place at time he received it. 
Specifically, HSBC have explained a letter sent to Mr M in 3 July 2010 wouldve been sent to 
Mr M at a different time under their new process. So, while the letter was sent at the correct 
point in time in 2010, HSBC have offered Mr M £50 to recognise any upset this may have 
caused at the time.
HSBC have explained this offer has been made as part of their business wide initiative to 
review and improve their procedures. And I think this is a fair and valid reason and I wouldnt 
expect HSBC to provide any further detail as they are entitled to change their business 
processes as they see fit. So, while I understand why Mr M wants to understand exactly why 
a change was introduced, this isnt something I think HSBC need to provide. And so, I dont 
think theyve acted unfairly by not doing so.
And as the £50 was offered to Mr M as a gesture of good will, I wouldnt expect it to be 
calculated or based on Mr Ms individual circumstances at the time. Instead, its a blanket 
offer to any customers affected similarly. And as this offer has been made was a business 
decision by HSBC, due to a change in business process, Im unable to comment on this or 
ask HSBC to change it. Only the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, can 
investigate and comment upon business processes.
But even so, for completeness, Ive thought about the issues Mr M raised with HSBC at the 
time his account was open. Mr M complained about HSBCs refusal to change his account to 
a student account. HSBC have explained this is because the course Mr M was enrolled on 
didnt meet the eligibility criteria for this type of account. Again, it was HSBCs own business 
decision to set the criteria for accounts as part of a business decision. So, Im unable to 
comment on this or say they acted unfairly. But I have seen despite this, they agreed to 
refund any charges applied to Mr Ms account between 2005 and 2009 and no more charges 
were applied before the account was closed. So, I dont think Mr M was financially impacted 
by HSBCs refusal to change his account type and they took reasonable steps to address Mr 
Ms financial situation.
So, because of the above, I dont think HSBC need to do anything more on this occasion. I 
understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for but I hope it provides some clarity on 
why HSBC offered him the £50 and the reasoning behind it.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman