DRN-2391127
The complaint
Mr W complains about what happened when his former home was sold by Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr W told us that he and his family left their home after their financial situation changed. The 
house was sold by his mortgage company, Halifax. Mr W wanted to complain about a 
number of things that happened during the sale. 
Mr W said that he was unhappy not to have any input into the choice of agents to sell the 
house. He felt that the agents Halifax chose had no interest in achieving the best price for 
the property, and it was sold for much less than he expected. In particular, he said the 
property had additional land with it, which he understood had development potential, but this 
was just sold with the house instead of separately. He said the surplus from the sale wasnt 
paid to him, and Halifax wouldnt tell him why not. There were concerns that the new owners 
were told a vehicle left on the property was included in the sale, which it wasnt. And he said 
that his efforts to communicate with Halifax were routinely ignored. 
Halifax has written Mr W a number of complaint response letters, and does accept it made 
some mistakes. It said it shouldnt have offered to put marketing on hold, when Mr W 
expressed concerns about the agents. It shouldnt have told Mr W to contact those estate 
agents directly to complain about the marketing. It should have sent Mr W a closing 
statement and breakdown of sale. But it said it had been advised that selling the land 
separately to the house wasnt viable. And there was no evidence that Halifax or its agents 
indicated that Mr Ws car was included in the sale. And it said that its handling of this issue 
had been affected by the pandemic. 
Halifax thought it had done enough to put things right.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He explained our role is to 
make sure that Halifax had done all that we would expect it to do. And he thought that 
Halifax had done. Although it had made some mistakes on the way through in how it 
communicated with Mr W, it had addressed those. And importantly, it had acted to achieve 
the best possible sale price. He didnt think it had to do any more.
Mr W didnt agree. He said that Halifax had admitted it had got things wrong, so he wanted 
the case reviewed again. He said he wasnt treated with empathy by all those involved. And 
he was looking for a more credible sum in compensation. So the case came to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision on this complaint as our investigator.
I do understand Mr Ws concerns around this sale, and I can entirely see how those have 
emerged. Although, like our investigator, I dont think that Halifax has made mistakes in how 
its marketed Mr Ws house, or what its done to achieve the best price, I can see that its not 
been good at communicating with Mr W during the process. And when hes expressed 
concerns, its not been good at dealing promptly with those. I think those are the mistakes 
that Halifax has accepted it made, and thats why it has paid compensation. 
Ill look at each of the issues in turn. 
Mr W was concerned that the house was marketed together with a parcel of land, which he 
thought shouldve been sold separately. He said hed previously had expressions of interest 
from developers about this land. But Halifax said it had asked its valuers about this, and they 
thought that the parcel of land was too small for it to be developed separately to the house. 
Thats why Halifax sold the land with the house. 
I think that its reasonable for Halifax to seek out advice on this, and then to act on that 
advice. So I dont think this was a mistake by Halifax.
Mr W didnt think that Halifax had made a good choice of agent to market his home. I can 
see he was concerned that there werent enough pictures of his house when it was first 
listed, but I think Halifax has explained that this was because there were still a number of his 
personal items in the property, and it wont use pictures which show those items, to protect 
his privacy. I think thats a reasonable decision for Halifax to take. 
I know that Halifax had indicated that Mr W could have input into the choice of agents, and it 
said it would put a hold on marketing while his concerns were resolved. I dont think it 
actually had to do that, and indeed, I dont think it wouldve been to Mr Ws advantage for 
marketing of his property to stop, while interest was still accruing on his debt. So I think the 
mistake here is what Halifax said. Its paid Mr W £150 in compensation for that. I think that 
provides a fair outcome to this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Halifax then also said that if Mr W had concerns about how the property was being 
marketed, he should contact the estate agents directly. But all the agent did was refuse to 
talk to him, as he wasnt the seller. Halifax paid £75 in compensation for that. Again, I think 
that provides a fair outcome to this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W said there shouldve been a surplus from the sale, but Halifax didnt pay him that, and 
it didnt tell him what had happened to the money. Halifax now says that it should have sent 
Mr W a closing statement and breakdown of sale at the time. Instead, it just passed on the 
details of the solicitors it had asked to deal with the surplus. But crucially, it didnt give those 
solicitors Mr Ws details, so they couldnt write to tell him that the money had been sent on to 
solicitors who manage the second charge on the property. Halifax paid Mr W £200 in 
compensation for that. 
I do think its likely that Mr W knew about the second charge over his house, so I think he 
shouldve been expecting that surplus money would be used first towards that. But I also think Halifax shouldve been much clearer in its communications with Mr W. So Im pleased 
to see it has accepted it made a mistake, and paid compensation.
Mr W also said he had been told by the buyers that the estate agents indicated his car was 
included in the sale, which it definitely wasnt. I dont question what Mr W has told us that he 
heard from the buyer. But it doesnt look like theres anything to support what that buyer has 
said, about the estate agents being responsible for this. Halifax has reassured Mr W that the 
car was not included in the sale particulars. And it would be quite odd for an estate agent to 
indicate that the car would be included in the sale of the house  ownership of cars and 
houses is transferred in very different ways. So I do think theres been some confusion here, 
but I dont think its most likely that this is the fault of Halifax or its estate agents. 
Mr W said that overall, he didnt think hed been treated with empathy, and he said that 
Halifaxs complaint handling had been very poor. Halifax has said that there was an impact 
from the pandemic on its responses to Mr W, and I can see that the house did sell not long 
after the first lockdown started, so I would understand that this would have had an impact. 
But I dont think it explains all of the mistakes that have been made here. So I need to think 
about whether what Halifax has already paid to Mr W, is a fair and reasonable amount to 
make up for whats gone wrong.
When I do that, I need to bear in mind that where Halifax let Mr W down was in how it kept 
him informed about the sale. Its not in how the sale was organised, or the overall price 
achieved for his house, or where that money was paid. I know that Mr W feared things were 
much worse, but I think that Halifax took the right steps with regard to Mr Ws sale. It just did 
a bad job of telling him about that. 
I also have to bear in mind that the situation Mr W was in is, unfortunately, always likely to 
be very stressful and difficult. I have to put aside the effect of Mr W losing his home, which 
isnt the complaint he brings against Halifax, and look only at what it did.
And looking at Mr Ws case overall, I can see that Halifax has paid a total of £425 in 
compensation, for the communication errors it has made. I know Mr W thinks this isnt 
enough for what hes been through, but bearing in mind all of the above, I do think that is in 
line with what I wouldve awarded in this case, if payments hadnt already been made. And 
because of that, I dont think Halifax has to do any more. 
I know that this will disappoint Mr W, but I dont think that his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman