DRN-3038355
The complaint
Mr B, through his representative, complains that Advance Investments Limited failed to 
arrange the investments they recommended to him and hes suffered a loss as a result.
What happened
Mr B says that in 2013 Advance recommended that he invest £300,000 into a Hawksmoor 
portfolio and £100,000 into a Thurleigh portfolio. He says that at the time the Hawksmoor 
portfolio was performing better, so he was happy with the advice and instructed Advance to 
proceed.
In 2019 he complained to Advance and said they had confused the instructions. He referred 
to the suitability report from the time which set out the recommendation. However, contrary 
to the report, £300,000 had been invested in Thurleigh and £100,000 in Hawksmoor. He 
asked to be put back in the position he should have been in if the instructions had been 
correctly followed.
Advance didnt uphold his complaint. They thought the investments had been made correctly 
and it was the suitability report that was wrong. They said Mr B had signed the application 
forms showing which investments were to be made and hadnt questioned anything at the 
time. And hed received valuations every six months since the investments were made but 
had never raised any concerns until six years later.
Mr B didnt agree with their findings and brought the complaint to this service. I issued a 
provisional decision in July 2021.
My provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say that this complaint is finely balanced. There have been valid arguments
from both sides. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as
some of it is here) I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is  whats
more likely than not to have happened in all of the circumstances here, based on the
available evidence.
I think the application forms that were sent to Mr B in October 2013 are a key piece of
evidence. I say this because unlike the suitability report, the information about the
investments that were to be made were handwritten by the adviser. The forms contain
specific, important pieces of information about Mr Bs circumstances which were also
handwritten - his date of birth, address, bank account details and details about his former
business. I think its reasonable to suggest that the adviser would have taken more care with
the application forms due to the nature of the information it contained.
The application forms were also completed closer to the time the advice was given than the
suitability report which was completed the following month. Taking all this into account, I
think its more likely that the application forms are a more accurate record of the
recommendation that the adviser made than the suitability report.
Ive also looked at the investments Mr B held prior to the advice he received. I can see that
he had invested around £2,200,000 in Thurleigh, £790,000 in Hawksmoor and £1,700,000 in
other investments. He also made a further investment in 2014 where he invested around
£114,000 in Hawksmoor and around £1,300,000 in three other investments. So, from what
Ive seen from when Mr B invested, he put a higher proportion of money into other
investments than the Hawksmoor portfolio.
The recommendation was brought about by Mr Bs wife having cash on deposit which she
wanted to invest. I think its reasonable to suggest that Mr B would have wanted his wifes
money to be aligned with his holdings which Ive seen to be more heavily weighted towards
Thurleigh than Hawksmoor.
So, taking everything into account. I think its more likely that Mr B was advised to invest
£300,000 in the Thurleigh portfolio and £100,000 in the Hawksmoor portfolio - this would
mean Advances actions here were not in error, and that Mr Bs money was invested in line
with the advice he received. So, from what Ive seen so far, I dont think Advance have done
anything wrong.
Responses to my provisional decision
Advance didnt have anything further to add. Mr Bs representative didnt agree with my 
findings and said, in summary:
Mr B accepted that there must have been an error in either the suitability report or the 
application forms. But it was more likely the error occurred in the application forms.
While the application forms may have been prepared closer in time to the advice than 
the suitability report, they do not appear to have been completed at the time of the 
advice, as they were dated (by the adviser) as 8 October and 22 October. No 
explanation had been provided for the different dates and this discrepancy rendered 
the forms somewhat unreliable as evidence.
Advance said that they made a simple typographical error when preparing the 
suitability report but this didnt ring true. It was common for investment 
recommendations of the same type to appear in order of investment size with the 
largest first, so if this was a simple error, they would have expected the Thurleigh 
portfolio to appear first with the sum of £100,000 next to it, and also to be described 
first thereafter. As it was, the Hawksmoor portfolio appeared first in both respects. If 
there was an error in the suitability report, it appeared to have gone beyond a mere 
typographical error and affected the layout of the report. So, there was in fact no 
error in the suitability report at all, and that it was laid out in a manner which gave 
primacy to the Hawksmoor portfolio because that was where the lions share of the 
investment was meant to have gone.
It was very surprising that there was no other written evidence of what Advances 
recommendation or rationale was. Given the importance of Mr B as a client, and the 
sums of money he was investing, they would have expected Advance to have kept 
detailed notes  or at the very least to have described their rationale in detail in the 
suitability report.
In the absence of any other written evidence, it was not fair or reasonable to engage 
in speculation. For example, the suggestion that because the money being invested 
was his wifes, Mr B would have wanted the investments to align with his own existing investments which were allocated more heavily towards the Thurleigh 
portfolio. There is no evidence at all for this, and it may well have been more sensible 
to allocate the extra investment towards the Hawksmoor portfolio to bring the two 
closer into line.
Regardless of where the error occurred, it should not have been made, or it should 
have been identified at the time by Advance and brought to Mr Bs attention. The fact 
that an error was made, or was not brought to his attention, has disadvantaged him.
Advance evidently paid no attention to the application forms they had submitted or 
any information from the Novia platform when preparing the suitability report. Had 
they done so, they would surely have identified that the investment had been 
allocated incorrectly, in which case they could have brought the error to Mr Bs 
attention so that it could be rectified at the time. Alternatively, if the investment had 
been allocated correctly as Advance said, then Advance should have reflected the 
situation accurately in the suitability report at the time, thus avoiding this dispute.
Advance also failed to provide any explanation in their suitability report regarding 
allocating funds more heavily to one portfolio than the other. The purpose of a 
suitability report was to record the investments recommended and explain the 
reasons for recommending them, so the report was non-compliant in this respect. If 
Advance had made the effort to explain their reasons, even briefly, they would surely 
have identified that the investment had been allocated incorrectly, in which case they 
could have brought the error to Mr Bs attention so that it could be rectified at the 
time. 
Advance had sought to blame Mr B for not identifying the discrepancy, but it is simply 
not realistic to expect Mr B to have identified it, given the number of investments he 
had. He reasonably relied on Advance to communicate with him accurately (as part 
of its regulatory duty to communicate in a fair, clear and not misleading manner).
Ultimately, it was difficult to see why Mr B should be disadvantaged by Advances 
error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. I note the points Mr Bs representative has raised but I dont consider that any new 
material points have been made. Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same and 
have been considered in my provisional decision, so Im not persuaded to change my 
opinion.
I appreciate that the application forms may not have been completed at the time of the 
advice. But my point still stands that they were handwritten by the adviser, and the nature of 
the information they contained meant that the adviser would have taken more care to ensure 
they were correct. Im not persuaded that the forms are unreliable as evidence because they 
were completed on differing dates.
Im also not persuaded that the Hawksmoor portfolio appearing first in the suitability report 
meant that was where the larger investment should have been made. Its not unreasonable 
to suggest that because an error was made in listing the Hawksmoor portfolio first, then the 
rest of the suitability report would have been impacted by that error. Because the table of the 
two investments listed the Hawksmoor investment as the larger of the two, then it would 
follow that the rest of the report mirrored that format.I take the points regarding the lack of detail and any other written evidence, but I must make 
my decision using the available information. And for the reasons Ive given in my provisional 
decision, I think the available evidence suggests it is more likely than not that the Thurleigh 
portfolio was meant to be the larger investment of the two. 
I disagree with the suggestion that there is no evidence that Mr B would have wanted this 
investment to align with his existing holdings at the time. The investments hed made before 
and after this one all clearly show that a higher proportion of money being invested was put 
into other investments than the Hawksmoor portfolio.
I accept that Advance could have identified the error but because I think the investments 
were made in line with the advice that was given, then I dont think Mr B has been 
disadvantaged and I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman