DRN-3747472
The complaint
Mr V complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) told him 
incorrect information concerning the interest rate applied to his ISA account. 
What happened
In August 2022, Mr V called Tesco Bank to open a cash ISA account. The advisor told him 
the rate of interest and Mr V asked whether a bonus interest rate would apply if he kept the 
account for at least 12 months. The account was opened and a welcome pack sent. 
Mr V says upon reading the welcome pack which included the terms and conditions, he 
noticed the 1.36% interest rate was inclusive of a bonus rate of 1.11% and not in addition to 
it. He also said he had problems transferring money into the ISA account from a third party 
bank. 
Tesco Bank said during the call, the advisor made it clear the interest rate quoted of 1.36% 
already included the bonus rate. They also said if he had issues transferring money into the 
account, he would need to raise this with the third party bank directly. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr V referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. She concluded Tesco Banks advisor had 
provided correct information about the interest rate. She also said they had provided correct 
account details and if Mr V had issues transferring money into account, that wasnt the fault 
of Tesco Bank. Mr V disagreed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Tesco Bank has provided a copy of the call recording with Mr V which Ive listened to. When 
given the option of two different ISA accounts, I can hear Mr V confirmed he wanted the 
instant access cash ISA account. The advisor confirmed the interest rate would be 1.36%. 
When Mr V asked whether a bonus interest rate would apply, the advisor says: 
Yes you do get a bonus rate, that rate includes a fixed bonus rate of 1.11% for the 12 
months from the date that the account was opened. 
Having listened to the call, Im satisfied the advisor gave correct information. She made it 
clear the interest rate she quoted included a bonus rate. She also advised if he was unhappy 
with the account, he had 30 days to withdraw and all this information would be sent via a 
welcome pack. 
As advised, Tesco Bank sent a welcome pack to Mr V. It included the ISA certificate, 
account terms, key documents, etc. Having seen a copy of the same, I can see the terms 
state the interest rate and it says its inclusive of a fixed bonus rate for 12 months. This 
information is located prominently at the top of the document so Im satisfied Mr V wouldve 
seen it. I consider that information to be in line with what he was told over the telephone. So 
I dont agree he was given incorrect or misleading information about the interest rate nor the 
bonus rate. Im satisfied this was made clear verbally during the phone call and in writing in 
the terms and conditions document.   
From my understanding, Mr V is unhappy with the interest rate. I note, the covering letter 
which enclosed the welcome pack outlined his right to cancel the ISA account within 30 days 
by writing or calling Tesco Bank. He was also told the same during the call. If Mr V wasnt 
happy with the account, it would be reasonable to expect he would cancel it but there is no 
evidence this happened. So I cant say Tesco Bank did anything wrong by assuming he was 
happy with the account and he wanted to keep it. 
I also understand Mr V experienced difficulty transferring money into this ISA account from a 
third party bank. He was told the account details werent recognised. Similar to the 
investigator, I find Tesco Bank provided him with correct account details so I cant 
reasonably say they were the cause of the issues Mr V experienced. It was fair for them to 
say he needed to contact the third party bank for more information to resolve the issue. 
Overall, Im satisfied Tesco Bank provided clear and correct information to Mr V about the 
interest rate that applied to his ISA account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman