DRN-3356023
The complaint
Mr O complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans (Oakbrook) lent to 
him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr O was given a loan by Oakbrook in June 2021. He borrowed £2,000 that he agreed to 
repay in 24 monthly instalments. Mr O appears to have faced difficulties making his 
repayments and a balance remained outstanding when he made his complaint.
Mr Os complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the checks 
Oakbrook had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate. And he didnt think the 
results of those checks suggested that Mr O was facing problems managing his money. So 
he didnt think Oakbrook had been wrong to give the loan to Mr O.
Mr O didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Os complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Oakbrook gave this loan to Mr O required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Oakbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr O. 
In practice this meant that Oakbrook had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr O undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Oakbrook to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr O. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Oakbrook did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mr O.
Oakbrook gathered some information from Mr O before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal housing costs. It then used some industry statistical 
data to estimate the remainder of Mr Os normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and look at how he had managed 
credit in the past.
Mr O was entering into a significant commitment with Oakbrook. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that Oakbrook wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Os financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that Oakbrooks checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So 
Ive looked at the results of Oakbrooks checks to see whether it made a fair lending 
decision.
The information that Mr O declared about his normal income and housing costs, combined 
with the information Oakbrook saw about his credit commitments, and its estimates of his 
other living costs, suggested that Mr O would have sufficient disposable income to meet his 
loan repayments. And Mr O had told Oakbrook that he wanted to use the loan to help 
consolidate some other debts. So that would likely have meant that Mr Os future credit 
expenditure would be lower than could be seen on the credit check. So I dont think the 
results of the checks suggested that Mr O would find it difficult to meet his loan repayments 
in a sustainable manner.
The credit check also didnt show any evidence that Mr O was facing problems managing his 
money. The check results stated that Mr O hadnt taken a new payday loan in the past two 
years. And they also showed little evidence that Mr O was heavily reliant on credit to meet 
his day to day living costs. The checks suggested that Mr O had a little less than £1,700 in 
outstanding credit spread across loans, credit cards, and mail order accounts. The checks 
confirmed that Mr O had generally met all his repayments as they became due.As I said earlier, I think the checks Oakbrook did were proportionate. And I think it was 
reasonable for Oakbrook to rely on the results of those checks. I appreciate that Mr O says 
his actual finances were in far worse shape than the checks suggested. And the bank 
statements he has sent us would support that observation, showing signs of repeated 
short-term borrowing, unpaid transactions, and little disposable income. But that wasnt 
something he declared to Oakbrook when he asked for the loan. And it wasnt something 
that Oakbrook should reasonably have concluded from the results of its proportionate 
checks. 
Given that the results of the checks didnt show any problems I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect Oakbrook to have probed deeper into Mr Os finances and so 
discovered the problems he was facing. So, although I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr O, I dont think Oakbrook was wrong to give this loan to him. As I said 
earlier, a balance still remains unpaid on this loan  I would remind Oakbrook that it should 
continue to treat Mr O sympathetically when discussing the repayment of what he owes.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman