DRN-2788927
The complaint
Miss E complains that Funding Circle Ltd failed to take effective recovery action on several 
defaulted loans she had in invested in through its crowdfunding platform. Shes also 
unhappy with the level of updates Funding Circle provided during the recovery action.
What happened
Miss E holds a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer to peer (P2P) lending 
platform. She originally self-selected her loans on the account, but it later changed to an 
automated account where loan parts were bought and sold on her behalf based on set 
criteria.
Miss E raised a number of concerns with Funding Circle regarding six loans she was 
invested into. Ill refer to these as Loans A to F and will set out the background for each of 
these individually below.
Loan A
Miss E invested £20 into Loan A with a company I shall refer to as Company A. The loan 
was taken out in March 2017. Unfortunately, the loan defaulted in October 2017 and Funding 
Circle had to take recovery action against Company A and the personal guarantor. Miss Es 
concerns regarding this loan was that Funding Circle failed to secure a Voluntary Charging 
Order (VCO) against the personal guarantors property.
Funding Circle said it contacted the personal guarantor to discuss repayment options and 
they initially agreed to sell their property in order repay investors. Funding Circle said it didnt 
seek a VCO over the property as the sale was ongoing and it didnt want to frustrate the sale 
and cause any undue delay in repayment. Funding Circle said it appropriately pursued the 
personal guarantor but unfortunately, they later declared bankruptcy. 
Miss E remained unhappy and so she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. An investigator considered Miss Es complaint. He didnt think Funding 
Circle had acted unfairly by not obtaining a VCO on the personal guarantors property as the 
property wasnt listed as security for the loan. Rather, the security was the personal 
guarantee which Funding Circle had pursued. 
Miss E didnt accept the investigators findings as she said it was Funding Circle who said it 
would secure the VCO in one of its loan comments updates, but it waited another five 
months before taking any legal action. 
Loan B
Miss E invested £100 into Loan B with a company I shall refer to as Company B, which was 
defaulted in February 2019. Funding Circle agreed a reduced repayment plan with the 
personal guarantor for the loan. The personal guarantor agreed to pay 50% of the 
contractual monthly payments which would be reviewed every six months.
Miss E complained to Funding Circle as she felt there was publicly available information 
which suggested the personal guarantor could afford to pay more than was agreed. She said 
shed seen that the personal guarantor was owed £57,000 by another company they owned 
which Funding Circle should have considered when reviewing the repayment plan.
Funding Circle said the intention of the repayment plan was to support Company B and the 
personal guarantor with the repayment of the total outstanding debt. Which, under affordable 
repayment terms, would allow for the debt to be repaid in full. 
Miss E remained unhappy and so she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. The investigator looked into Miss Es complaint about Loan B, but he 
didnt think Funding Circle had acted unfairly. He said he couldnt be certain what the 
outcome of any missed reviews would have been, but he recognised that the repayment 
plan was in place to repay the debt in full. 
Miss E didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said that Funding Circle refused to admit 
to her that it hadnt carried out reviews of the repayment plan as it said it would. She said 
Funding Circle could have saved her some trouble and upset here, as she said she invested 
a great deal of time in communicating with it to try and understand whether it had carried out 
the reviews as promised. 
Loan C
Miss E invested £99 into Loan C with a company I shall refer to as Company C. The loan 
was automatically assigned to her in April 2018 as part of Funding Circles automated 
lending tool. As such, she did not receive or review any promotional material for the loan 
before investing. 
Miss E raised a complaint with Funding Circle as Company C voluntarily wound up quickly 
after the loan was assigned to her and the personal guarantor couldnt be found. Miss E said 
Company C had acted fraudulently and Funding Circle failed in its due diligence. 
Funding Circle didnt uphold Miss Es complaint. It said that at the time of offering the loan it 
felt fully confident that Company C would be able to service the loan as contracted to. 
Funding Circle explained that whilst each loan is rigorously assessed prior to offer, there is 
always a risk that unforeseen events may occur that cannot be predicted at the assessment 
stage. It said it defaulted the loan in order to commence recovery action as quickly as 
possible and it was working hard to contact Company C who were currently unresponsive. 
Funding Circle also clarified that there were no findings of fraud with regards to the loan, 
however, should that change it said it would keep investors updated.
Miss E wasnt satisfied with Funding Circles response and so she referred her complaint to 
this service for an independent review. An investigator looked into her complaint but didnt 
think Funding Circle had acted unfairly. He said he didnt think Funding Circle misled 
investors into thinking there was any more security than the personal guarantees and it was 
clear about the risks involved in lending on the platform. 
Miss E didnt accept the investigators findings. She queried whether this service had seen 
evidence of Funding Circles investigation into whether Company C had acted fraudulently. 
She also said the promotional material was incorrect as it said there were no loans to 
Company C, but shed seen a statement of affairs document on the Companies House 
website from May 2018 which showed it had around £236,000 owed to creditors. She was 
also unhappy that Funding Circle didnt report this to Action Fraud and said it wasnt acting 
her best interests by not doing so. The investigator considered Miss Es points, but they didnt change his opinion. He said that 
its at Funding Circles discretion whether to report the matter to Action Fraud or not, but he 
didnt think this had a tangible impact on her. He said the personal guarantor disappeared 
immediately so he couldnt say that there were any specific actions that Funding Circle 
couldve taken to try and rectify the situation sooner. 
Loan D
Miss E invested just under £19 into Loan D with a company I shall refer to as Company D, 
which was defaulted in July 2017. Funding Circle agreed a reduced repayment plan with the 
personal guarantors in September 2017. The agreement was that the personal guarantors 
would pay 55.35% of the contractual monthly repayment which would be subject to quarterly 
reviews.
Like in her complaint about Loan B, Miss E complained to Funding Circle as she felt it failed 
to carry out the reviews of the repayment plan and that there was publicly available 
information which suggested Company D could afford to pay more than was agreed. She 
said shed seen Company D had considerably more assets in its accounts from 2017 
onwards than when it obtained the loan. She said Company Ds accounts to March 2020 
show that it had loaned around £216,000 to another group company. She said Funding 
Circle should have considered this when reviewing the repayment plan.
Funding Circle didnt uphold the complaint. Funding Circle said that it outlines in its terms 
and conditions and additional literature that in the event of defaults, it would seek the debt 
accordingly and on behalf of investors so this is something Miss E needed to be comfortable 
with. 
Miss E remained unhappy and so she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. The investigator looked into Miss Es complaint about Loan D but he 
didnt think Funding Circle had acted unfairly. He said Funding Circle made attempts to 
increase the level of monthly repayments in the plan, but it had no success. He added that 
taking legal action has the risk of not being cost-effective and so he didnt think Funding 
Circle had acted unreasonably. 
Miss E didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said that sending a request for a review 
doesnt amount to a proper financial review being conducted. 
Loan E and Loan F
Miss E invested £40 into Loan E with a company I shall refer to as Company E and £100 into 
Loan F with a company I shall refer to as Company F. Both companies were voluntary struck 
off and Miss E complained as she felt Funding Circle shouldve prevented this from 
happening. 
Funding Circle didnt uphold Miss Es complaint about Loan E and Loan F. It said its not 
always notified when a company is proposing to strike off. Sometimes this does not come to 
fruition and the proposal is suspended. 
Miss E was unhappy with Funding Circles response and said it ought to have kept up to 
date with any notifications around Company E and Company F in the Gazette or on the 
Companies House website. In response, Funding Circle said its important to stress that the 
loan comments are a place for all investors to receive the same amount of information 
surrounding companies they are lending to and that it doesnt provide additional information 
to investors on an ad hoc basis to ensure all investors receive the same information. Miss E said this response didnt answer her questions and so she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
An investigator looked into Miss Es complaint about Loan E and Loan F but didnt uphold 
them. In summary, he said he didnt think any action Funding Circle could have taken would 
have made any difference to the outcome in these cases. He said it was clear the loans 
were heading for a default in any case and so he couldnt see how preventing them from 
striking off wouldve improved her chances of recovery on the loans.
Miss E didnt accept the investigators findings. She explained that a voluntary strike off 
should only happen if the company has no agreements with creditors which both companies 
did. She said the Companies House website makes it very clear that striking off should not 
be seen as a cheap alternative to insolvent liquidation and the procedure assumes the 
directors have followed the correct process which is to send all company creditors a 
notification form alerting them to the intention to strike off. Miss E said Funding Circle hadnt 
provided any evidence to show that it received this notification or whether it considered 
preventing the voluntary strike off of these companies. In relation to Company F, she added 
that it had assets worth around £390,000 at the time and Funding Circles failure to act 
means she will never know what happened to the money from the sales of those assets. 
Lack of updates
Miss E raised concerns regarding the lack of updates provided by Funding Circle on her 
loans. 
Funding Circle explained that its time frame for updating loan comments is usually monthly, 
unless otherwise stated. It said that whilst its not obliged by regulation to provide the level of 
information it does on defaulted loans, it aims to be as transparent as possible with investors 
and provide updates on defaulted loans as good practice. However, it said that there are 
unfortunately times where it is unable to provide updates as frequently as investors would 
like. 
The investigator noted that Funding Circle acknowledged that it failed to provide frequent 
updates on the loans, and he said that the delays in Loan A were particularly long, with no 
update given for around 13 months. Funding Circle accepted this and agreed to pay Miss E 
£150 in recognition of the delays. 
In response to this, Miss E said she would accept £150 but only in relation to the delays 
experienced on Loan A. 
As Miss E didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive very carefully considered the detailed submissions that Miss E has provided. I can 
confirm that Ive read and considered her submissions in their entirety. However, I hope Miss 
E doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to each submission or every 
point she has raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to do that, but rather to explain my 
findings on the key issues. 
Funding Circles investor terms which Miss E agreed to when opening her account are relevant in my consideration of all her loans. These explain that Funding Circle would 
ultimately make any decisions regarding recovery actions on loans:
11.4. You appoint the Security Holder to act as agent to hold the Security in 
connection with any Loan. You are not entitled to, and will not seek to, take any 
action or commence any proceedings against any Borrower or Guarantor in your own 
name. Only the Security Holder is entitled to take any action or proceedings. You 
authorise the Security Holder to exercise the rights, powers, authorities and 
discretions specially given to the Security Holder under or in connection with any 
Security Document, together with all other incidental rights, powers, authorities and 
discretions.
[]
13.6. We, the Security Agent or the Security Holder may take such steps as we 
consider necessary or desirable in our absolute discretion to collect the outstanding 
debt including, without limitation, pursuing Guarantors, enforcing Security, assigning 
the debt to a debt purchaser, and commencing formal legal action or insolvency 
processes through the courts.
Ive also taken into account the wider regulatory obligations on Funding Circle. Funding 
Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The relevant 
rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs 
Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the 
overarching requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 
1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm. The Principles 
themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The most relevant principles here are: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
Loan A
I understand Miss E believes Funding Circle should have taken alternative action in terms of 
the recovery for Loan A. Specifically, that it ought to have secured a VCO against the 
personal guarantors property. Whilst I can appreciate why Miss E thinks this would be 
beneficial; I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Funding Circle not to take this 
action. I say this as Funding Circle was under the impression that the sale process was 
ongoing, and it didnt want to take any action which would jeopardise this. Im satisfied 
Funding Circle pro-actively pursued the personal guarantor and it requested their solicitor's 
undertaking on several occasions. As Ive explained above, Funding Circle had a regulatory 
obligation to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly and this included Company A (and its personal guarantor) as well as Miss E. I think Funding Circle 
was trying to treat both parties fairly by exploring the option of the personal guarantor selling 
their property to pay back investors.  
Miss E has made the point regarding it being Funding Circle itself that said it would secure a 
VCO. I believe the update she has referred to is the 20 December 2017 update for Loan A 
which explained the following:
Negotiations have begun regarding large repayment upon sale of property and a 
voluntary charge as security in the interim.
Whilst I agree that this indicated that Funding Circle might look to secure a VCO, no 
guarantees were made. As explained above, Funding Circle had discretion as to what 
recovery action it took, and Im satisfied its decision not to secure a VCO was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Loan B 
Miss Es complaint in respect to Loan B is similar to that of Loan A  Funding Circle should 
have taken the action it said it would. Funding Circle has provided copies of emails it sent to 
the personal guarantor in November and December 2020 requesting that they complete an 
income and expenditure form to enable it to review the repayment plan. Ive also seen a 
copy of the personal guarantors response in which they explain that the agreement has 
been assigned to another company and a term payment agreed. I understand the debt was 
sold to a third party in June 2021 and that Funding Circle made Miss E aware of this though 
its updates. However, its not clear if this is the assignment which the personal guarantor is 
referring to in their email. Regardless, its clear that Funding Circle did make attempts to 
review the repayment plan as it said it would. And I cant say with any certainty whether it 
would have made a difference to the level of monthly repayments if Funding Circle had 
conducted these reviews more frequently. I understand Miss E feels there was publicly 
available information which suggests the personal guarantor could afford to pay more but, as 
Ive explained previously, Funding Circle had the discretion as to what recovery action it 
took, which includes accepting a repayment plan on a basis it feels is fair to both investors 
and the borrower/personal guarantor. 
Loan C
I can understand Miss Es concerns regarding this loan, considering how quickly payment 
issues began. However, Ive not seen anything that suggests Funding Circle knew or to have 
known that there was anything inherently wrong with offering the loan to investors. Funding 
Circle has explained that the loan was subject to a full review in which a full holistic 
assessment of the various documents and credit reports obtained during the application was 
conducted. 
Funding Circle has provided copies of these documents which included:
Business credit reports
Credit searches for the personal guarantor
Company C bank statements
Full company accounts for year-end 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017
Funding Circles investor terms explained that its able to rely upon such documents 
provided to it:11.10. We, the Security Agent and the Security Holder may rely on any 
representation, notice or document believed by us or it to be genuine, correct and 
appropriately authorised and any statement made by a director, authorised signatory 
or employee of any person regarding any matters which may reasonably be assumed 
to be within their knowledge or power to verify.
I understand Miss E has referred to there being existing debt which wasnt disclosed to 
Funding Circle and wasnt included in the promotional material for loan. I think its important 
to first note that as Miss E didnt select the loan, the promotional material had no bearing on 
her decision to invest. I acknowledge that the statements of affairs document does list there 
being existing debt in the region of £235,000, so the question is whether Funding Circle 
ought to have known about this before allowing investors to lend to Company C. Having 
looked at the documents provided as part of Funding Circles financial checks on Company 
C, I can confirm there is no mention of this outstanding debt. As such, I dont think Funding 
Circle couldve known about this debt. There was no record of this debt filed on the 
Companies House website until the statement of affairs document was listed, but this was 
after the loan was approved on Funding Circles platform. Its also not clear what all of the 
debt is in relation to and when it was incurred. 
I understand Miss E says this is evidence of fraudulent activity by Company C and says 
Funding Circle should have reported this to the relevant authorities. Its not my role to 
determine if there has been any fraudulent activity, rather its to determine whether Funding 
Circle has acted fairly and having done so Im satisfied it has. 
Funding Circle said the following in its loan comment update in May 2018:
"This loan has been downgraded as we have received notice that the borrower has
taken steps to place the company into liquidation. We are conducting our internal
investigations as to the early failure and are in the process of contact the guarantor to
ascertain their position."
Funding Circle has explained that it found no breaches in the application process. Part of 
this process included obtaining identification documents verified by a solicitor and proof 
address for the personal guarantor, as well as confirming there were no CIFAS warnings on 
the credit report it obtained for them. It said it paid the loan into Company Cs genuine
bank account and the contact details provided appeared genuine. As such, I cant find any 
failings in Funding Circles loan application process. 
I empathise with Miss E as its unfortunate that Funding Circle has been unable to 
successfully reach out to the personal guarantor for recovery of the money but Im satisfied 
Funding Circle has made reasonable attempts to do so and has taken reasonable action 
against Company C and the personal guarantor. 
Loan D
Funding Circle provided a loan update in June 2017 explaining that Company D was 
experiencing a severe cash flow situation and said it was in discussions about next steps. 
This was followed up with another update in July 2017 in which it explained that the decision 
had been made to default the loan in order to protect investors as Company D was unable to 
service the loan as per the agreement. The update also explained that liability of the 
personal guarantors would be crystalised and it would allow Funding Circle to commence 
legal proceedings against them should they become unresponsive. I understand that legal 
proceedings werent pursued immediately as a repayment plan was agreed with the 
personal guarantors in September 2017. Considering the detail provided in the updates, its clear that the effect of the default was that 
the liability for the repayments of the loan transferred to the personal guarantors. Clearly, 
there are advantages to pursuing the personal guarantor rather than taking legal action 
against Company D, such as avoiding unnecessary legal costs. I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Funding Circle to take this action, especially considering Funding Circle 
had concerns around Company Ds financial circumstances at that time. As such, it was 
unclear whether taking legal action against Company D would result in recuperating money 
for investors. 
Furthermore, the repayment plan was agreed with the personal guarantors and not 
Company D. So whilst I appreciate Miss E has identified that Company Ds assets had 
increased since the default, the relevant considerations are the affordability of the personal 
guarantors and not that of Company D. As the investigator explained, Funding Circle made 
numerous attempts to review the personal guarantors circumstances and I dont think it 
would be fair to hold it responsible for the personal guarantors unresponsiveness. 
Funding Circle has explained that it considered the merits of commencing litigation against 
the personal guarantors when it failed to respond in order to enforce recovery of the debt, 
but it said it  would require the termination of the current repayment plan. And this would 
result in a cessation of repayments to investors for a prolonged period whilst legal 
proceedings were in process. So I think Funding Circles decision to allow the current 
repayment plan to continue whilst seeking to re-establish negotiations with the personal 
guarantors was fair and reasonable as it also avoided the need to incur legal costs. 
Loan E and Loan F
Id like to start by explaining that its not within my powers to determine whether Company E 
and Company F should have been allowed to be struck off due to it having outstanding debt. 
Instead, my decision focuses on whether it was fair for Funding Circle not to have objected 
to the strike offs. 
I understand that Miss E thinks Funding Circle should have done more to prevent Company 
E and Company F from being voluntarily struck off. Funding Circle has explained that it 
wouldnt normally receive notification of an application to strike off. Im unable to confirm 
whether thats the definitely the case, but Funding Circle has explained that even if it had 
become aware, it would need to decide whether there was any benefit in objecting. I think it's 
fair for Funding Circle to consider this before taking any such action. 
Looking at the timeline of events, I dont think Funding Circles actions were unfair or 
unreasonable. I say this as Loan E had already defaulted in October 2017 when Company E 
had made an application to strike off in August 2018 and Funding Circle had already began 
pursuing the personal guarantor for the outstanding repayments. Similarly, Loan F had 
already defaulted in December 2018 when Company F applied to be struck off in January 
2019 and Funding Circle had already began pursuing the personal guarantor for the 
outstanding repayments. With this in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable for Funding 
Circle not to object to the strike off and I agree with the investigators findings that preventing 
the strike offs is unlikely to have improved Miss Es chances of recovery on the loans. 
Ive considered Miss Es comments regarding Company Fs accounts which suggested it had 
considerable assets available. However, the accounts shes referred to where from 
December 2017, almost a year before Company F defaulted on the loan. As such, I dont 
think this is sufficient evidence to suggest Company F was in a position to repay the loan 
and Im satisfied Funding Circles decision to pursue the personal guarantor was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Lack of updates
Funding Circle has acknowledged that it didnt regularly update the loan comments on each 
of Miss Es loans. It's clear Miss E has had to proactively contact Funding Circle to 
understand what progress it had made with its recovery action on the loans. And so I 
appreciate this would have caused her some concern and worry about what was happening 
with her investments. However, Ive also considered that Funding Circle had made her 
aware that the loans had defaulted and so she wouldve been aware that her investment 
may not be repaid in full. Im also satisfied Miss E ought to have been aware of the high-risk 
nature of investing in crowdfunding as Funding Circle makes this risk clear throughout its 
promotion of its accounts and warns investors that their capital is at risk. So taking all this 
into account, Im satisfied that Funding Circles offer of £150 is a fair level of compensation 
for the inconvenience and worry caused by its lack of updates to Miss E across all six loans 
that Ive considered. 
Putting things right
I think Funding Circle should pay Miss E £150, if it hasnt already, in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her as she had to chase Funding Circle for updates on 
the recovery action it was taking across the loans Ive considered above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Funding Circle Ltd to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman