DRN-3744452
The complaint
X complains that Mercer Limited (Mercer) wont assist in a request to recover tax relief on 
pension contributions paid into his Self-Invested Pension Plan (SIPP). He would like Mercer 
to assist in the tax claim.  
What happened
X was one of three Partners in a business. The Partners opened SIPPs with Mercers 
predecessor in 2004, paying contributions personally. In 2005 the Partners incorporated their 
business and traded as a limited company. Their financial adviser, now called Argyle, 
contacted Mercer, and arranged for a regular contribution of £1,000 per month to be paid for 
each of them, beginning in 2006. Whilst the contributions were paid through the businesss 
bank account X says these were personal contributions and that his own and the companys 
subsequent tax reporting was on this basis. He and his co-directors also continued to pay 
contributions from time to time from their personal bank accounts.  
Subsequently Xs business changed accountant, who queried the tax treatment of the 
contributions being paid from the business bank account. The accountant said the 
contributions had been recorded as employer contributions by Mercer. But these had been 
reported as personal contributions on Xs tax returns with no corporation tax deduction 
claimed by the business. It said this should be corrected by either amending both business 
and personal tax reporting  which would be complex and time consuming, or by liaising with 
Mercer to amend the reporting of the contributions with HMRC.
X says that around £48,000 in basic rate tax relief on the regular contributions hadnt been 
claimed back from HMRC over a 14 to 15-year period. He says that the plan had been 
transferred to another provider but most of the contributions had been paid when the 
pension was with Mercer. X says the new provider was willing to contact HMRC to submit 
amended returns to claim the tax relief. But when Argyle asked Mercer to do the same in 
February 2020, it refused. 
A complaint was raised about this, which Mercer rejected. It said it hadnt made an error and 
had set the contributions up as requested by Argyle. It said it had confirmed details of the 
contributions to Argyle in 2016 and no action had been taken. It said because it hadnt made 
an error it wasnt prepared to submit amended returns to HMRC. And in any case, it could 
only submit amendments going back six tax years. 
X referred his complaint to our service. He said wasnt seeking to blame Mercer for the error 
in setting up the contributions. But only it could seek the tax reclaim and it had been 
unhelpful and unreasonable in refusing to help despite him offering to meet its reasonable 
administration costs in doing so. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
Our investigator said Mercer hadnt been providing X with financial advice and he didnt think 
it had made an error over the contributions. So, he couldnt ask it to take action to correct a 
mistake it didnt cause. He said, unsurprisingly, full records werent available due to the 
length of time involved. But what evidence there was, indicated that the contributions had 
been set up by Mercer as instructed. And he said Mercer had sent annual statements to both 
X and Argyle that clearly showed the contributions were recorded as being made by the 
employer and no tax relief was being reclaimed on them. 
As X doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate businesses, 
which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell Mercer or other 
businesses to change administrative procedures or impose sanctions on it even if I think 
there have been failings. What I can consider is whether a businesss mistakes caused 
someone a financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience and, if so, what the business 
needs to do to put things right. 
I understand Xs frustration here, particularly as he is willing to meet Mercers charges for the 
work involved. And, as he says only it can submit the necessary request with HMRC. But I 
havent seen any evidence that it made an error in setting up the contributions in the manner 
they were. 
Payments were being paid from Xs company each month by standing order and from the 
annual statements its clear these were recorded as employer contributions and no tax relief 
was being claimed by Mercer from HMRC. X also, on occasion, paid contributions from his 
personal bank account. Emails between Argyle and Mercer identified these as personal 
contributions, being paid net of basic rate income tax, and indicate that Mercer claimed tax 
relief from HMRC on these as it should have done. So, if there was an error with the tax 
treatment of the contributions it wasnt disguised in any way. 
Mercers records dont contain a copy of any application form setting up the regular 
contributions. So, there is no record of what Xs own instructions were in respect of this. But 
there is a file note of 30 August 2005 of a call from Argyle. This refers to setting up an ER 
(short for Employer) contribution for X and his colleagues. It says that bank account details 
needed to be confirmed to do this. Mercer emails these details the same day and says:
Their employers will need this information in order to set up standing orders for 
those who wish to pay employer contributions into their individual SIPP policies. 
There isnt any further information but from the evidence available it does seem Mercer set 
up the contributions as Argyle appears to have instructed. Which Mercer confirmed back to it 
by email. And as noted, that the contributions had been set up in this manner, was clear 
from the annual statements issued subsequently. Therefore, I dont think Mercer has made 
an error and it isnt responsible for any tax consequences if it wasnt Xs intention to set up 
employer contributions. 
And because Mercer hasnt made an error it isnt reasonable for me to tell it to attempt to 
claim the tax relief if it isnt prepared to do so. It is unfortunate for X that Mercer wont help 
here, but I cant say it is acting unfairly or unreasonably because like any business, Mercer 
can choose what work it is prepared to undertake. Whilst I do not uphold this complaint about Mercer it might be appropriate for X to consider 
raising his concerns about what has happened with others if he has not already done so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman