DRN-2401635
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Zenith Insurance plc provided conflicting information about how 
many years No Claims Discount (NCD) hed earned under his motor insurance policy when 
he switched to a new insurer. 
What happened
Mr C bought a motor insurance policy with Zenith in 2016. Mr C had nine years NCD. 
At renewal in 2019, Mr C bought a policy with another insurer and so didnt renew with 
Zenith. Mr C said Zenith provided conflicting information about how many years NCD he 
had. When a broker for the new policy called, Zenith said Mr C had 10 years NCD. But the 
broker for this policy then sent Mr C a letter confirming he had 12 years. 
Mr C said his new insurer asked him for a number of verification documents due to the 
discrepancy and this caused him distress and inconvenience. And hes concerned that he 
may have overpaid for his premium with Zenith over the years. He doesnt think Zenith made 
it clear that it capped his NCD at nine years. 
Our investigator thought Zenith had acted reasonably. He found that Zenith applied the 
same discount for nine or more years and this was explained in the policy document. So he 
thought Mr C had the option to shop around if he was unhappy with Zeniths policy.
The investigator said he couldnt safely conclude that Mr Cs new insurer wouldnt have 
asked for verification documents in any event, and that it was reasonable to expect some 
potential inconvenience in setting up a policy with a new insurer for this reason.
He explained that the broker  Zenith Direct  had confirmed Mr Cs NCD at 12 years. So he 
didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C didnt agree. Ive addressed his points in my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zenith Insurance plc underwrote Mr Cs policy from 2016 until it lapsed in 2019. Mr C bought 
his policy through a broker via an online comparison website. The broker was Zenith Direct. 
There was a discrepancy in the information provided to Mr C when he bought a policy 
elsewhere: Zenith says it told Mr Cs new broker that he had 10 years NCD when it called. 
However, the broker provided Mr C with a letter confirming his NCD at 12 years. 
Mr Cs concerns are that he may have overpaid for his insurance while with Zenith from 
2016 to 2019. And he says his new insurer asked for a number of verification documents 
which he found distressing to have to provide. 
I think its important for me to say that an insurer or broker is entitled to ask for reasonable 
documentation to verify a customer. In this case, the insurer requesting this from Mr C 
wasnt Zenith. So while I understand how unhappy Mr C is with their request, it isnt 
something I can consider when looking at the actions of Zenith. Mr C says it was the 
discrepancy in the NCD information that triggered the new insurers request for verification 
documents. He says they asked him for his driving licence, photos of the vehicle and his 
employment history. But I cant say that Zenith is responsible for the new insurers decision 
to ask Mr C for these documents. If Mr C believes the new insurers requests for information 
was unreasonable, he can raise a complaint about that with them.
Most insurers  if not all  cap NCD at nine years. And many cap NCD at five years. This 
means that an insurer provides a discount up to the number of claim free years listed. So 
anything above that number will not gain any more of a discount.
Ive had a look at Mr Cs policy with Zenith and I can see it provided a table showing the 
level of discount it provided depending on the number of years NCD he had. 
The table shows that it provided the same level of discount for nine years or more NCD. So 
even if Mr C had more than nine years NCD, the discount wouldnt be any greater and 
therefore the premium he paid Zenith wasnt affected. So Im satisfied that while Mr C held a 
policy with Zenith, the NCD discount applied was in line with the policy and he wasnt 
overcharged for his premium.
When Mr C bought a policy elsewhere, he says Zenith told him he had nine years NCD, 
when in fact he had 12. He says this was misleading of Zenith. And he says Zenith then 
caused further confusion by telling his broker he had 10 years in January 2020.
Zenith says that the broker, Zenith Direct confirmed Mr C had 12 years NCD as Mr C 
changed insurers. If he had stayed with Zenith, it would have correctly stated his NCD at 
nine years  as this is the maximum number of years it provides a discount for.
I think some confusion may have been caused by the discrepancy in quoting nine and 10 
years NCD to Mr C and his broker. And I understand Mr C feels insurers should quote the 
number of years a customer has been claim free at renewal. But Zenith is entitled to limit the 
number of years for NCD purposes it is willing to accept.
I understand Mr C will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Zenith applied the 
correct NCD to Mr Cs policy and Mr C wasnt overcharged for the premium he paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman