DRN-3766248
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his claim for storm damage 
under his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C bought his buildings and contents insurance policy to provide cover from the date he 
moved into his new home which was towards the end of November 2021. He stored much of 
his property in the external garage until he was ready to unpack.
A few weeks later, Mr C went into the garage to find that his belongings had been damaged 
by water ingress. He believed the ingress was caused by a named storm lifting the garage 
roof a day or two after he moved in. Mr C claimed under his policy. 
UKI appointed a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor reported that the garage 
showed signs of general wear and tear and concluded that the water ingress was due to pre-
existing damage, which the storm had simply highlighted. UKI declined Mr Cs claim 
because it couldnt find any evidence of a storm around the time he said the damage was 
caused, and because the damage pre-dated the policy. 
Mr C complained to UKI, which is summarised as follows:
Mr C wanted to see evidence of the pre-existing damage that UKI relied on.
He provided evidence of a storm on the date he said the damage happened.
UKI relied on marketing photos of the garage roof taken from a different side to the 
damage, but rejected Mr Cs offer to provide a copy of the homebuyers survey 
because it pre-dated the policy.
UKI ignored Mr Cs comments about the dry timbers, but relied on the wet and 
warped chip board as evidence of pre-existing damage.
He had to chase updates on his claim, experienced poor customer service, and felt 
UKI ignored his comments about the damage.
UKI sent its final response to Mr C in which it acknowledged the poor customer service and 
paid £50 by way of apology. However, UKI said there was no evidence of a storm; the 
surveyors report confirmed that the damage was pre-existing, and the general damage and 
old repairs were visible on the marketing documents. UKI also confirmed it wouldnt take into 
account Mr Cs homebuyers survey because it was evidence from before policy inception.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service, but our investigator thought UKI had fairly 
declined the claim. He said UKIs report showed the garage was in general disrepair; the 
policy didnt provide cover for ongoing wear and tear; the roof was replaced without an 
expert report to disprove UKIs findings, and it was more likely than not that the storm 
highlighted existing damage.
Mr C didnt agree. He felt hed been denied the opportunity to provide evidence in support of 
his claim because UKI rejected his offer regarding the homebuyers survey, and his own 
roofer hadnt been asked for evidence. Mr C also said the issue of the undamaged beams 
had been overlooked, and he thought that supported his claim that the roof damage was 
recent and storm related. Mr C asked for reconsideration of his complaint, commenting again 
on the issues which he thought supported his claim.
To resolve his complaint, Mr C would like UKI to accept his claim, reimburse the repair costs, 
cover the cost of his damaged belongings, and treat his subsequent claims for additional 
damage while waiting for repairs as a single storm damage claim.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mr C will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
My role is to decide whether Mr Cs complaint that UKI unfairly declined his claim is 
supported by the evidence. 
UKI declined Mr Cs claim for the following reasons:
There was no evidence of a storm.
Its surveyor reported that the damage pre-dated the policy.
Was there a storm?
UKI said there was no evidence of a storm around the time Mr C said his roof wouldve been 
damaged. However, Ive considered reliable online weather reports which confirm the 
presence of a named storm. Therefore, Im satisfied there was a storm.
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Mr C said the storm mustve lifted the garage roof, allowing water ingress. UKIs surveyor 
confirmed there was evidence that the roof had lifted in places. Im satisfied that a flat roof 
structure lifting in high winds is something that might be seen in a storm, so Ill accept that 
the damage was typical of that caused by a storm.
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
Mr C didnt identify the water ingress until a few weeks after the storm, but he believes the 
storm caused the garage roof to lift, allowing water to get in and damage his belongings. UKI 
said theres no evidence that the roof was in a good condition before the storm, and its 
surveyor said the damage pre-dated the policy.
Ive looked at the evidence provided by both Mr C and UKI and Im persuaded that UKI 
reasonably concluded that the damage was pre-existing. Ive relied on the following 
evidence to reach this decision:
UKIs expert reported that the damage was pre-existing, and the photos support that 
view. Given that Mr C said the damage was caused by a storm just a couple of days 
after he moved in, and he didnt identify the damage until some weeks later, I cant 
reasonably say that the damage mustve been caused by the storm. Theres no 
evidence to support what Mr C says about the garage roof being in a good state of repair around that time. The evidence does, however, show that the garage as a 
whole was in a poor state of repair. Therefore, I think its reasonable to conclude that 
the roof was more likely than not in a similar state of repair to that seen on the walls.
Photos of the garage on marketing literature, referred to by UKI, show the garage to 
be in a state of general disrepair. I agree with Mr C that UKI cant expect to rely on 
this evidence, yet exclude his homebuyers report from consideration, citing that it 
shows the garage condition prior to policy inception. The marketing literature does 
the same. Therefore, Ive considered the homebuyers survey when reaching my 
decision.
Mr C has asked me not to share the homebuyers survey, but I will comment on the content 
to explain my decision.
The survey rated the garage as Not Inspected. While the surveyor did comment on 
the wall disrepair, no comment was made at all about the roof. Mr C said that 
indicated there were no issues to report, but I disagree. The report clearly states that 
it is a visual inspection only, and roofs are inspected from ground level. This is the 
same level of inspection carried out by UKIs surveyor. Further, the roof structure is 
only inspected from inside if there is access. 
Based on Mr Cs homebuyers survey, the garage was showing signs of general wear 
and tear and was in needed of repairs. Therefore, I cant fairly conclude that it 
supports Mr Cs claim that the garage roof was watertight when he bought the 
property.
The policy doesnt provide cover for damage which results from wear and tear or 
gradually operating causes. Therefore, Im also persuaded that UKI fairly declined 
the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
After our investigator issued his view on the matter, Mr C got a response to some questions 
asked of his roofer. Ive considered that response, but it doesnt persuade me that the roof 
was in good condition. Although the roofer said the roof was in a good state of repair, I note 
he said there was no evidence of previous repairs. Looking at the aerial photos of Mr Cs 
garage roof, I find that UKIs surveyor provided a more persuasive argument that there was 
evidence of previous repairs. For context, rectangular patches of the roof look darker as 
though sheeting has been replaced or coated, and theres an appearance of a joint covering 
having been removed, leaving a residue. To be clear, Im not saying these things have 
happened  just that I can see why the patchy looking roof appears to show signs of 
previous repairs.
Based on this, I cant reasonably rely on Mr Cs roofers evidence as an accurate account of 
the state of the roof. I think thats understandable given the passage of time from completion 
of the work to the report request, and without photos or a report from the time of repairs to 
rely on.
Overall, Im satisfied that UKI relied on its surveyors report to decline Mr Cs claim fairly and 
reasonably in line with the policy. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that Mr C has 
demonstrated his garage was watertight before the storm, or that a storm was the main 
cause of the damage which allowed the water ingress. Given that Mr C cant be certain when 
the water damage happened, and he hasnt commented on noticing any outward signs of 
storm damage until he went into his garage, Im satisfied that UKI fairly declined the claim in 
line with the policy for the reasons it gave. I wont be asking UKI to do any more.Ive noted UKIs £50 payment to Mr C in recognition of the service shortfall he encountered. 
Having considered the amount, and based on awards made in similar circumstances, Im 
satisfied that UKIs payment was reasonable. I wont be asking UKI to increase the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman