DRN-3161879
The complaint
Mr O complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
following his involvement in an accident. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr O was reversing from a parking space at a filling station when he 
became involved in a collision with another vehicle. He contacted the filling station and was 
told CCTV footage had been recorded. He says the person he spoke to remarked on the 
excessive speed of the third-party vehicle.  
Mr O contacted Advantage to report the incident. He told it CCTV footage was available and 
there was a potential witness. Later in October Advantage informed Mr O the third-party 
claim had been met in full. He discovered the CCTV footage hadnt been obtained, and the 
witness hadnt been contacted. Mr O made a complaint raising his concerns with the 
companys handling of the matter. 
Advantage says it contacted the filling station in November 2020, but no response was 
received, Mr O managed to obtain a copy of the footage in February 2021 and provided this 
to the company via email. 
Advantage acknowledged its failure to request a copy of the CCTV footage initially. It paid 
him £100 in compensation for this. The company said it would review the footage when 
received but doesnt guarantee this will alter its liability decision. Mr O says he didnt receive 
a further response. He then referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint. He thought Advantages failure to obtain the 
CCTV footage meant it hadnt considered the claim properly. The company disputed this 
view, saying there was enough information to support its liability decision. 
A copy of the CCTV footage was subsequently made available for it to review. It says it had 
no record of receiving this earlier. Based on the footage it concluded the liability decision 
should stand. Our investigator was satisfied that having considered this evidence the 
company had now considered the circumstances of the collision appropriately. Although he 
thought the company was fair to compensate Mr O for its failure to obtain the footage 
initially. He decided not to uphold the complaint.  
Mr O disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. It has 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Its important to clarify that my remit here is to consider whether Advantage handled this 
matter in a fair and reasonable manner. Its not to decide who was at fault for the accident 
Mr O was involved in. 
When Mr O contacted Advantage to report the incident, he advised that CCTV footage was 
available. He also explained a member of staff at the filling station was a potential witness. 
For a fair and reasonable assessment of liability to take place, its reasonable to expect 
consideration of this information to occur. Or at the very least for an attempt to be made to 
obtain it.
Advantage acknowledges it did nothing to obtain this information prior to making its liability 
decision. It says it should have contacted the filling station. And because of this failure it 
apologised to Mr O and paid £100 compensation for any stress and inconvenience this 
caused.
Although the company did request the CCTV footage in November 2020. It received no 
response. I note Mr O says he obtained the footage himself and sent this to Advantage in 
February 2021. I dont dispute he did this. However, the company says it didnt have sight of 
this information until September 2021 after our investigation began.
Due to technical difficulties it hasnt been possible for our service to view the CCTV footage. 
However, Im satisfied this has now been considered by Advantage. Having reviewed the 
footage, the company says:
As you can see, Mr O reverses into the third party, with no evidence of fault to the third 
party. The third party is proceeding across the forecourt correct [sic] and does not display 
and [sic] signs of reckless driving.  
From this Im satisfied Advantage has now considered all relevant evidence, to make a 
reasoned decision on liability. This shouldve been considered sooner as its possible a 
different outcome couldve resulted. However, the company has now seen the footage and 
maintained its original decision. 
Advantage didnt contact the filling station, before it decided to accept and pay the third-party 
claim. I can understand why this caused Mr O frustration and resulted in more work for him 
when obtaining this evidence and supplying a copy. However, the company has apologised 
and paid £100 in compensation for this, which I think is fair. 
In summary, I dont think Advantage has been unfair in its consideration of liability for the 
collision Mr O was involved in. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve his 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman