DRN-3973812
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC has refused to refund all the money she lost after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mrs M fell victim to an impersonation/safe account scam in early 2021. Her money was 
moved between various accounts and she ended up losing more than £150,000 from the 
Metro account, which was set up as part of the scam.
Metro refunded two debit card payments totalling £1,300. But it refused to refund the 
£151,507 worth of bank transfers. So, with her nephews help, Mrs M referred a 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the scammer had made all of the payments from Mrs Ms 
account without her authority and she hadnt been negligent with her security 
information. So he recommended that Metro should refund all of the transfers with the 
exception of the first one (which was for £2). Metro didnt reply to the investigators view.
I told Metro earlier this month that I thought it was more likely than not Mrs M had 
authorised the payments and Metro ought to have reimbursed her under the provisions 
of the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the Code). But Metro disagreed and said 
Mrs M wasnt aware, and didnt authorise, the disputed payments. It said the Code does 
not apply in this case and responsibility for Mrs Ms losses should rest with the bank from 
which money was sent to her Metro account
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I still think Metro should reimburse the majority of Mrs Ms losses, for much 
the same reasons that Ive previously explained. 
As Ive already said to Metro, this has been a somewhat challenging case to decide because 
Mrs M seems quite confused about what happened and doesnt seem to remember events 
occurring in the way that her other banks and Metros evidence suggests. I dont think 
Mrs M is being deliberately difficult or dishonest. I think the scammer managed to convince 
her they were genuinely trying to help and the scam continued for such a long period of time, 
involving lots of different financial service providers that things have become confused in 
Mrs Ms memory. I also note Mrs M has suffered serious ill-health since these events 
transpired and her nephew (who has been acting as her representative) says she is now 
experiencing some memory problems. 
Should Metro Bank be held liable for the losses Mrs M has suffered?
Its not unusual these days to see this type of multi-step fraud where the scammer 
persuades the victim to send money between accounts held in their names with other banks 
before sending it on to an account that the scammer controls and/or has access to. This 
technique is a deliberate one that scammers employ to help evade the banks fraud 
detection and prevention systems.
In this case, I think the evidence suggests that Mrs M was persuaded either to set up a new 
account with Metro herself, or to share sufficient details and supporting documents with the 
scammer which allowed them to set it up. Money was then moved from an account she held 
with another bank to the Metro account and on to the scammers. Theres been no 
suggestion that Mrs M held accounts with the cryptocurrency platforms to which the transfers 
from her Metro account were made. 
Metro says Mrs M didnt set up the Metro account or authorise any of the subsequent bank 
transfers. Its referred to the phone calls she made when she reported the scam and its 
records which show that AnyDesk was in operation at the time the transfers were made. But 
Ive listened to the call recordings and think its clear Mrs M is somewhat confused about 
exactly what has happened and her confusion remains, to this day. She does say that she 
has no knowledge of the Metro account and didnt open it herself. But I think its more likely 
that not she has some awareness, at the time, that it was being opened as she had to 
provide a considerable amount of information about herself to enable it to be opened. Its 
also clear all of the documentation and the debit card relating to the account was sent to her 
at her home address. And one-time passcodes were sent to her mobile phone number 
relating to the transfers out of her account.
I accept Metros records indicate that AnyDesk was used. But I think that suggests the 
scammer was using this to oversee or take control while Mrs M was logged on to her own 
computer and, I think its safe to assume, watching (and, thereby, authorising) what was 
going on. I have no doubt she did so thinking the person who was operating AnyDesk was 
genuinely trying to help protect her money. 
If the scammer wasnt involving Mrs M in this way then they need not have used AnyDesk at 
all. Mrs M had no relationship with Metro prior to setting up this account  that and the 
subsequent payments in and out were all completed as part of this scam. So Metro had no 
prior knowledge of Mrs M with which to compare the scammers activity for fraud detection 
and prevention purposes. So the scammer could, just as easily  if not more easily  have 
simply set up the account and undertaken the transfers from their own computer, without 
using AnyDesk.
In all the circumstances, I think Mrs M authorised the disputed payments into and then out of 
the Metro account. 
With the above in mind, Mrs M money wasnt yet lost when it left her account with her other 
bank. The loss occurred when it left the Metro account. So Im satisfied I can fairly consider 
a complaint against Metro with regards to what action it took, or ought to have taken, in 
relation to these transactions in line with Metros obligations to protect Mrs M and prevent 
fraud. 
Mrs M fell victim to a scam and the disputed payments were all sent from her UK sterling 
account to other UK sterling accounts not held in her name or under her control. As a result I 
remain satisfied that Metro ought to have considered the payments under the provisions of 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the Code).Should the disputed transactions be refunded?
I have already explained to Metro why I dont think it has done enough to establish that any 
of the exceptions to reimbursement that come under the Code apply in this case. I will repeat 
my findings here, for Mrs Ms benefit.
Very soon after Mrs Ms account was opened, large sums of money were paid in and fairly 
rapidly moved out to accounts held by cryptocurrency platforms and to another UK bank 
account. When the £3,000 payment on 23 February 2021 was attempted, I think Metro ought 
to have realised this type of activity was fairly typical of fraud  in other words it ought to 
have identified a fraud risk and intervened by giving effective warnings to Mrs M.
I cant see that Metro provided any warnings relating to any of the disputed payments. Ive 
seen the messages it sent with the one-time passcodes, but these dont mention the 
situation Mrs M found herself in  an impersonation/safe account scam which involved being 
advised to set up new payees and move her money around, including to cryptocurrency 
platforms, to protect it from fraud.
Mrs M was entirely caught up in the story fed to her by the scammers. And I think the 
scammers were able to convince her of their authority not least given her age, relatively poor 
understanding of technology and her ongoing isolation from friends and family due to the 
pandemic. Its arguable those circumstances made her vulnerable. Metro disagrees on that 
point. But I also dont think, given her particular circumstances, that Mrs M ought to have 
realised she should conduct any checks before complying with the scammers requests. In 
effect, I think she had a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person she 
was expecting to pay and the person or business with whom she transacted was legitimate. 
And, as I say, she wasnt given any effective warnings that she ignored.
Metro didnt engage with these findings so I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
previously reached. I think Metro should reimburse the £3,000 payment that left Mrs Ms 
account on 23 February 2021 and all subsequent transfers out. 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, I think Metro Bank PLC should:
Refund to Mrs M the disputed transactions totalling £151,505.
Add interest on the above refunds calculated at 8% simple per year from the date each 
individual payment was made to the date settlement is made.
If Metro considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest award, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC should settle this complaint as set out above.
Metro should settle the matter within 28 days of receiving notification of Mrs Ms acceptance 
of my final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman