DRN-3761090
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how MD Insurance Services Limited administered a building 
warranty policy, that it incorrectly cancelled the policy and that it failed to find a new provider 
to cover their property.
What happened
The following events led to this complaint:
Mr and Mrs H arranged a self-build warranty policy through MD Insurance Services, 
the warranty was to be granted upon successful completion of the property to the 
insurers required standards.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the build of the property was delayed, and MD 
Insurance Services was able to secure several extensions to the build date from the 
insurer.
In April 2021 Mrs H requested to be copied into any emails that were sent by MD 
Insurance Services as Mr Hs email address was unreliable.
Mr and Mrs H were given an extension to June 2021; however, the property wasnt 
fully completed, some snagging issues remained, and it still required sign off by the 
local authority. The surveyor working on behalf of the insurer let it know this and a 
further extension was provided to the start of September 2021. However, the email 
notifying Mr and Mrs H of this was only sent to Mr H.
MD Insurance Services did not hear from Mr and Mrs H and made attempts to 
contact them. However, due to no communication being received and the property 
still not having received the necessary sign off past the last build date extension, a 
decision was taken to cancel the warranty proposal.
Mr and Mrs H later got in touch with MD Insurance Services to say they had found 
the emails sent in Mr Hs spam folder and asked if the policy could be reinstated. MD 
Insurance Services asked for the outstanding information and approached the 
insurer. However, the insurer declined to reinstate.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy MD Insurance Services failed to send emails to Mrs H 
as had been previously requested. They felt if this had happened the cancellation of 
the warranty proposal would not have happened.
MD Insurance Services approached a different warranty provider and offered to 
initially pay half of the increased cost of the new policy as a gesture of goodwill. It 
later found the cost was quite significant and it couldnt honour this, but it did offer to 
pay a reduced amount towards the cost.
The proposed new warranty provider then realised oak had been included in the 
structure of the property, so it declined to provide cover. This was information that 
was known to MD Insurance Services when it approached the warranty provider, but 
it had neglected to update the proposal information. As such, it led Mr and Mrs H to 
believe it could secure a new warranty for them when in fact that never would have 
been the case.
Mr and Mrs H had to get an architect to provide a professional consultants certificate 
(PPC) for the property to enable them to secure a mortgage. They complain about 
MD Insurance Services actions, that they have been financially disadvantaged 
through increased costs for the PPC as opposed the original warranty and the 
mortgage they have since secured is now more expensive. Mr and Mrs H also 
complain about the stress and inconvenience the whole matter has caused them.
Our investigator let Mr and Mrs H know that she couldnt hold MD Insurance Services 
responsible for the decision to cancel the policy as that was the responsibility of the insurer 
of the policy. However, she did think its actions of not following Mrs Hs request to copy her 
in on emails and failing realise it would not be able to arrange a new policy would have 
caused them distress and inconvenience. The investigator thought MD Insurance Services 
should pay Mr and Mrs H £200 compensation to reflect this.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 30 September 2022. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
My first step here is to consider what activities I can hold MD Insurance Services 
responsible for. When it was administering the policy and providing extensions it was doing 
so on behalf of the insurer. So, when Mrs H asked it to copy her in on emails, she was 
corresponding with it at a time when it was acting for the insurer.
Similarly, later on when communicating about the further extension to September and 
chasing in information necessary to suit the insurers requirements to issue the warranty 
before the build date had elapsed, again it was doing so on behalf of the insurer. It was also 
acting for the insurer when processing the cancellation of the policy. As such, although Mr 
and Mrs H have my natural sympathy about the events which led to the warranty policy 
proposal being cancelled and the distress this caused, I cant consider them in this decision.
Should Mr and Mrs H be unhappy about how the policy was administered and cancelled they 
would need to raise those concerns with the insurer directly.
MD Insurance Services have admitted it made an error in not updating the proposal 
information correctly and noting the existence of oak within the build of Mr and Mrs Hs 
property. This meant it led Mr and Mrs H to incorrectly believe it would be able to source 
cover with an alternative insurer  it wouldnt have been able to do this as the insurers it 
placed business with wont provide cover for it. MD Insurance Services also acknowledged 
that it raised Mr and Mrs Hs expectation about the amount of money they would need to put 
forward to secure alternative cover, as it made them an offer as a gesture of goodwill that it 
wasnt later able to honour.
Mr and Mrs H have set out in detail how much this whole matter has impacted them and Ive 
no doubt the circumstances in which the initial warranty was cancelled would have been 
distressing for them. So, I think MD Insurance Services errors here compounded that 
distress and put them to further inconvenience providing information and entering into 
correspondence that was ultimately unnecessary. Im therefore intending to direct MD Insurance Services to pay Mr and Mrs H £400 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset 
their actions here caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision within the timeframe set out for 
responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new arguments or points have been put forward for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
So, for the same reasons as I have set out in my provisional decision, I think MD Insurance 
Services errors caused Mr and Mrs H trouble and upset and it should pay them £400 
compensation to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against MD Insurance Services 
Limited. I direct it to pay Mr and Mrs H £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman