DRN-3295758
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim made against her buildings 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs V said following a storm in February 2020 the boundary wall to the rear of her property 
collapsed. Mrs V said her garden sloped and the collapse of the wall blocked the footpath 
behind the wall.
Mrs V said she was first advised to seek legal advice about the ownership of the collapsed 
wall. But was later told to claim for the damage on her buildings insurance. Mrs V made a 
claim on her policy and Aviva arranged for the damage to be inspected by a structural 
engineer. Aviva declined her claim after considering the structural engineers report, they 
said the damage wasnt a single event  storm damage. They said the damage was caused 
by a gradual deterioration, excluded under her policy. Mrs V complained to Aviva.
Aviva said while storm damage was covered under Mrs Vs policy, but the damage to the 
wall was considered to have happened over time. The pictures of the wall were considered, 
and these showed evidence that the wall was bowed and cracked.
Mrs V wasnt happy with Avivas response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said he hadnt seen evidence of a one-off event causing the damage to the 
wall. And said that Aviva had applied the policy terms correctly.
Mrs V didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As with all insurance, Mrs Vs policy includes conditions about what is and isnt covered. 
Mrs V has claimed for damage to a boundary wall. But there are two walls at the rear of 
Mrs Vs  garden. One that I think is the boundary wall and the other a retaining wall that is of 
a more recent construction. The retaining wall is a mix of stone, brick and concrete block. 
The wall had collapsed into the footpath at the rear of the property. Mrs V in her claim to 
Aviva said this was caused by a storm.
When deciding on whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mrs Vs claim, I 
need to determine whether theyve applied the terms of the policy correctly.
Mrs V claimed the collapse was due to storm damage which is covered under the policy 
terms. But I can see there is also an exclusion under the policy terms for storm damage for 
when the damage has happened gradually.  
When considering a storm damage complaint, Id look at whether there were storm 
conditions at the time, is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically causes and 
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage.
storm conditions at the time
Mrs V is unsure of the exact date when the wall was damaged but has said that Storm 
Dennis happened around the time in  February 2020. I can see that Storm Dennis happened 
between 13 and 19 February 2020. With a peak wind gust of 70 miles per hour on 16 
February 2020. Id consider a storm to be more than 47 miles per hour, so I think storm 
conditions did happen around the time Mrs V said the wall collapsed.
is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically causes and were the storm 
conditions the main cause of the damage.
Typical damage caused by a storm can for example include the dislodging of brickwork, 
broken branches, tiles lifting. So, Ive considered the damage caused to both the walls 
detailed in the structural engineers report.
The report shows the boundary wall is at the rear of Mrs Vs garden at the top of an 
embankment and says that it was difficult to see the boundary wall behind the collapsed 
retaining wall. The report says the boundary wall turns at the bottom of the garden with parts 
of the wall hidden from view as its obscured by a hedge. The report also says it appears to 
be a DIY stone wall. From the pictures I can see the section where the retaining wall 
collapsed, the stone boundary wall is visible but looks to be in a state of disrepair. The report 
says the appearance indicates that the newer retaining wall had undermined the original 
boundary wall. And I think given its situation and the impact of the new wall, its probable the 
wall had been deteriorating for some time hidden from view.  So, from what I can see I dont 
think the damage is typical of that caused by a storm, and that the storm conditions werent 
the main cause of the damage as this was more likely from a gradual decline.
The reports says that the collapsed section is from the newer retaining wall. And adds it is 
surprising that it has lasted as long as it has. The wall has increased the retained height 
from one metre to three metres, and the construction of the new wall was very thin and  
inadequate for the three-metre level. The report also says the remaining section of the 
newer wall is bowed and has cracks. So  again, I dont think the damage to this wall is 
typically storm damage. From the report the wall clearly wasnt fit for purpose as it was too 
thin and its design wasnt adequate. So, I dont think the storm conditions was the main 
cause of the damage to this wall.
Ive also considered the rest of Mrs Vs policy to understand if there were other relevant
areas of the policy she could claim under for her collapsed wall and subsequent costs she 
may have incurred for the blockage of the footpath caused by the collapsing wall. I have 
considered flooding, but as I havent seen any evidence of flooding, I dont think Aviva has 
been unreasonable by not considering it.
The policy covers for subsidence or heave of the land on which the buildings stand, or 
landslip. But this cover will only apply if this has also affected the home, which isnt the case 
here. So again, I dont think Aviiva has acted unreasonably in not considering it.
I have checked the terms and conditions and there is a general exclusion to the policy whichmeans it applies to the whole policy.
Mrs Vs policy says:
. Your policy is intended to cover you against unforeseen events like fire or
theft. It does not cover wear and tear or damage which happens gradually over a period of 
time. 
And goes on to provide areas that are prone to wear and tear, giving boundary walls as an 
example.
The policy also states:
It is your responsibility to look after and regularly maintain your property
Aviva declined Mrs Vs storm damage claim saying that the cause of the damage was a 
gradual deterioration. And I think they have applied this exclusion term correctly as I dont 
think that storm damage was the main cause of the damage. But a mixture of a retaining wall 
that doesnt appear to be fit for purpose. And the boundary wall being undermined by the 
retaining wall over time, and not being regularly maintained.
I know Mrs V will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont think that Aviva has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in applying the terms of her insurance policy. I know there remains 
a question about the ownership of the newer retaining wall and that Mrs V has sought 
clarification as to who has responsibility for it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman