DRN-2259339
The complaint
The complaint is about a secured loan that Mrs B used to hold jointly with another party. 
Prior to it being repaid, the loan was administered by Target Servicing Limited. 
Mrs B is unhappy that Target registered adverse information about the loan payment record 
on her credit file even though a court had ordered the other party take responsibility for the 
loan.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position here is that this was a joint loan, for which Mrs B was jointly and 
severally liable alongside the other party. Im aware Mrs B says the property that secured the 
loan was only owned by the other party; shes also told us that the other party abused her 
through controlling behaviour.
I cant begin to imagine how horrible that must have been, and Im not unsympathetic 
towards Mrs Bs circumstances. But they dont change her joint liability to pay the loan, or 
Targets obligation to provide factually accurate credit data. 
Ive looked through Targets contact notes of its dealings with both borrowers. These indicate 
each borrower told Target they were disinclined to make payments because the other wasnt 
doing so. That rather limited Targets options, given it had an obligation to treat both 
borrowers with equal consideration and fairness.
Ive then considered what effect, if any, the court order might have had. The court order 
didnt require Target to do anything; it wasnt a party to the dispute being decided in the 
court. 
Here, Mrs Bs remedy wasnt against Target if the order wasnt followed; it was against the 
other party to the order. So I dont think it unfair, therefore, that Target accurately recorded 
non-payment against both parties to the loan.
My final decision
I know this will disappoint Mrs B but I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision 
concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman