DRN-3043437
The complaint
Miss D complains about the advice she received from Wyatt Morris Golland Limited (WMGL) 
to transfer benefits from her former employers defined benefit scheme to a personal pension 
plan. 
What happened
In 2017, Miss D sought advice from her adviser, WMGL about whether to transfer the 
deferred benefits accrued in her former employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a 
personal pension plan (PPP). 
At the time of advice, Miss Ds circumstances were recorded as follows:
she was aged 51
divorced with no dependents
in ill-health from a serious, but not immediately life-threatening condition
employed as a contractor working through a limited company, earning £42,000 per 
year total with £7,500 paid as salary and £34,500 in dividends
had cash savings of at least £40,000
owned a property worth £270,000 with £130,000 mortgage 
had an existing Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) valued at around £260,000 
and the intention was to continue funding from employer contributions of £16,000 per 
year from the limited company until age 55
state pension at age 67 of around £9,000 per year. 
An attitude to risk questionnaire was also completed. Miss D was deemed a Balanced 
Growth investor and this was explained to mean, in part, that these investors can be 
inclined to look for safer investments rather than higher returns but understand that 
investment risk may be required to meet their investment goals.
The Pension Transfer Analysis Application signed 4 October 2017 under the section 
Reasons for transfer (what client is aiming to achieve) records that Miss D wanted:
The ability to take higher tax-free cash than would have been available from the 
existing scheme.
The ability to retire earlier than NRD, without penalty, due to deteriorating health.
The ability to take higher levels of income in the early years of retirement, in order to 
fund lifestyle before health deterioration affects quality of life.
A target income in retirement is £24,000 (index linked). This is far higher than the 
scheme will offer at retirement.
Miss D signed a fee agreement, also dated 4 October 2017 which explained: 
I understand and agree that, for the time spent in assessing, advising, and arranging the
above business on my behalf, Wyatt Morris Golland & Co will charge an Initial Fee of
£4,000. This fee will be paid before the money is placed into the [PPP].
From the information Ive been provided, WMGL evaluated several scenarios to determine 
the best course of action to meet Miss Ds objectives and circumstances. Each scenario 
assumed Miss Ds normal retirement age from the OPS as 65.
The first option considered was for Miss D to take benefits from her SIPP between age 55 
and 65, then reduce the level of income from the plan once benefits were payable from the 
OPS. The second option was for Miss D to transfer the OPS benefits to a personal pension 
and take benefits from both the existing SIPP and the transferred benefits for all of her future 
income needs. And the last option considered was for Miss D to transfer the OPS benefits to 
a personal pension and when Miss D retired, look at purchasing an enhanced annuity. The 
adviser ultimately recommended the second option as it was viewed as a more sustainable 
approach and afforded Miss D the flexibility needed to meet her objectives.
The OPS benefits were subsequently transferred to a personal pension plan.
In April 2018, Miss D, through her adviser applied to take benefits from her SIPP on grounds 
of ill-health.
Miss D was later informed by the trustees of the OPS that there wouldnt have been a 
reduction to her benefits if she drew an income directly from the scheme at age 60 as this 
was the normal retirement age for her tranche of employees. And early retirement based on 
ill health was also possible, at the discretion of the OPS trustees.  
Miss D then complained to WMGL about the advice she received and the fees she paid. 
Specifically, Miss D complained:
The advice was wrong because it was based on the OPS benefits being unreduced 
from 65 instead of 60 and she was unhappy with paying £4,000 for this. 
When she asked the adviser before the transfer about early retirement at 60 the 
reduction factors were estimated by the adviser and she was told she may not be able 
to access them at 60 in the future if the scheme rules changed.
She was concerned with the risk of loss of guarantees but needed access to the 
pension because of her ill health. Had she known she could access her OPS at 60 she 
wouldnt have transferred because she had enough in her SIPP to keep her going until 
then.
An ill-health pension from her OPS was never mentioned [she later said she found out 
this was an option].
WMGL has accepted that they made an error when they explained to Miss D that her 
pension benefits would be reduced if she sought to draw an income directly from the scheme 
at 60 instead of 65. But it said their cashflow modelling concluded that the transfer was still 
suitable and met Miss Ds needs. WMGL also said that Miss Ds objectives couldnt have 
been met without transferring and there had been no financial loss, so it didnt uphold her 
complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss D brought her complaint to this service for an independent 
review. One of our investigators looked into Miss Ds concerns but he didnt think it should 
be upheld. He said that the although WMGL was mistaken when it said the income from her 
OPS would be reduced if she took benefits at age 60 instead of 65, the income at age 60 
WMGL used in its analysis was a reasonable estimate of what her benefits would have been unreduced. And he thought the flexibility gained by transferring the OPS benefits was a 
reasonable justification for the transfer, given her circumstances and objectives. 
Miss D didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, she said that WMGL 
accidentally getting the pension calculation about right should not excuse them and 
incompetent practice should not be left unchallenged. She didnt think she should pay for a 
job that wasnt done properly. Miss D said she was told it wasnt guaranteed that she could 
take benefits from her OPS at age 60 and that is what persuaded her the transfer was in her 
best interest. She also said that had WMGL enquired about taking her OPS pension early 
because of ill health she wouldnt have made the decision to transfer which she now regrets. 
The investigator considered these points but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Miss Ds complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision, the last stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss D and by WMGL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Instead, this service looks to resolve individual 
complaints between a consumer and a business. In order to uphold a complaint I would 
need to find that something has gone wrong and that a consumer has lost out as a result. I 
would then ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is 
possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The transfer of pension benefits from a defined benefit occupational scheme to a personal 
pension is something that has caused great concern to the regulator over recent years. So it 
has issued detailed guidance to firms about the steps that need to be undertaken when 
providing analysis and advice about such transfers. In particular the regulator has told firms 
that they should formulate their advice from a starting point that a transfer of this nature is 
unlikely to be suitable. 
It is not in dispute that WMGL incorrectly said that Miss D couldnt take her OPS benefits 
unreduced at age 60. And I think WMGL should have made enquiries about taking benefits 
from the OPS early due to ill health. So in this regard, I cant say that WMGL actions were 
fair and reasonable and in line with the regulators requirements when giving Miss D advice. 
But in order to uphold this complaint, I need to determine if Miss D has lost out as a result of 
WMGLs mistakes. So I must consider whats likely to have happened if WMGL had acted 
correctly.
The nature of Miss Ds OPS benefits differed considerably from the benefits she would be 
supplied with from her personal pension. The OPS would provide a guaranteed level of 
income, which would be increased over time (most likely in line with the Retail Prices Index). 
But otherwise, there would be little flexibility in how the benefits were paid. In transferring to 
the personal pension Miss D would have flexibility as to how much income she wished to take as well as being able to withdraw lump sums of capital (which would not normally be 
available from an OPS such as hers). The value of that personal pension would be 
dependent on the performance of the assets held within the pension  rather than be 
guaranteed. 
It is the nature of the guarantees provided by pension like Miss Ds OPS that normally mean 
it is not in the individuals best interests to transfer and give up those guarantees. However, 
there could be reasons why it is felt in the specific circumstances that the benefits of 
transferring outweigh the benefits of those guarantees.
At the time of advice Miss D was 51 and suffering a condition, that while not immediately life 
threatening, meant her health would continue to deteriorate. She expected to be able to work 
until age 55 but after that she thought she would likely have to stop working. Miss D had no 
spouse or dependents, so the OPS benefits provided upon death werent an important 
consideration. She was looking to pay off a considerable amount of her outstanding 
mortgage so she could decrease her outgoings at this time. 
And it has been noted at several points in the documents provided from this time that Miss D 
was interested in varying her income and wanted to take a higher income from 55 to 65 
when she expected to definitely be fit and active. Her objectives as outlined in the Pension 
Transfer Analysis Application and the Financial Planning Questionnaire completed at the 
time of advice, clearly indicates a need for flexibility in how Miss D took her benefits. For 
example, one of her objectives was the ability to take higher levels of income in the early 
years of retirement, in order to fund lifestyle before health deterioration affects quality of life. 
And it was recorded that she wanted to take a higher amount of tax-free cash and income 
than would have been possible from her OPS. 
In its analysis, WMGL set out three options for how to meet these objectives, all of which 
were incorrectly based on Miss Ds normal retirement date from the OPS as 65. But I can 
see Miss D asked the adviser whether it would be beneficial to take benefits from the OPS at 
age 60 instead of 65. WMGL estimated that her income would be around £10,650 per year 
at 60. WMGL claimed this was a reduced income because it was before her normal 
retirement date. The evidence Ive been provided suggests Miss D didnt think this was 
sufficient to meet her needs and objectives. And so she followed WMGLs recommendation 
to transfer her OPS benefits.
As it turns out WMGL were incorrect. Miss D was able to take her benefits from the OPS 
unreduced from age 60. But from the information Ive been provided, the income she would 
have received unreduced would still be in the region of £10,650 per year. As this amount 
was already insufficient, I think Miss D would have still opted to transfer even if shed been 
told that shed be guaranteed roughly this amount from age 60. 
Miss D asserts that it wasnt the amount of income that she was concerned about but rather 
that she was led to believe by WMGL that there was no guarantee shed be allowed to take 
benefits from her OPS at age 60. But having carefully reviewed the evidence provided from 
the time of sale, on balance, I dont consider this was the more likely reason for Miss Ds 
decision to accept the advice to transfer. Ive not seen sufficient evidence to suggest that 
WMGL believed it might not be possible for her to take benefits at age 60 and that this 
impacted its advice and Miss Ds decision to transfer. But from the correspondence Ive seen 
between Miss D and her adviser, she was concerned about whether her income needs 
would be met if she drew benefits solely from her SIPP. And as Ive noted above, from 
everything Ive been provided, Miss D felt the OPS income estimated at 60 wasnt sufficient 
for her needs and objectives. So I think its more likely this was a primary driver behind the 
advice and her decision to transfer.   Miss D is also unhappy WMGL didnt ask about taking her benefits early because of her ill 
health. Although early access to the OPS benefits due to ill-health might have been possible, 
this was not guaranteed and was down to discretion of the trustees. In any event, accessing 
her benefits in this way would not have allowed Miss D to meet her objectives, which 
required flexibility not afforded by the OPS. So I think it more likely that even if WMGL had 
asked the OPS about ill-health early retirement, the advice would have remained to transfer, 
and I think Miss D would have followed this advice. 
Although WMGL could have done a better job, for the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to 
conclude the advice it provided to Miss D wasnt suitable. So even if WMGL did everything 
as it should have, I think it is more likely than not, given Miss Ds clear objectives, she would 
have transferred in any event. On the balance of probabilities I think it more likely that 
Miss D wished to transfer because of the flexibility that generated  particularly in terms of 
the ability to vary her income in retirement. That need is documented and repeated on 
several occasions. I think she was prepared to forgo the guarantees provided by the OPS in 
order to achieve that level of flexibility.
Because of the mistakes WMGL made Miss D feels she shouldnt have to pay for the advice. 
However, she received a service and as Ive concluded she didnt receive unsuitable advice 
it would be punitive to ask WMGL to return the fee it received. This is outside of this 
services remit. If Miss D has concerns about the way WMGL conducts its business she can 
report these concerns to the industry regulator, the FCA. While the FCA doesnt look into 
individual complaints, they do consider the information they receive about individual firms to 
determine if any action is necessary.
I recognise Miss Ds strength of feeling on all these issues and I know that she will be 
disappointed. But Ive considered all her points very carefully. However, it follows from the 
above that I will not be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman