DRN-3040656
The complaint
Miss B complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc has managed an account she has with it.
What happened
Miss B is represented in bringing this complaint by family members  including Mrs B. 
Miss B has an account which she uses to receive benefits and pay for care. Mrs B says that 
Miss B was able to carry out everyday banking tasks but needs support with more difficult 
financial tasks and with benefit applications too. Mrs B has a form from the relevant authority 
that deals with Miss Bs benefits that she understood meant she could act as Miss Bs 
guardian when supporting her with her finances.
HSBC had Mrs B named on a third party mandate on Miss Bs account. But then said this 
was no longer suitable for Mrs B to deal with Miss Bs account. Mrs B provided the form from 
the benefits authority to show that she was entitled to represent Miss B. HSBC accepted this 
to make some payments but didnt accept that it meant Mrs B could act as her guardian for 
financial matters more widely. Instead HSBC gave a number of different options for Miss B 
and Mrs B to be able to deal with the account, or set up a new one so that HSBC could be 
satisfied things were set up correctly and with the correct authority.
During this time, Mrs B raised a number of complaints about how HSBC dealt with her and 
Miss B. She says that HSBC sent her ten years of statements in the post, which no one 
asked for. She also said that HSBC sent her a third party mandate form which she didnt 
request either. Then when she was in a local branch one day, a member of staff who knew 
Miss B got involved. Mrs B was concerned about their suggestion of a third party mandate 
and with some of the comments they made more generally.
Mrs B says she has experienced poor service and that Miss B hasnt been able to pay her 
personal assistants on time, which has caused problems. HSBC responded to Mrs Bs 
complaint on behalf of Miss B by saying that the current position on Miss Bs account isnt 
suitable or appropriate now. It said that it did stop benefits payments from Miss Bs account 
until it saw a form from the appropriate authority naming Mrs B to act on her behalf in any 
benefit claims. But HSBC said that this wasnt enough for it to allow Mrs B to deal with the 
account more widely, as she may have in the past. For that, Miss B and Mrs B should set up 
an appointee account, or register a power of attorney.
Mrs B referred Miss Bs complaint to us where one of our investigators looked at it. He didnt 
feel that HSBC needed to do any more here. He said that HSBC was entitled to ask for the 
form from the benefits authority and to withhold certain payments until it received that. He 
also said that HSBC was acting under its duty of care to safeguard customers and their 
money in dealing with this as it had here. So when HSBC suggested that Miss B should 
have an appointee account, it did so on the basis that this would be the most appropriate 
way of helping Miss B manage her money and account with it.
Mrs B disagreed with this and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that my summary of the events and issues here goes into less depth than Mrs Bs 
representatives have in bringing this complaint to us. But Id like to reassure them that I have 
considered all of the information they have provided alongside what HSBC has provided in 
reaching my decision. The fact that I havent gone into as much depth as they may want, or 
expect just reflects our role as an quick and informal service.
The main issue I need to decide here is whether its fair and reasonable that HSBC has 
suggested that Miss B needs to change the basis on which she deals with it and holds her 
account with it. Then I need to decide whether it was fair that HSBC didnt do what Mrs B 
and Miss B wanted, even after Mrs B provided it with further information.
Mrs B and Miss B will likely see this differently, but I think HSBC has acted fairly here. I 
realise that for some time, Mrs B and Miss B have managed her account with the assistance 
of branch staff and this arrangement worked for them. So, understandably, Mrs B was 
surprised when HSBC suggested that this arrangement needed to change. I can see why 
Mrs B asked why, if a new arrangement is needed now, why wasnt one needed earlier?
But HSBC as a business is entitled to review arrangements like this and make changes 
where it feels those are necessary. Its responsible for holding and, to an extent, protecting 
Miss Bs money held with it. HSBC has explained that it had concerns about whether Miss B 
understood what was happening with her account. So because of this, it didnt make 
payments until it was provided with further information about her situation. I realise that this 
may have meant that certain payments that Miss B needed to make werent made. But I still 
think that HSBC was entitled to take that action here, based on the concerns it had.
When Mrs B provided HSBC with the relevant form from the benefits authority  it did then 
make the relevant payments. But Mrs B thinks that this same form means that HSBC should 
also continue with the arrangement that it had before it suggested changing this. Ive had 
regard for everything Mrs B and Miss Bs other representative have said this form. Mrs B 
feels that this gives Mrs B authority for her to deal with Miss Bs finances in a wider sense.
Mrs B has provided two pages of this form. What shes provided explains that the form gives 
authority for Mrs B to act on Miss Bs behalf in dealing with the benefits authority and other 
government departments. It doesnt say that it gives her authority to act on Miss Bs 
accounts with HSBC, or on a wider financial basis. So I can see why HSBC hasnt accepted 
this in the way Mrs B thinks it should. 
It may also help to say that the current full version of this form online explains that if a 
benefits payment is made into a bank or building society, then the organisation must make 
sure that someone like Mrs B is correctly authorised to make withdrawals on behalf of the 
customer and that any procedures the business has are followed. Im not sure if this was the 
same at the time that Miss B obtained the form here  but it is the guidance now and HSBC 
has acted in line with that.
As it hasnt accepted this form, HSBC has suggested that Miss B opens an 
appointee/nominee account or that Mrs B obtains a power of attorney for her, based on what 
it knows about her situation. I think its reasonable to suggest these options and I think thats 
being suggested with Miss Bs best interests in mind. 
I say this because HSBC is aware that Miss B is vulnerable and that someone else provides 
her significant support with her finances and accounts. HSBCs suggestions here are 
intended to bring the support and arrangements it has for Miss B in line with its established framework for doing so  and I think its entitled to try and do that. The fact it hadnt done this 
before doesnt mean that any previous arrangements were incorrect though. HSBC is 
entitled to review the arrangements it has for customers from time to time and suggest 
changes where it has grounds to do so.
HSBC has already apologised for the comments made in branch by a staff member. I realise 
that this is a sensitive issue and HSBC admits it could have handled this more delicately. But 
I think that by apologising, HSBC has done enough to make up for that.
Then there are the other issues of the third party authority form for an account and 
statements being sent. Ive heard the relevant calls where the third party mandate was sent. 
I think there may have been some confusion from Mrs B about this  but the member of staff 
explained that this would be sent and why it was being sent. So I dont think HSBC acted 
wrongly here.
In terms of the statements  HSBC says it didnt send these and doesnt hold ten years 
worth of bank statements for Miss B in any event. Thats in line with what Id expect from 
HSBC too in terms of the relevant rules around holding data and information about 
customers. So, based on the evidence here, I dont think its likely that HSBC actually sent 
these.
All of this means that I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly here and I wont be telling it to do 
any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman