DRN-1640823
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has increased the 
premium for a motor bike he insures through it. He doesnt believe the additional premium 
charged, of around £95, was reflective of any additional risk. 
What happened
Mr D has a multi-bike policy with LV which covers four motorbikes. His policy came up for 
renewal on 1 September 2019 and it was renewed through his broker, which Ill call B. 
On 16 September 2019, Mr D got in touch with B as he wanted to change one of the insured 
bikes for a different make and model. He also notified B that the new bike had a modified 
fuel tank  a larger tank from 10 litres to 15 litres. B notified LV and it was referred to the 
underwriters who explained there would be an increase in premium of 25%. 
Mr D complained to B about the increase and about the fact he didnt have a call returned. B 
said the correct premium had been charged but it refunded the administration charge of £32 
as it hadnt called him. The matter of the increased premium was also referred to LV, who 
didnt uphold the complaint as the larger fuel tank increased its exposure. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Mr D had been treated fairly; 
all modifications of a fuel tank were referred for an underwriting decision. They in turn make 
a decision based on information about the tank, make, size etc to determine whether they 
were willing to accept the risk and at what cost. 
Mr D asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Having read Mr Ds 
submissions, I have summarised these as:
A larger tank doesnt necessarily mean longer journeys just less refuelling. 
The tank is lighter and safer than the manufacturers tank and complies with various 
safety standards including EU.
In his experience it is older and more mature bike riders that are likely to change their 
tank to a larger size. And bikes with aftermarket tanks represent a very small 
percentage of those involved in an accident. Establishing a causal link would be very 
difficult.
Hed like to see the actuarial information to see how the increased risk has been 
established.  
LV pointed out that in its file submission it had explained B had increased the overall 
premium by 25% not just for the changed bike with the modified tank. The increase should 
only have been £39.12, and a refund had been made to B for onward transmission. 
Our investigator clarified this with Mr D who confirmed receiving the refund but still wished to 
have a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, insurers are generally entitled to decide what risks they want 
to cover and at what cost. There are lots of factors that are taken into account when an 
insurer decides what to charge for covering a particular risk, and what weight to place on 
those factors. And each insurer will have a different risk appetite; this can be seen most 
clearly on a comparison site where different insurers will provide different quotes for the 
same set of circumstances. 
Such decisions arent something this office generally interferes with, unless the policyholder 
hasnt been treated fairly. I appreciate Mr D would like to see LVs underwriting criteria or 
actuarial tables, but that information is commercially sensitive and not something I would ask 
it to share. 
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that where a motorbike tank had been modified 
a referral to the underwriting team is made. It is then for the underwriting team, based on 
their risk experience and expertise, and information about the tank, to decide whether to 
accept the risk and at what cost. I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude    
Mr D has been treated unfairly in that process. 
Mr D has said he was told by LV there is increased exposure and a reason given for this was 
a longer journey with a larger tank, and so more chance of an accident. It isnt for me to 
comment on what risks an insurer should or shouldnt take into account; thats a matter for 
its commercial judgment. I do take Mr Ds point that a larger tank might not necessarily mean 
longer journeys but in LVs experience it might. And this wont be the only factor taken into 
account; LV has referred to others such as the cost of replacing the tank and its availability. 
Whilst Mr D believes its cheaper and more readily available, he is a retail customer and 
what is available to him and, importantly, at what cost is likely to differ to LV. And I cant 
ignore that carrying more fuel, of itself, is likely to increase any risk and any possible 
damage that LV might be liable for, should an accident occur. 
Having considered the matter carefully, and realising this will be disappointing for Mr D, I 
dont find LV has done anything or treated him unfairly when it increased the premium.  I 
therefore wont be making award against it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman