DRN-2835471
The complaint
Ms S complains that Nationwide Building Society applied the wrong exchange rate to a 
transfer. 
What happened
On 5 March 2020 Ms S called Nationwide and asked about exchange rates if she sent some 
funds from an account she holds abroad. The call handler said rates could change. They 
also incorrectly gave Ms S the exchange rate of 1.1228 euros to the pound. Nationwide says 
thats the rate it wouldve used if the funds had been sent from her account and converted 
from pounds to euros. Nationwide says the correct rate for incoming payments on 5 March 
2020 was 1.1807 euros to the pound. Nationwide says thats the rate Ms S shouldve been 
given when she called on 5 March 2020. 
On 6 March 2020 Ms S transferred the funds via CHAPS from her bank account abroad. 
Nationwide says it received the funds from its intermediary bank on 9 March 2020 and 
applied the incoming exchange rate of 1.1754 which was the rate applicable on that date. 
Ms S complained and Nationwide apologised that it gave the wrong rate when she called. 
Nationwide paid Ms S £25. But Nationwide didnt offer to pay Ms S the difference and said 
rates were liable to change depending on when the payment was received. 
Ms S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Nationwide had dealt with Ms S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Ms S asked to appeal and provided details of the rates she believes shouldve been applied. 
As Ms S asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms S is upset that she didnt receive the expected amount following 
her transfer. Nationwide accepts Ms S was given the wrong rate when she called on 5 March 
2020. When our service finds a business has made an error, we try to put the consumer 
back into the position they wouldve been in, had no error been made. We dont tell 
businesses to pay compensation for something a consumer wasnt entitled to. 
In this case, the error was that Ms S was given the wrong exchange rate of 1.1228 euros to 
the pound (or 0.8906 pounds to the euro) on 5 March 2020 when she called. That rate was 
only available for outgoing transfers, exchanging funds from pounds to euros. Its not a rate 
Ms S should ever have been offered. As its not a rate Ms S shouldve been given or was 
entitled to receive when sending euros to her Nationwide account for conversion to pounds, I 
cant tell the business to pay the difference. 
Nationwide has confirmed that on 5 March 2020 the correct conversion rate for incoming 
transfers shouldve been given as 1.1807 euros to the pound (or 0.8469 pounds to the euro). 
Nationwide has also explained that it can only ever provide an indicative exchange rate as 
the final rate can only be confirmed once the funds are received. 
Nationwide has sent in systems evidence that shows it received Ms S funds on the morning 
of 9 March 2020. I understand Ms S point that the funds were sent before the weekend, but 
Im satisfied Nationwide is correct in its claim that the transfer was received and converted 
on 9 March 2020. 
Whilst I understand my decision will disappoint Ms S, the funds were received by Nationwide 
on 9 March 2020 and it used a conversion rate of 1.1754 euros to the pound (or 0.8507 
pounds to the euro). Thats the correct exchange rate for incoming transfers subject to 
conversion from euros to pound for 9 March 2020. I havent found Nationwide used the 
wrong exchange rate when it received Ms S transfer. 
Ms S has sent us details of the exchange rates for the dates in question. But those rates are 
from the interbank market. Ms S was seeking to carry out a foreign exchange in a retail 
setting where the exchange rates are set by the business, not the market in general. 
Nationwide is entitled to apply its set exchange rate when it converts funds, which will 
include a margin, in line with its commercial discretion. We cant tell a business what rate it 
shouldve used, we can only look at whether the correct rate was applied on the day. 
I agree there was some disappointment to Ms S in this case as she received a lower return 
than she had been led to expect. But, as Ive said above, I cant award compensation on the 
basis of an exchange rate Ms S was never entitled to receive. And Im satisfied Nationwide 
used the correct exchange rate on 9 March 2020 when it received Ms S euros. Nationwide 
has apologised Ms S was given the outgoing exchange rate when she called on 5 March 
2020 instead of the rate used when funds are received for conversion and paid her £25. In 
my view, that figure fairly reflects the error Nationwide made and the disappointment Ms S 
was caused. 
As Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with Ms S complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman