DRN-2588648
The complaint
Miss M originally brought her complaint to this service with the assistance of a representative 
but she has sadly passed away over the course of our involvement. Miss Ms executors have 
continued with the complaint since her passing. In the interest of this decision being as clear 
as possible, Ill mostly refer to Miss M throughout. 
Miss M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded money she lost to an investment 
scam. She sent a total of £71,253 to fraudsters, some of which was financed by way of a 
£10,000 loan granted by Lloyds.
What happened
The circumstances of this case are well known to both parties and so I dont intend to set 
them out in all their detail here. There are some gaps in the timeline, or some detail is 
missing, given Miss Ms declining health at the time the complaint was brought to us. Her 
recollection of events had begun to fade before she passed away. But, generally speaking, 
the facts of the case are broadly accepted by all parties.
Miss M was contacted by fraudsters in August or September 2016. The fraudsters cold-
called Miss M and were posing as investment brokers. They said they could help Miss M 
invest money for her future. Options were discussed and Miss M was sent some literature 
about the investments. From that literature, its clear Miss M believed she was investing in 
binary options, something she had no previous experience of.
The payments started with a £2,000 transaction on 9 September 2016, made in branch. The 
money was sent to a new payee. The next payment wasnt then until January 2017. It was 
also made in branch and was preceded by a transfer from Miss Ms cash ISA. Over the 
weeks and months that followed Miss M made numerous further payments, varying in value 
from £3,000 to £10,000. Each time the payments were financed by way of transfers in from 
Ms Ms savings, either from within the bank or accounts held elsewhere. Thats aside from 
one payment made in October 2017 which was financed by way of a loan of £10,000 that the 
bank granted Miss M. All payments were made at Miss Ms local branch.
It wasnt until late 2018 that concerns began to arise. Miss Ms sister became concerned 
when Miss M started to become worried about money. This prompted a conversation about 
Miss Ms finances and she shared the details of the investments with her sister. She also 
explained shed been considering releasing equity in her home in order to finance further 
investment. Miss Ms sister started looking into things and realised Miss M had been 
scammed. She went on to be registered and Power of Attorney for Miss M in January 2019 
and the matter was raised with the bank.
Lloyds investigated but said it wouldnt be able to refund Miss M any of her loss as shed 
authorised the payments out of her account. It also said itd never had suspicions of anything 
being wrong and that Miss M always seemed assured, even when questioned about the 
purpose of a payment, specifically in June 2017.
Miss Ms complaint was brought to our service as she wasnt happy with the banks answer. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and thought the complaint should 
be upheld. This was principally on the basis that the bank ought to have done more to 
question the unusual spending on Miss Ms account. And she found that had the bank 
fulfilled its duty at the time  by questioning Miss M thoroughly about the payments and 
considering the unusual account activity  then it was likely the scam would have been 
uncovered and avoided. 
She also noted that Miss M did appear to present some vulnerabilities which the bank ought 
to have picked up on and, in turn, been more alert to the risk of her being at risk of financial 
harm.
Because of that she recommended that the complaint be upheld with Miss M receiving a 
refund of all payments from 25 January 2017 onward, meaning the first scam payment 
wouldnt be refunded (because it didnt appear as suspicious at that time) but everything else 
would be. She said 8% simple interest per year should be added to the refunded payments. 
She also recommended the loan be unwound and any payments made toward it refunded. 
And finally she suggested the bank pay £300 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered.
The bank initially disagreed. But when presented with some of the scam correspondence 
and further commentary it agreed to refund 50% of Miss Ms loss, in terms of the payments 
she made to the scammers, along with accepting the recommendations about the loan and 
compensation. It still didnt agree to a full refund on the basis that: Miss M had authorised 
the payments herself; Miss M had been questioned in branch on at least one occasion; there 
was no evidence to show that Miss M was vulnerable at the time or the bank was at least 
unaware (and hadnt been told about) any vulnerabilities.
Miss M had passed away by the time this offer was put forward by the bank and so it was 
put to her executors. But they didnt wish to accept. Our investigator told the bank her view 
remained unchanged and that a full refund was the fair and reasonable outcome. She 
emphasised again that the bank ought to have questioned the payments earlier and that its 
questioning of Miss M, even when it did ask about the payments, was insufficient and 
unlikely to have uncovered a scam. Lloyds maintained its position and so the case has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
I contacted the bank to say that I felt the investigators reasoning stood and that I was likely 
to uphold the complaint. But I felt it was important to further discuss the vulnerability aspect 
of the case as I thought there was more to say on the subject and the bank didnt appear to 
have considered all of the detail. I said there were various factors to consider and that they 
should be viewed as a whole in establishing the vulnerabilities Miss M presented, why she 
was more susceptible to falling victim to a scam and why the bank ought to have noticed and 
acted. I explained Miss M:
was 68 at the time the scam started;
lived alone in an isolated location;
had suffered workplace injuries that had left her with mobility issues and unable to 
work;
received state benefits as a result of the above; and
had been the victim of fraud before, which the bank knew about.
The bank had previously said in its defence of the case that Miss M was well-known to branch staff. And so I said it seemed fair and reasonable to conclude that the bank would 
have  or ought to have known  about Miss Ms vulnerabilities. Miss M ought not have had 
to tell the bank about them specifically. In particular, the bank was aware that Miss M had 
been the victim of fraud before. What exactly happened is unclear, as the records are very 
limited. But it appears the bank uncovered fraud on Miss Ms account and had to alert her to 
it. So it knew she was vulnerable to fraud and scams. I said Lloyds ought to have had a 
heightened alertness to the possibility of her falling victim again and so had suitable 
measures in place to help protect her.
I invited the bank to reconsider its position with those points in mind. It said it remained of 
the same view and made no further offer to settle the case. It said, We argue that there has 
been sufficient body of evidence presented that a measure of accountability rests with Miss 
M  and we have seen insufficient evidence to demonstrate responsibility on the banks part 
for these transactions.
Im providing my findings in this final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were authorised payments even though Miss M was the victim of a scam. She went 
to branch and followed the proper procedures for instructing the bank to debit her account. 
So, although she did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations (2009 and 2017, as applicable depending on the date of each 
transaction), and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss M is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like these, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate and applicable.
Ive not seen anything in the banks response that leads me to change my view of what 
ought to have happened when Miss M was making the scam payments in branch. There 
would be a strong argument for saying the bank ought to have stepped in to thoroughly 
question what Miss M was doing when she made the second payment to the scammers, 
given the unusual change in account activity. But here, the bank also should have had Miss Ms vulnerabilities in mind and ought to have had precautionary measures in place to help 
protect her. Even without the consideration of her age, living circumstances and disability 
issues (that it seems fair and reasonable to say the bank ought to have known about, given 
she was well-known to branch staff), she had been the victim of fraud before and so it 
oughtve been more alert to her being at risk of financial harm again.
In practice, this might mean stepping in to question account activity early on, and sooner 
than the bank might do with a customer that has no clear or known vulnerabilities. And Id 
expect the level of questioning the bank engages in to be more thorough in order to make 
sure the customer is protected as much as possible.
But that questioning didnt happen at the appropriate time or, when it did, it didnt go far 
enough. From the records we have it seems Miss M did discuss some payments and told the 
bank they were for investments. And she said she was happy with the rate of return she was 
getting. The bank says it asked if shed investigated the company and Miss M said she had.
Whilst these questions are a good starting point they do little to really check a customer isnt 
at risk. They also do little to alert the customer that they might be at risk of fraud or, more 
specifically, that investment scams are common. Miss M doesnt appear to have been given 
any context to the questions she was being asked.
The bank ought to have probed into the detail of the proposed investments. How did Miss M 
hear about the opportunity? What was she investing in? What was the promised rate of 
return? This would have revealed details that ought to have been very concerning for the 
bank. Cold-calling, binary options investments and unusually high rates of return are all 
hallmarks of a scam that the bank should be aware of.
As Ive explained to the bank already, the considerations around vulnerability strengthen the 
reasons to uphold the complaint when thinking about actions and steps that ought to be 
taken when a bank ought to be monitoring accounts and protecting customers from financial 
harm. And given its already agreed to refund 50% of the scam payment losses on those 
grounds, I find its fair and reasonable to say that it ought to pay the full 100% with these 
additional points in mind.
I find the bank, acting as the professional in the relationship, and considering its expertise in 
scams and how to spot them, ought to have asked questions early on. And I find that 
suitable questioning would have revealed enough concern about the payments that a strong 
warning should then have been given to Miss M. Im satisfied that, had it done so, Miss M 
would likely have taken a different course of action. That might have been her seeking 
assistance from family members or a financial advisor (with whom shed engaged 
previously).
Lloyds has suggested Miss M should bear some responsibility for the loss as she didnt do 
more to check the legitimacy of the investments. And its referred to her not discussing them 
with family or the financial adviser first. But I can see Miss M was provided with literature and 
correspondence that does look persuasive, along with what appear to have been convincing 
representations by the scammers on the phone, and so I can see why, as a relative layman, 
she believed she was engaged in legitimate activity. Particularly when her vulnerabilities 
indicate that she was more susceptible to fraud. And I dont find its fair and reasonable to 
say Miss M had to engage with family or a financial advisor before proceeding. Whilst such 
actions might have meant the scam was avoided, I dont find her actions were so careless, in 
not having such discussions, that the redress due to her should be reduced. I believe many 
reasonable people wouldnt have taken those steps and would have fallen victim, without 
intervention from their bank. And, indeed, had Lloyds questioned Miss M and properly 
warned her about the risk of scams she may have even sought this further assistance. But she needed the assistance of the bank to help her identify that she was at risk. 
Putting things right
Lloyds has already offered to refund half of the payments plus interest. But I find it should 
refund Miss M in full. Its also agreed to unwind the loan and pay the compensation 
previously put forward by the investigator. And so, altogether, Lloyds should now:
refund all of all the payments, apart from the first transaction of £2,000, in full*;
pay 8% interest on each of the transactions from the date of payment to the date of 
the refund;
unwind the loan taken out by Miss M, refunding any payments made to it with 8% 
simple interest per year on each payment;
write off the balance of the loan;
remove all credit file information relating to the loan; and
compensation for distress caused of £300.
*Miss Ms estate ought not benefit from the refund of the loan funds as the loan itself is to be 
unwound with any payments toward it being returned. As such there will be no loss there 
and it wouldnt be right for the refund to include £10,000 of the banks money and for the 
loan to then not be repaid. 
If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest award, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give a tax 
deduction certificate if asked for one, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
M to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman