DRN-3655035
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Bank of Scotland (BOS) trading as Halifax acted irresponsibly 
by agreeing an overdraft and increasing her limit. She says BOS acted unfairly by continuing 
to apply charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs D complained to BOS that it acted irresponsibly by lending to her and allowing her to 
increase her overdraft limit on a number of occasions.  BOS didnt uphold the complaint. And 
as Mrs D was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Mrs Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that there wasnt 
anything in the information provided by Mrs D, her account history or credit checks that 
suggested the lending was unaffordable and she didnt think there were any signs of 
financial difficulty before Mrs D got in contact with BOS about this. 
Mrs D doesnt agree. She says the charges on her overdraft were crippling, she cant afford 
the monthly payments and that she is paying debt with debt and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision in July 2022. In 
my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. BOS agreed to settle Mrs Ds complaint in line with my recommendations on the 
basis that if she wasnt in a position to settle the outstanding balance after any refunds were 
applied that she set up an arrangement with BOS to pay back the outstanding balance. If an 
arrangement was agreed a marker for this will be placed on her credit file. 
Mrs D didnt wish to accept BOSs offer as she didnt want to incur negative markers on her 
credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
BOS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is it 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs D would be 
able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. 
Mrs Ds overdraft is what we refer to as an open-ended credit facility. This means the checks 
BOS carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mrs D would 
be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
In the six years before raising her complaint BOS approved overdraft limit increases from 
£1,500 to £2,500 in 2017 and then up to £2,800 in 2018. All further applications for increases 
were declined. The applications for the limit increases were made on line. BOS says all 
applications were credit scored taking into account information Mrs D provided about her 
income and how she had managed her account with it, as well as information held by other 
lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information BOS was 
satisfied her score was high enough to provide her with the overdraft facility she requested.
I accept that Mrs Ds financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information she disclosed to BOS at the time. And it is possible 
that further checks might have told BOS this. But BOS was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
credit check it carried out. 
And having viewed Mrs Ds statements leading up to the increases I can see that although 
Mrs D did use her overdraft she was regularly able to bring it right down with incoming 
credits and often saw and was able at times to maintain a credit balance. She had a number 
of particularly large transfers coming into the account from the end of 2017 and throughout 
2018 where her credit balance was in the thousands. I also note that Mrs Ds credit report 
showed up no adverse data at the time the overdraft limit increases were approved.  So I 
think BOSs checks went far enough and I dont think BOS acted unfairly in increasing her 
limit. 
But by the renewal date shown on her bank statements of 22 August 2020 I think it was 
evident she was in financial difficulty. Mrs Ds statements showed that she hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time and spent the majority of time at 
the top of her limit. BOSs own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen 
emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. Mrs Ds statements show she 
was clearly struggling to manage her overdraft limit with BOS there was little if no money 
coming in and in July 2020 I can see there were a number of returned direct debits 
BOS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
And having carefully considered everything provided, Im currently intending to find that BOS 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after the 
renewal date of 22 August 2020. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs D was in 
no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
So I think that Mrs Ds overdraft usage should have prompted BOS to have realised that Mrs 
D wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As BOS didnt react to Mrs Ds overdraft usage until she contacted it about her 
financial difficulties in November 2021, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Mrs D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that BOS didnt 
treat Mrs D fairly and she lost out because of what BOS did wrong.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration and Mrs 
D doesnt wish to accept BOSs offer I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out 
in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint.Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint for BOS to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 22 August 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made BOS should contact Mrs D to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ds credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft on 22 August 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then BOS 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BOS to take off tax from this interest. BOS must give 
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ds complaint against Bank of Scotland plc and direct it pay the fair 
compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman