DRN-2040838
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) handled her credit card account 
when it went into arrears.   
What happened
Mrs M fell into arrears with her Aqua credit card in May 2019. She contacted NewDay at the 
beginning of May 2019 to explain shed lost her job. NewDay sent Mrs M an income and 
expenditure (I&E) form to complete, so that a suitable payment plan could be set up. 
Mrs M completed the I&E form and it confirmed that she didnt have any funds available to 
put towards her arrears. A payment plan for £0 was put in place in June 2019, with an 
agreement for it to be reviewed every three months. NewDay sent confirmation of this in the 
post to Mrs M, along with an explanation of the implications of not being able to pay in the 
future. They also reported the arrangement to pay with the credit reference agencies.
The second review in August 2019 showed Mrs Ms situation was unchanged. So, the plan 
remained in place at £0 and confirmation letters were again sent to Mrs M. Mrs Ms credit file 
continued to be updated during this time. 
The third review took place in November 2019. During this review, Mrs M said that she had a 
job lined up, but it hadnt been finalised. Her financial situation at that time was unchanged, 
so the payment plan remained at £0, with a review in three months time.
But in January 2020, NewDay sold Mrs Ms debt to a debt recovery agency. 
Mrs M complained about this. She said that the plan should have stayed in place until 
March 2020 and not been sold on. She also said that NewDay and the debt recovery agency 
had both continued to place entries on her credit file, so the debt was showing twice. 
NewDay didnt respond to Mrs Ms complaint in the specified time, so she asked our service 
to look into it for her. Our investigator asked NewDay for their response. NewDay provided 
this and explained that they should have removed their entry from Mrs Ms credit file when 
they sold it to the debt recovery agency. They apologised to Mrs M for this error and 
arranged for the entry to be removed from the date the debt was sold. 
Our investigator said that NewDay had sold the debt on too early, but she didnt think this 
had had any impact on Mrs M or her situation. She said that the total debt had to be paid 
back by March 2020 and it didnt appear as though Mrs M was going to be able to do that, so 
the debt would always have been sold to the debt recovery agency. She did agree that 
NewDay had made an error in not correcting the credit file at the appropriate time, but she 
felt an apology was enough. 
Mrs M didnt accept this. She told our investigator she would have paid the debt off, or that 
her partner would have done. 
As Mrs M didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that NewDay made an error and sold Mrs Ms debt to the debt recovery agency 
prior to the end of the payment arrangement review. But I agree with our investigator. Im not 
persuaded that this impacted on Mrs Ms situation or made her situation worse. 
Mrs M had fallen into arrears in May 2019 and hadnt been able to make any payments 
towards those arrears for seven months. NewDay had sent Mrs M letters at every payment 
review to confirm what had been agreed and the actions moving forward. These letters also 
explained that the debt could be sold at any time to a debt recovery agency.
Ive listened to the telephone calls between Mrs M and NewDay at every review. She did 
explain in the call in November 2019 that she had a new job lined up, but that it hadnt been 
finalised. And she asked for the payment plan to remain at £0. There isnt any indication in 
this call and review that Mrs M is going to be in a position by March 2020 to pay off her 
outstanding arrears. Our investigator also asked Mrs M to provide proof to our service that 
she would have had the funds available in March 2020 to settle what she needed to. Or that 
her partner would have been able to settle the arrears for her. But Mrs M hasnt provided 
anything. 
Based on the evidence that has been provided Im not persuaded that Mrs M would have 
been able to settle the arrears in March 2020, at which point the debt would have been 
passed to the debt recovery agency to pursue. NewDay passing the debt across two months 
early wasnt the right thing to do at that time, but Im satisfied it hasnt had an impact on 
Mrs M financially.
NewDay have accepted they should have removed their entry from the credit reference 
agencies once the debt had been passed on. They have now arranged for this to be done 
and offered an apology to Mrs M. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. Mrs M 
hasnt suggested that the duplicate entries have prevented her from obtaining credit during 
the time they were both being reported, so Im satisfied that an apology and the removal of 
the entries by NewDay is all they need to do.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, this complaint is upheld. But NewDay Ltd arent required to do 
anything further for Mrs M.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman