DRN-2995245
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the customer service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) in relation to a cancelled loan.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here.  My focus on the crux of the complaint isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the 
informal service we provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Nationwide have already offered Mr P a reasonable resolution to his 
complaint for these reasons:
This service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead we look to resolve individual 
complaints between a customer and a business. Should we decide that something 
has gone wrong  we can ask the business to put things right by placing their 
customer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the problem 
hadnt occurred.
Nationwide have acknowledged they let Mr P down in relation to the customer 
service they provided him. The loan funds should have been released and returned 
quickly and easily. Unfortunately, this didnt happen and Nationwide unnecessarily 
complicated things by providing incorrect information. Mr P also struggled to 
communicate with Nationwide at times and promised call backs didnt take place.
In response to the complaint, Mr P received some troubling emails which 
understandably led him to question if they were genuine. These emails included 
factual and typing errors, and they didnt include his postcode as per some published 
guidance. While he now knows these emails were sent from Nationwide  he 
stopped using his email address as a result. So, its clear he was caused trouble, 
worry and upset because of this issue.
Mr P didnt experience a financial loss because of the delay in repaying the loan 
funds, and no negative information was recorded on his credit file. This means the 
only remaining issue for me to decide is whether the compensation should 
reasonably be increased. 
I know Mr P feels very strongly about this matter and let down by Nationwide. He 
also believes they havent taken his concerns seriously. As Im sure Mr P can 
appreciate, compensation awards arent an exact science. However, having carefully 
considered the impact of Nationwides errors, the timeframe involved and the number 
of difficulties Mr P experienced  Im satisfied £300 is a proportionate and fair amount 
of compensation to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
I think Nationwide Building Society have already offered Mr P a reasonable resolution to his 
complaint. They should therefore pay him £300 compensation, unless they have already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman