DRN-2753978
The complaint
Mr Ms complained, on behalf of his late brothers estate, that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
havent dealt properly with the balance on an old account his brother held.
What happened
At the start of 2020, Mr Ms brother told him that hed found a passbook hed lost many years 
before for an account hed had with Cheltenham & Gloucester.  Before he was able to 
pursue the matter with Lloyds (who took over Cheltenham & Gloucester), Mr Ms brother 
sadly passed away.
Mr M is dealing with his late brothers estate.  He contacted Lloyds to claim the balance 
showing in the passbook for the estate.  A few days after Mr M contacted them, Lloyds wrote 
to him, saying theyd not been able locate an account using the information hed provided, 
and asking Mr M if he could provide more details to help them.
Mr M provided the additional details Lloyds requested.  About three weeks later, Lloyds 
wrote to Mr M again to tell him they couldnt find any account which matched the details hed 
given them.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and complained to Lloyds.  Lloyds set up the complaint with a third 
partys contact details and considered it.  They replied to the third party, explaining theyd 
searched their records but hadnt found the account.  And they suggested it might be worth 
contacting TSB (which had previously been part of the Lloyds group) to see if they could 
help.  Or that it might be possible to get help from a website called 
www.mylostaccount@ukfinance.org.uk.
Mr M wasnt happy that Lloyds hadnt set up the complaint correctly and had shared 
information with the third party.  Lloyds apologised and offered Mr M compensation for that.  
But they gave Mr M the same information about the account as they gave the third party.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator considered it and concluded that 
Lloyds didnt need to do anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  He thought theyd done 
all they reasonably could to trace the account and didnt think there was anything else they 
could do.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ill start by saying that Im only considering the complaint that Lloyds havent dealt properly 
with tracing Mr Ms late brothers account.  Mr M accepted Lloyds offer of compensation to 
resolve his complaint about them writing to a third party.
I understand Mr Ms concern.  His brother told him shortly before hed died that hed found 
the passbook, which had been missing for many years.  I can understand why someone 
having that conversation would conclude that the passbook owner was pleased because 
theyd not been able to access their money without it.  And that theyd assume the money 
was still in the account.
Unfortunately, thats not necessarily the case.  The passbook shows the balance at one 
point in time.  Its not definitive evidence that theres been no activity on the account since  
or even that the accounts still open.  Banks and building societies have computerised their 
records over the years.  And they didnt always insist on passbooks being returned when 
that happened.
In this case, the last entry in the passbook was made in 1988  over 30 years ago.  But  as 
Ive explained  that doesnt mean I can decide the moneys still there and available to pay 
to the estate.  Id expect Lloyds to carry out searches to see if they do, in fact, have an 
account.  Ive seen Lloyds did that here.  
Mr M said Lloyds came back to him very quickly  so he doubts the searches were thorough.  
I cant say the searches were inadequate based only on the length of time they took.  Ive 
seen that  after theyd done a search - Lloyds asked Mr M for any more details he had to 
help them.  When Mr M provided more information, they searched both active and dormant 
accounts again.  And their notes show Lloyds searched a third time as part of their 
investigation of Mr Ms complaint.  
So Im satisfied the searches were thorough.  And Ive seen Lloyds reported their outcome to 
Mr M.  They also suggested alternative enquiries Mr M could make of other organisations.
I know Mr M wants answers.  And Im sorry bringing his complaint to us hasnt provided 
them.  But I dont think thats possible, given the amount of time thats passed since Mr Ms 
brothers account was used.  Its not reasonable for me to decide that Lloyds should be able 
to give Mr M the information he wants.  Theyve taken steps to find out what happened.  I 
dont think its fair to say they should do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Ms made on behalf of his 
late brothers estate about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman