DRN-3265079
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Homeserve Membership Limited didnt tell him it was going to 
renew his policy with it. Mr M is unhappy that he hasnt received a full refund of the 
premiums he paid since the renewal date. 
What happened
Mr M bought a Plumbing and Drainage Plus policy with the intermediary Homeserve. This 
policy automatically renewed in August 2021. 
On 26 July 2021 Homeserve wrote to Mr M to let him know the policy would automatically 
renew and what the price of cover would be from 21 August 2021. 
In October 2021 Mr M contacted Homeserve and raised a complaint. He said he didnt 
receive any information about the renewal of the policy. He was unhappy that two months 
premiums had been collected at a higher price. Mr M wanted a full refund. 
Homeserve didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it correctly renewed his policy after writing 
to him to give notice that it would renew his policy. It said it had correctly provided a pro rata 
refund for the days it provided cover  as Mr M had cancelled the policy after the cooling off 
period. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought 
Homeserve hadnt done anything wrong. So he didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint should 
be upheld. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said Homeserve could have phoned him to check hed received the 
renewal notice. He said it should provide proof it posted the renewal letter to him. 
So Mr M wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy was arranged by the intermediary Homeserve and it acts on behalf of the 
insurer in respect of the administration of the policy. 
Homeserve said that it would contact Mr M before the renewal date of the policy to arrange 
renewal. I understand Mr M says he didnt receive the renewal notice sent on 26 July 2021. 
But I can see from Homeserves notes and internal screenshots that it was sent. So Im 
satisfied that Homeserve acted correctly. 
A business doesnt have to send all postal communication by recorded delivery. And it 
doesnt have to use a specific method of communication unless a customer has requested 
this in advance. So I cant say that Homeserve didnt act reasonably by sending the renewal 
notice by post to Mr M. I dont know why it wasnt received. But I cant say this is because 
Homeserve didnt send it. 
As Mr M contacted Homeserve after the cooling off period, it cancelled Mr Ms policy in line 
with the terms of the policy. It therefore provided a pro rata refund. 
I understand Mr M is unhappy with the outcome. But I dont think Homeserve acted 
unreasonably. I think it treated Mr M fairly and as it would any other customer in the same 
circumstances. So this means Im not asking it to any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman