DRN-3849049
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Vitality Health Limited has handled a claim he made on a 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr M took out a personal private medical insurance policy. In August 2021, he 
contacted Vitality to make a claim on the policy to investigate left knee pain. In December 
2021, Vitality contacted Mr M to ask for some further information about his condition. It had 
concerns that Mr Ms knee condition had existed before the policy was taken out. Mr M 
provided Vitality with the information itd asked for promptly afterwards.
As Mr M was unhappy with the delays in Vitalitys handling of his claim, he asked us to look
into his complaint. The investigator thought Vitality had caused unreasonable delays in
assessing Mr Ms claim and so he recommended that it should pay Mr M £150 
compensation. Both parties accepted that outcome.
However, Mr M continued to experience delays in the assessment of his claim. On 6 May
2022, Vitality turned down Mr Ms claim and added an exclusion to his policy for disorders of
the left knee and related conditions. But it acknowledged that thered been a further
unreasonable delay in the assessment of Mr Ms claim and so it offered him £300
compensation to reflect the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr M didnt feel Vitalitys offer went far enough and so he asked us to look into a new
complaint about the additional delays hed experienced between December 2021 and May
2022.
Ultimately, our investigator concluded that Vitality should pay Mr M a total of £450
compensation. Thats because he thought that had Vitality turned down the claim sooner, Mr
M wouldve been in a position to obtain diagnostic testing and treatment earlier than he did.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 November 2022. As Mr M had confirmed that this 
complaint is only about the delays in Vitalitys assessment of his claim, my provisional 
decision didnt consider whether it had been fair for Vitality to turn down his claim. Based on 
what Id seen, I explained why I thought Vitality had already made a fair offer of 
compensation. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. In
this case, Vitality accepts that it didnt meet its regulatory obligation to handle Mr Ms claim
fairly. It acknowledges that Mr M very promptly provided it with information itd requested in
December 2021 to allow it to further assess the claim. However, this information wasnt
assessed by the relevant underwriting team until 6 May 2021  almost five months later. This
is clearly an unreasonable delay and I dont doubt how frustrating this mustve been for Mr
M. I also appreciate that during the relevant time, Mr M didnt undergo diagnostic testing for
his knee pain, which he says impacted upon his mental and physical health. So I think it was
appropriate that Vitality offered Mr M an apology and compensation for its error.
In my view, the £300 Vitalitys already offered Mr M is a fair and reasonable award to
recognise the trouble and upset I think its handling of the claim between December 2021
and May 2022 caused him. I acknowledge that Mr M says that the delay in assessing his
claim caused him a loss of income and has negatively impacted on his career. He also says
that if hed known the claim wouldnt be paid, he wouldve been able to undergo MRI testing
earlier. This wouldve diagnosed the cause of the pain and he couldve undergone surgery
sooner. But it seems to me that given Mr M says he wouldve paid for testing himself had he
known the claim wouldnt be paid, he couldve chosen to undergo MRI testing earlier than he
did at his own cost. And accordingly, he couldve potentially claimed back the cost from
Vitality had the claim been found to be successful. This wouldve allowed him to receive a
diagnosis earlier and seek any necessary treatment, again, which could potentially have
been claimed back on the policy had the claim been accepted.
And Ive seen no persuasive medical or other evidence that any delay on Vitalitys part
caused Mr M to suffer a loss of income, nor that it adversely impacted on his physical and
mental health. So I dont think I could fairly direct Vitality to increase its compensation award
on these grounds.
Overall, I currently find that £300 total compensation is a fair award to reflect the frustration
and upset I think Vitalitys delays in assessing this claim are likely to have caused Mr M. So I
dont plan to tell Vitality to pay anything more.
 I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
Vitality had nothing to add.
Mr M didnt accept my provisional findings and Ive summarised his response:
Vitality had failed to provide him with the service hed been entitled to expect and so 
he felt it would be reasonable for it to pay him a pro-rata refund of premium;
Vitality promotes itself as an insurer which understands that some people need to 
maintain an active lifestyle as part of their career. This was the reason why Mr M had 
taken out the policy and Vitality had fundamentally failed him in this regard;
Mr Ms complaint had related both the delay in the assessment of the claim and its 
delay in responding to his complaint. So he felt that £300 compensation was far too 
low to reflect the overall circumstances and issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I still think Vitalitys offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
Mr M has referred to Vitalitys marketing of the policy and how this influenced his decision to 
take it out. It seems to me that this issue relates more to both the sale of the policy and 
Vitalitys decision to turn down the claim, rather than relating to the delays Mr M 
experienced. So I dont think it would be appropriate for me to deal with this issue within this 
decision. If Mr M feels the policy was mis-sold to him, hed need to make a complaint about 
that issue to the business which sold him the policy. And as Ive stated above, this decision 
wont consider whether it was fair for Vitality to turn down the claim.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Vitality accepts there were unreasonable delays in its handling of Mr Ms claim and in its response to his complaint. It didnt meet its regulatory 
obligation to handle Mr Ms claim promptly. So its appropriate that it pays Mr M 
compensation to reflect the frustration and upset those overall delays caused him. Its offer of 
compensation took into account the delays in both the claim and complaint handling. Id like 
to reassure Mr M that I also considered his complaint as a whole when considering whether 
Vitalitys offer was fair.
I appreciate that Mr M feels given Vitalitys service failings, it should pay him a pro-rata 
refund of premium. I understand that by delaying the assessment of Mr Ms claim for some 
months, it did let him down. But during this time, Vitality was still providing cover for the risk 
of Mr M needing to make a claim during the relevant policy year. And its a fundamental 
principle of insurance that if an insurer has started to bear risk, the premium paid is not 
returnable. That means its not unreasonable for Vitality to keep any premiums relating to the 
risk it covered during Mr Ms period of cover. Neither do I think that, generally, delays in 
claim assessment reasonably entitle a policyholder to a premium refund. So I dont think I 
could fairly or reasonably direct Vitality to pay Mr M a pro-rata refund of premium.
Overall, I do sympathise with Mr Ms position. I appreciate he suffered a painful injury and 
that Vitality didnt handle the claim promptly. And I acknowledge that this is likely to have 
caused Mr M upset, frustration and put him to some inconvenience. But it remains the case 
that theres still no persuasive medical evidence that Vitalitys delays caused a negative 
impact on Mr Ms health nor that it negatively impacted upon his career. I still also find that it 
had been open to Mr M to seek diagnostic testing at his own cost, if hed wished to do so, 
and claim the costs back from Vitality had the claim been covered. As such then, I remain 
satisfied that £300 compensation is a fair award to recognise the impact of Vitalitys delays 
between December 2021 and May 2022. Its open to Mr M to contact Vitality should he now 
wish to accept its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
Vitality has already made a fair offer to settle Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman