DRN-3066560
The complaint
Mr M complains Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt offered a fair amount to settle a claim he 
made on his home insurance policy, after a storm blew down a tree and damaged his 
boundary wall.
  
What happened
In February 2020, a tree blew down and damaged Mr Ms boundary wall. Mr M made a claim 
on his home insurance policy. The wall is about 40m (metres) in length.
The neighbours insurer requested 21m be demolished due to safety concerns, and to avoid
further damage in the event the wall collapsed. Aviva authorised Mr M to go ahead, and it 
paid him £1,800 for the demolition. Mr M provided two quotes for rebuilding 21m. These 
were for £13,500 and £25,300. The £13,500 quote was from the builder who had demolished 
the wall for £1,800.
Aviva later concluded the wall had already been suffering from gradual damage caused by 
movement, noting the close proximity of trees. So, Aviva only offered to cover 10m of wall 
and foundations (the area damaged by the tree). Aviva also declined the cost of removing 
three tree stumps. Aviva offered £8,000 to settle the claim (on top of the £1,800 already 
paid).
Aviva then overturned its decision to only cover 10m, on the basis it had authorised all 21m 
to be demolished. Aviva increased its offer from £8,000 to £10,500. However, Mr M noted 
£8,000 had been offered for 10m, and only £2,500 for a further 11m. He didnt consider 
Avivas offer to be fair or realistic.
Mr M also said the £13,500 quote reflected the builder not having much work around the 
start of lockdown; and it assumed the bricks could be re-used and only two tree stumps 
needed to be removed. He said the builder is no longer in the same position, not all the 
bricks can be re-used, and there are three tree stumps that need to be removed.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. Because Mr M disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining that I intended to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have carefully considered all of Mr Ms submissions. However, its not our role to comment 
on every point made. Its for me to determine the crux of the complaint, and to address the 
issues I consider relevant to its outcome. Where I havent directly commented on a point, 
this isnt intended as a discourtesy. But rather, this is simply a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it.
Mr Ms builder provided an updated quote about two months ago, which was a few months 
after our investigators assessment. This was £17,200 for 21m, including new foundations; 
plus, £600 per tree stump grinding. 
In response, Aviva told our investigator that it would accept an updated quote for 21m of wall 
and 10m of new foundations. It said it wasnt prepared to cover all the foundations as these 
werent damaged by the incident; the wall was simply taken down as a safety measure. It 
also maintained tree stump removal wasnt covered.
Aviva has accepted liability for rebuilding all 21m of the wall, so I dont need to decide that 
matter here. The items that remain are the foundations and the tree stumps. Ill address 
these in turn.
Aviva has accepted 10m of foundations were damaged by the incident, noting the part of the 
wall impacted by the tree, took the foundations with it when it collapsed. In my view, its not 
clear why the rest of the foundations need replacing. As I understand it, the rest of the wall 
was dismantled by hand, so I dont consider it likely that the foundations were damaged 
during those works.
Nonetheless, Aviva hasnt disputed the rest of the foundations need replacing, so I accept 
the existing foundations are unsuitable for the new wall to be built upon. Having accepted 
liability for all 21m of the wall, Aviva is liable for completing an effective and lasting repair. 
This has long been our approach. So, this means, if Mr Ms wall cant be rebuilt on its 
existing foundations, Aviva needs to cover the necessary foundations work.
Furthermore, Aviva is unable to do the rebuild itself due to having no contractors available in 
the area. Therefore, if Mr Ms builder is only prepared to build the replacement wall on new 
foundations, the parties are limited to that option. 
So, based on the information thats available, I intend to decide Aviva should cover 21m of 
foundations. 
I understand three tree stumps are in dispute. The policy covers the cost of removing fallen 
trees that have been partly or totally uprooted, but it excludes the cost of removing any part 
still below ground. In respect of the tree that blew down, I understand its roots remained in 
position and below ground. If so, Im satisfied removing its stump isnt covered.
Mr M says grinding the tree stumps is a necessary part of the rebuilding works. However, its 
my understanding the old foundations will be dug out and replaced with the new foundations. 
Ive not seen anything that persuades me the three adjacent tree stumps need to be ground 
down to facilitate such works, or to build the new wall. 
Mr Ms original £13,500 quote says: Tree stump to be grinded, cut or dug out or cut out to 
allow for a new foundation. This sentence alone doesnt persuade me the stumps need to 
be ground down in order to build the new foundations.
I accept grinding the stumps has been recommended, to prevent regrowth that might cause 
damage to the wall in the future. However, the policy doesnt cover preventive measures, 
and its for Mr M to maintain his home. I consider it likely the stumps would need to have 
been removed by him, irrespective of this claim, to prevent damage to the previous wall. 
Therefore, I cant reasonably decide Aviva should pick up this cost, simply because its 
replacing the old wall. Mr M is being placed back in the position he was in, before the 
incident.So, in conclusion, I intend to decide Aviva should settle the claim based on Mr Ms latest 
£17,200 quote for 21m of wall and foundations. However, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably direct Aviva to cover the tree stump grinding.
Finally, Ive considered the overall claim journey and delays in the settlement. Ive seen that 
its taken Mr M some considerable effort to obtain a fair settlement, whilst also dealing with 
pressure from external parties to have the wall repaired. To acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience caused, I intend to award £350 compensation. 
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision, but it attempted to settle the claim based on 
my intended outcome. Mr M rejected Avivas offer, as my final decision had not yet been 
reached and he disagreed with aspects of it.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr M made a relatively detailed submission. Ill set 
out the key points, under the below three headings.
Responsibility for, and management of, the repairs
- Mr M says one of the reasons he took out the policy is the insurance contract is very 
specific, that all claims and any repair work will be wholly managed and carried out 
by Aviva. He also says the policy is specifically tailored for listed and heritage 
properties.
- Mr M says he cant find a term in the policy that allows Aviva to substitute its 
obligation to manage and carry out repairs, for a cash settlement.
- Mr M says Aviva was willing to manage the repairs, but it couldnt do so because it 
didnt have any contractors available. As hes provided quotes from three builders 
who are competent and familiar with the site, he wants Aviva to manage the work 
using one of them.
- The property is a Grade II* listed building in a conservation area, and any repair work 
requires approval from the local authority and conservation officer, including approval 
of all materials and construction techniques being used. Mr M says multiple samples 
of bricks, coping stones, foundation and mortar materials will need to be supplied to 
the officer; and site inspections will be carried out during the repairs to ensure the 
approved construction techniques and materials are being used. 
- Any work to the trees, including stump removal, requires liaison with and permissions 
from the council; and there will potentially be a statutory obligation to carry out 
replacement planting. Mr M provided an email from the council to support this.
- Mr Ms neighbour is disabled, and he and his carers use the alleyway to access his 
home. Any work in the alleyway will need to be coordinated with the neighbour.
- Mr M is concerned that theres a considerable amount of management needed during 
the repairs, beyond that required from the builder who has quoted for the work. Hes 
also concerned that, as this is a historic site with local authority regulation, theres 
potential for further complications and liabilities arising during the work. He says 
having an experienced professional to deal with such issues is one of the main 
reasons he chose the policy.
- Mr M says the additional time, energy and potential further costs involved in the 
ongoing management of the claim and repairs, which would result from a cash 
settlement, isnt fair.Stump removal:
- The tree surgeon brought in by the council to clear the tree from the road, reported a 
second tree was in a dangerous condition due to the storm and it was also removed. 
After the undergrowth clearance, Aviva found a third tree stump, cut to ground level 
prior to Mr Ms ownership, next to the line of the wall. This is why three tree stumps 
are now being discussed, rather than the initial two listed in the original quote.
- Mr Ms understanding from the tree surgeon, is the stumps present a greater risk to 
the wall than the whole trees, as the growth activity will now be taking place at wall 
level. 
- The removal of the mature trees, solely to avoid damage to the wall from tree growth, 
wouldnt have been approved by the local authority. Mr M provided an email from the 
council to support this. Mr M says that such damage would typically by localised and 
it wouldnt create an immediately dangerous situation. But rather, the damage could 
be addressed by minor repairs and ongoing tree maintenance. So, he says its 
unlikely the stump removal would have been a necessary part of his ongoing 
maintenance costs before the incident.
- Mr M says the new foundations will be of concrete construction, wider and probably 
deeper, than the existing brick foundations. He also says his builders original quote 
confirms the tree stumps need to be removed to allow the new foundations to be 
constructed; not because they might cause future damage to the rebuilt wall.
- Mr M asked a structural engineer for his opinion on the works needed. He provided a 
description of the works he considered necessary, and a quote for drawing up plans. 
The works he listed included a new strip foundation; the removal of the tree stumps; 
and the potential need for a deeper foundation, if ground conditions were found to 
require it once construction began.
- Aviva confirmed that the actions advised by the structural engineer must be carried 
out. Therefore, Mr M says the foundation construction and tree stump removal are 
required by Aviva, as part of the reconstruction of the wall; and if the tree stumps 
arent removed, his reconstructed wall wont be insured under his policy.
- Mr M says, even if a builder was prepared or able to carry out the wall reconstruction 
without removing the tree stumps, hes left in a position where the tree stumps must 
now be removed in order to have an insured wall; which is a position he wasnt in 
before.
- Mr M says all parties view the removal of the tree stumps (both above and below the 
ground) as necessary, to carry out structural repairs to a standard where the wall 
may be insured, i.e. an effective and lasting repair.
Compensation and apologies:
- Avivas original conclusions on the damage werent based on a physical examination. 
They were based on photos after the unsafe section of the wall had been propped 
up; and on a visit, which took place after the demolition of 21m. Mr M is unhappy 
Aviva dismissed the witness statements about the walls pre-incident condition.
- Mr M would like Aviva to write to the people who provided witness statements and 
photos, to thank them for their time and assistance. - Mr M would also like Aviva to write to his builder to confirm its statement about the 
wall not being taken down carefully, was incorrect; and to confirm the work was 
carried out with due care.
- Mr M would like the £350 compensation to be awarded to his neighbour, who he says 
has been considerably more inconvenienced by the slow progress of the claim.
I went on to put the following points and questions to Aviva:
- The policy terms refer to homes of distinction and set out how a buildings claim will 
be settled. Unlike the more conventional policies, theres no mention of the insurer 
(i.e. Aviva) settling the claim by reinstatement or cash at its option. But rather, the 
wording says, we will settle your claim by reinstating, replacing or repairing the 
damaged part(s) of the buildings. Therefore, I explained that, at present, Im 
persuaded the policy places the emphasis on Aviva completing the repairs.
- In view of Mr Ms further submission, there will likely be additional management and 
liaison responsibilities during the repairs, which werent factored into the quotes he 
provided. I accepted Mr M never wanted to take over the work, but rather, he was 
trying to find a builder for Aviva to use. 
- I also accepted the remedial works werent particularly complex. However, given the 
potential challenges in respect of local authority approval, I explained I wasnt 
persuaded it would be fair to force the cash settlement route on Mr M.
- I explained that, as I understood it, Aviva didnt previously have contractors available 
due to lockdown. I asked Aviva whether it now had contractors available who could 
undertake the work, alongside a loss adjuster who could provide the necessary 
admin related support as the job progresses.
- I also asked Aviva, if it still doesnt have a contractor available, whether its prepared 
to contract Mr Ms builder, and again provide loss adjuster support. I said given the 
points Ive noted, if Mr M doesnt want to be responsible for the repairs, a solution 
needs to be found by Aviva.
- I said Im still not persuaded Mr Ms quote confirms the stumps need to be removed 
to facilitate the wider foundations. However, on reflection, I accepted the comments 
on the quote could be interpreted that way. I also said, in any event, it hasnt been 
disputed that the stumps need to be removed for an effective and lasting repair. 
Aviva has acknowledged this needs to be done, following Mr Ms structural 
engineers quote. 
- In my provisional decision, I considered it likely that Mr M would have always had the 
cost of removing the tree stumps as part of his general maintenance. However, I said 
I now accepted thats not the case. As per the email exchange he provided and his 
comments, the two trees which were removed following the storm, wouldnt have 
been removed but for the storm. 
- I accepted the same argument couldnt be made about the third tree stump, given it 
already existed before the storm. However, I explained that didnt matter here, as 
I intended to give the benefit of doubt, that all three tree stumps needed to be 
removed to facilitate the foundation work.- I also said that if Mr M is required to replant the trees due to their stumps being 
removed, Aviva will have to cover the replanting costs, given the stumps were 
removed to facilitate the repairs.
Aviva responded with the following:
- The claim was referred to the wrong team. Its now been referred correctly, to Avivas 
high net worth team. Aviva accepts it should have appointed a loss adjuster and 
offered reinstatement (rather than attempting to cash settle).
- Aviva says it didnt have a contractor available in the area to do the works (hence the 
cash settlement route). However, had the claim been assigned correctly in the first 
instance, although there would have been a wait, Aviva would have been able to 
assist with the works.
- Aviva has now appointed a loss adjuster, who will attend Mr Ms property and put the 
work out to tender. Aviva has confirmed that its loss adjuster will be able to source 
the relevant contractor.
- Aviva reiterated that tree stump removal is excluded by the policy terms, but it said it 
understood my view about the replanting. Aviva also said that, given the additional 
conservation concerns, it will await my final decision on this aspect of the claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its no longer disputed that 21m of wall and the corresponding foundations need to be 
reinstated. So, I wont comment further on this aspect.
Ill now turn to the tree stump removal. If damage is caused to the buildings by an uprooted 
tree, the policy covers the cost of removing the tree. However, the policy excludes the cost 
of removing any part of the tree thats still below the ground, and the cost of restoring the 
site. As such, I accept the policy doesnt directly cover the cost of grinding tree stumps. 
However, it hasnt been disputed by Aviva that the stumps need to be removed to provide an 
effective and lasting repair to the wall. So, irrespective of whether the policy directly covers 
tree stump removal, Aviva needs to undertake this work as part of its wall repairs. Im also 
still persuaded its reasonable, in the circumstances, to give Mr M the benefit of the doubt 
that the stumps need to be removed to facilitate the new foundations. Because Im of the 
opinion the foundation works are covered, this means the stumps are too. For these 
reasons, Im persuaded removing the three tree stumps should be covered.
Because Ive decided the stumps are to be removed as part of the covered works, it follows 
that if Mr M is required to replant those trees due to the removal of the stumps, Aviva will 
have to cover the replanting costs.
In respect of how the claim should be settled, Aviva has now accepted that it should have 
taken responsibility for the repairs from the outset. Its agreed to appoint a loss adjuster, 
source a contractor, and manage the works. I consider that to be fair. However, I dont consider it reasonable for Mr M to have to start again, in terms of disputing 
what works are required. Therefore, unless Mr M agrees otherwise, Avivas scope of works 
will need to follow Mr Ms original £13,500 quote, along with the amendments which were 
accounted for by the updated £19,000 quote.
Im mindful that Mr M may prefer Aviva to contract his builder, given hes familiar with the site 
and the required work. However, Aviva wont have to use Mr Ms builder if it prefers to use its 
own contractor. Therefore, if Mr M wants to use his builder, but Aviva prefers to use its own 
contractor, Mr M will need to accept the cash settlement. If so, Avivas involvement in, and 
responsibility for the repairs, will end. Ive increased the cash settlement from £17,200 to 
£19,000, to account for the three tree stumps (£600 per stump).
If, on the other hand, Aviva decides to use Mr Ms builder rather sourcing its own contractor, 
it will need to contract Mr Ms builder directly, and it will remain responsible for overseeing 
the job and the standard of the work.
Mr M has been caused a great deal of inconvenience and upset, and the repairs have been 
significantly delayed, due to the incorrect routing of his claim. Its taken Mr M considerable 
effort to find a builder, and to get Aviva to take responsibility for the repairs. Those issues 
could have been avoided. Given the impact of the claim being incorrectly routed, Im not 
persuaded £350 compensation goes far enough. Im increasing the award to £800.
Mr M would like Aviva to thank the people who provided information in support of his claim, 
and to apologise to his builder for an incorrect statement. However, thats not something 
I require. Im not persuaded Avivas actions adversely impacted those individuals. 
I accept what Mr M says about the impact on his neighbour. However, Mr M is free to pass 
on the compensation to his neighbour, if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision 
and follow up correspondence, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Aviva Insurance Limited should:
- A) cover 21m of wall and the corresponding foundations; and cover the removal of 
the three tree stumps  the scope of works should follow Mr Ms £13,500 and 
£19,000 quotes;
- B) appoint a contractor to undertake the part A works and a loss adjuster to provide 
support as the job progresses (or, if Mr M prefers, he can accept the £19,000 cash 
settlement)  both settlement options are subject to the policy excess;
- C) cover the replanting costs, if Mr M is required to replant any of the three trees due 
to the removal of their stumps; and
- D) pay Mr M £800 compensation
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman