DRN-2010202
The complaint
Miss M complains Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans irresponsibly lent to her 
on a number of occasions. She says because of its decision to lend; Likely Loans has 
caused her financial detriment as she has had to pay for additional interest and charges.
What happened
Miss M was approved for three separate loans by Likely Loans. They can be summarised as 
below:
Miss M says the loans were unaffordable to her at the point she took them out. She says had 
Likely Loans completed further checks it wouldve seen this and not lent to her. Miss M says 
she had a number of existing credit commitments when applying for the loans including other 
unsecured loans, credit cards and store cards. She also says she had defaults and was 
experiencing financial difficulties as a result of these outgoing commitments.
Likely Loans responded to Miss Ms complaint rejecting it. It says it completed proportionate 
checks before approving Miss M for her loans. It says it completed income and expenditure 
checks which showed the loans were affordable. Likely Loans also says it reviewed Miss Ms 
credit file and was therefore aware of her financial situation. It says these checks were 
proportionate at each application stage and therefore its decision to lend was fair.
Our investigator didnt recommend this complaint be upheld. He felt the checks conducted 
were proportionate. In the course of our services investigation Miss M also provided her 
bank statements. Our investigator reviewed these as part of the assessment and felt they 
showed the loans were affordable to Miss M.
Miss M disagreed with this assessment and asked the matter to be passed to a final 
decision. She responded to our investigators view maintaining the loans were unaffordable; 
and that her bank statements demonstrated that she was left with a very low amount at the 
end of each month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Date Amount Term Monthly repayment
July 2016 £3,000.00 24 months £227.89
May 2018 £4,000.00 24 months £303.85
June 2019 £4,372.25 18 months £338.48Id like to start by assuring Miss M that Ive carefully considered all of the information she has 
provided, both before and after our investigator completed his assessment. However, having 
considered all of the information and evidence on file, Im not upholding this complaint. This 
is broadly for the same reasons as our investigator set out in his assessment. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint. Bearing in mind 
the dispute before me, I think that there are two overarching questions that I need to 
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Miss Ms complaint. These are:
1. Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss M, to satisfy 
itself that she was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
a. If so, did it make a fair decision to lend? 
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Miss M would have been able to 
do so?
2. Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Ill deal with each question in turn
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss M, to satisfy itself 
that she was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
Before setting out my decision in relation to each loan it is important to note that Likely 
Loans needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to understand if 
any lending was affordable to Miss M. The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks 
it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could 
include things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their 
outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. The checks also need to be borrower focused.
Loan one  July 2016
Loan one was taken out in July 2016 and was £3,000. It had a term of 24 months and 
repayments of approximately £227. Miss M says at this time she was experiencing financial 
difficulties and the loans were unaffordable to her.
Likely Loans asked Miss M for her income  which Miss M declared as being just under 
£36,000 per year. It also checked Miss Ms credit file. This search showed Miss M had a 
total debt at that time of approximately £12,5000. It also showed she had defaults in the 
past, and she had a balance left on these defaults. It says the search showed the rest of 
Miss Ms active accounts were being managed in line with expectations. Likely Loans says 
these checks were proportionate and showed the loan was affordable to Miss M. 
I agree with Likely Loans that these checks were proportionate in this instance. The checks 
showed that Miss M had a low income to debt ratio, and that in recent months she had been 
maintaining her credit commitments reasonably well. There was no evidence on file which 
would cast doubt on Miss Ms declared income, and the checks showed this was loan was 
affordable to her. 
Loan two  May 2018Miss M took out a further loan with Likely Loans in May 2018. This was for a capital amount 
of £4,000 was also to be repaid over 24 months. Again, Likely Loans checked Miss Ms 
credit file and asked for her income. At this point Miss M declared her income had gone up 
to approximately £37,000. The credit file check showed that since the first loan had been 
taken that Miss M had had a CCJ registered against her for approximately £2,300. There 
was also a default for a mail order account in 2017. Likely Loans says that even taking these 
events into account Miss M had enough disposable income to meet the loan repayments. It 
therefore says its checks were proportionate.
Ive carefully considered this argument, however I disagree they were. In this instance Miss 
Ms credit report has shown issues managing credit her credit commitments in the recent 
months, and most importantly since the first loan was taken with Likely Loans.
Although defaults and negative markers are not themselves always sufficient to decline 
application; Im satisfied that they were sufficiently recent that it shouldve prompted Likely 
Loans to have conducted further checks in order to satisfy itself that Miss M could meet the 
repayments in a sustainable way. It follows that I therefore dont agree Likely Loans 
completed proportionate checks in relation to loan two. 
Loan three  June 2019
Miss M applied for a further loan in June 2019. This loan settled loan two and gave her a 
further capital amount. The total capital amount was approximately £4,300 and was to be 
repaid over 18 months.
Likely Loans says it asked for Miss Ms income  which had increased to approximately 
£53,000. It says it verified this income via an online tool and bank account data. It also 
completed a check on her credit file and used an internal credit scoring system to proceed 
with her application. At the point of applying for this loan Miss M had a total credit balance of 
£13,700 (approximately) and the CCJ and default from her previous loan were still present 
(albeit reduced in amount). It says after completing these checks, Miss M had sufficient 
disposable income to meet the payments, and as such its checks were proportionate. 
Ive highlighted above why I felt further checks were needed for Miss Ms second loan; and it 
follows that as further money is lent that Likely Loans should complete further checks. I 
appreciate it says it verified Miss Ms income via an online tool which takes bank account 
data, but there are still sufficient negative markers to prompt Likely Loans to go further in its 
checks of Miss M.
In this instance as loan three was settling loan two, and only a small amount of capital was 
being received by Miss M, Im satisfied further checks shouldve been completed in order to 
satisfy itself that Miss M was in a position to sustainably repay this increased amount. It 
follows that I dont think proportionate checks were completed on this loan either. 
Would further checks have shown that Miss M was in a position to sustainably repay the 
loans?
Loan one  July 2016
Ive explained above that Im satisfied proportionate checks were completed in relation to 
loan one. As such Im satisfied Likely Loans decision to lend in relation to this loan was fair, 
and I make no further finding in relation to it.
Loan two - May 2018Ive set out above why Im not satisfied Likely Loans completed proportionate checks for this 
loan. Im persuaded it shouldve done more to verify Miss Ms income and expenditure and 
thereby get a better understanding of her financial circumstances. It couldve done this 
through requesting proof her outgoings such as bills, or by requesting bank statements. In 
this instance Miss M has supplied both our service and Likely Loans with copies of her bank 
statements from the time of the loan. Ive used this information to decide whether further 
checks wouldve shown the loan was likely affordable.
Miss M says the statements show she was managing her finances to a very tight budget; 
and that she wasnt left with a sufficient enough amount of disposable income each month to 
meet all of her outgoings.
Ive carefully considered Miss Ms points; however, I disagree with them. In this instance the 
statements appear to show Miss M did have sufficient disposable income to meet her 
outgoing commitments. Looking through the statements Miss M is managing her finances to 
a relatively tight budget. However, she does have a positive balance throughout the time 
period. There are times where she is transferring monies into the account. But I can see 
there is a relatively regular split between essential and non-essential expenditure. This does 
not suggest Miss M couldnt have afforded the loan at the time it was applied for.  
Ive got to consider whether the evidence suggests Likely Loans wouldve likely still lent to 
Miss M. In this instance, whilst I understand Miss Ms points, I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to say Likely Loans wouldnt have lent to her, or that it wouldve been 
unreasonable to do so.
Loan three  June 2019
Similar to loan two; Ive set out why I dont agree proportionate checks were completed for 
loan three. Im persuaded it shouldve done more to verify Miss Ms income and expenditure 
and thereby get a better understanding of her financial circumstances. It couldve done this 
through requesting proof her outgoings such as bills, or by requesting bank statements
In relation to loan three, Miss M maintains that she couldnt afford the loan and that she was 
relying on other income to maintain her balance. Similar to loan two her bank statements 
have been provided and Ive used these when coming to my conclusion.
Again, these statements show a positive balance throughout the time leading up to the loan 
application. I agree Miss M is managing her finances to a budget, however there is again a 
mixture of expenditure. There are also signs that she is reducing her existing credit 
commitments as her CCJ has reduced in debt. Ive looked through her outgoings and 
compared this to her income in the months leading up to the loan (including Miss Ms other 
credit); and Im satisfied there was sufficient income to meet her required expenditure. It 
follows that Im satisfied Likely Loans decision to lend in this instance was reasonable. 
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied that Likely Loans acted reasonably and fairly 
when dealing with Miss Ms loans. In particular, I can see when her financial circumstances 
changed, Likely Loans agreed a repayment plan with Miss M. This is what our service would 
expect in similar situations. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman