DRN-1925905
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund a payment made on his credit card in 
relation to some items he purchased through a third-party platform.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr A rang Barclays about a transaction he was considering using his credit 
card for. After the call Mr A bought some decorative walls using his Barclays Credit Card 
from abroad. The total cost being just over £1000. When he received the goods Mr A felt 
they werent of the standard he expected. So he contacted the Merchant of the goods but 
wasnt successful in sorting out the dispute. So Mr A asked Barclays to help.
Barclays looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. It felt the circumstances 
meant it couldnt do a chargeback and that the particular relationships in place in this 
transaction meant that Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 didnt apply. Mr A 
complained but Barclays didnt feel it should do any more.
Mr A didnt think this was fair, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly by declining Mr 
As request for a refund. Mr A didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I start I should make one point particularly clear. This decision is about what Barclays 
did or didnt do. It is not about the Merchant, or the Platform or indeed any other party. I can 
only decide in this decision whether Barclays did anything wrong, and if so, what it should do 
to remedy the situation. I hope this is sufficiently clear.
Mr A feels the crux of this matter is that he called Barclays before entering the transaction for 
these goods and that he relied on what it told him and hes since lost out. Ive considered the 
call. Mr A asks about making transactions abroad and whether he is protected under S75 for 
such transactions as he would be here in England. The Barclays representative says that he 
is protected the same as for transactions here. This is true and the Barclays representative 
doesnt give incorrect advice on this point. What Mr A fails to mention is that the transaction 
he is considering is through a third party. So although Mr A says he relied on this call it isnt 
Barclays fault that what turns out to be the crucial issue here (the third-party involvement) 
isnt mentioned. What Barclays told Mr A about S75 in answering his question was correct, 
so it hasnt made a mistake here. 
Mr A then made the transaction using his Barclays Credit Card. Ive considered his account 
statement and can see the payment was paid to the third-party platform. It wasnt paid to the 
Merchant of the goods directly.
Ive also considered the terms and conditions of the third-party platform. These make clear 
that the platform is an introducer website for buyers to meet sellers and vice versa. These 
terms make clear that all buyers and sellers have to become members. And it doesnt 
represent either sellers or buyers but rather provides services to enable its members to trade 
with each other directly. It also provides various other services including with regards to 
enabling transactions to take place between different parties in different geographies. 
So although this platform provides a service here to Mr A it isnt for the provision of the items 
he purchased directly. But rather it provides membership, introductory and payment services 
which are either funded through subscriptions or charges. So the services provided by the 
platform to Mr A are different and distinct to those provided by the Merchant to Mr A here-
namely the provision of the goods purchased.
could Barclays challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr A does 
here, Barclays (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I dont 
think Barclays couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr A didnt authorise the 
transaction considering what we know here and particularly what Mr A says.
Barclays is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. 
Barclays told Mr A that it couldnt raise a chargeback and it didnt do so. It points to Mr A not 
returning the goods to the Merchant and other issues. Im not persuaded by Barclays 
reasoning here, but I dont think a chargeback would have led to Mr A being refunded his 
money. Firstly Mr A paid the money to the platform and it provided its services to him. So it 
hasnt done anything wrong. And as the platforms terms and conditions makes clear it 
doesnt represent either party or accept any liability for the transactions it facilitates-and this 
is the agreement Mr A made when he chose to use its services. So on balance I think any 
chargeback would have been unsuccessful as the platform would have been able to show it 
provided the service it said it would. So I dont think Barclays needs to do anything more with 
regard to this chargeback issue.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr As Barclays credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against Barclays as he does against 
the supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This 
requires a certain type of three-party agreement to be in place often referred to as DCS 
(Debtor, Creditor, Supplier).
Having considered what has happened in Mr As case and particularly the platforms terms 
and conditions there is a DCS arrangement between Mr A, Barclays and the Platform, albeit 
not for the direct provision of the goods themselves. Instead, the Platform supplies a service. 
The service consists of the platform itself and membership services and thus the introduction 
to other members (either buyers or sellers). So if Mr A was complaining about the platforms 
services then there is a DCS relationship about that. But he isnt.
Mr A is complaining about the goods he purchased from the Merchant. The Platforms terms 
and conditions makes clear it doesnt represent its members (buyers or sellers) in any 
capacity. So its not a case here that the Platform is acting as agent of the Merchant or 
indeed of Mr A. It is acting as an introducer for those who want to buy and/or sell. And it provides payment services to facilitate the direct contractual arrangements between buyers 
and sellers.
I can see that the payment made here to the Merchant is not a direct payment from Mr A. Mr 
A made payment direct the Platform using his credit card. The Platform then makes a 
separate payment to an intermediary bank (the Platform having taken its payment for its 
services already) which is then paid to the Merchants account held with another bank 
including currency changes (and fees for those services) along the way. And as Ive 
described already the Platform isnt part of the direct agreements between buyers and 
sellers to buy and sell goods. Accordingly Im not persuaded that the appropriate DCS 
relationship is established here with regard to the goods Mr A purchased (as opposed to the 
services provided by the platform). I think the arrangements here are too tenuous with 
regard to the provision of the goods to establish a DCS type arrangement. Accordingly I 
dont think Barclays has done anything wrong by not refunding this particular transaction on 
Mr As credit card.
Lastly I should mention that Barclays paid Mr A £75 for things it felt it could have done better 
in its interactions with him. Considering those specific issues I dont think Barclays has 
anything further to do as I think its actions here are fair. Im not persuaded by Mr As point 
that dealing with Barclays led him to miss out elsewhere. Ive considered the Platforms 
terms and Im not persuaded Barclays has led to Mr A losing out on this. The Platform has 
its own processes for disputes amongst members and I dont think what Barclays did makes 
a difference there.
So having considered everything I think that Mr A hasnt lost out here due to Barclays not 
raising a chargeback as I think it would have been unsuccessful had it been made. And Im 
not persuaded that there is the appropriate arrangement in place with regard to purchase of 
the goods Mr A bought to create a DCS relationship where Barclays could be held 
responsible for the goods supplied.
And I think Barclays correctly applied the transaction made to Mr As credit card account. 
And I dont think Barclays said anything to Mr A which was untrue which led him to make a 
transaction he otherwise wouldnt have done. So I dont think I can fairly require Barclays to 
refund Mr A for the goods he bought. As a consequence this complaint is unsuccessful. 
However I do appreciate that this isnt the result Mr A was looking for. I understand from 
what he has said Mr A is faced with a very difficult situation currently. And Im very sorry to 
hear that. But for me to uphold this case against Barclays Id need to be persuaded it has 
done something which has led to Mr A suffering some form of loss. And Im not persuaded it 
did. So this complaint doesnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman