DRN-2069785
The complaint
Mr V complains that Nationwide Building Society reported his account as dormant with credit 
reference agencies without informing him it would do this.
What happened
Mr V had a credit card account with Nationwide. He says he received an alert from his credit 
report company informing him his credit report had been negatively impacted by his account 
with Nationwide. 
He says he looked into this and discovered that because he hadnt been using the account 
and the balance was zero, Nationwide had classified his account as dormant. This dormant 
status was reported by Nationwide to credit reference agencies and he says it has had a 
negative impact on his credit rating. He complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide investigated his complaint. It said its policy and procedure was to report an 
account as dormant where it had a zero balance and hadnt been used in the last two 
months. It said Mr Vs account had been reported as dormant when it met this description. 
So, it hadnt done anything wrong when it correctly reported the status as dormant. It also 
said it couldnt comment on how this might affect Mr Vs credit score. It said that credit score 
calculations were complex, and each credit reference agency and credit institution scored 
and viewed everything differently. It didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr V complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. She thought that 
Nationwide had acted in line with its own policy and had reported the status of the account 
according to how it had been used. She said it wasnt for our service to interfere with the 
businesss policy or procedures.
She said that the meaning of dormant was that the account hadnt been used and nothing 
was owed. It also meant the lender hadnt been able to provide information on the payment 
history for that month. She thought this was an accurate description of Mr Vs usage of the 
account.
Our investigator also considered what Mr V had said about how this had negatively impacted 
his credit score. She said there was no evidence to say that Nationwides information would 
solely have caused any applications for credit to be rejected. So, she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr V didnt agree. He said that although he hadnt lost anything as a result of what had 
happened, he thought it was reasonable to expect Nationwide to tell him about the dormant 
marker before it had recorded it. Because Mr V didnt agree the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a customer has a credit card account the lender will share information with credit 
reference agencies each month about how the account is being managed.
I can see that Nationwide has a leaflet, How Nationwide uses your information, which it 
makes publicly available on its website. This leaflet sets out how, why and when personal 
information is processed by Nationwide. It includes a section explaining that when providing 
services, such as a card, Nationwide will share information with credit reference agencies.  
Mr V says he would reasonably have expected Nationwide to tell him it would record the 
dormant marker with credit reference agencies, before it recorded it. And, he says he has 
other credit cards which he hasnt used but theyve not been reported as dormant.
It is the case that the leaflet, referred to above, doesnt detail how or when a dormant 
account marker can be applied to an account. And, Nationwide didnt tell Mr V that it was 
going to report his account as dormant. But, as stated in the leaflet, information is shared 
with credit reference agencies so that other lenders have a clear picture of the customers 
credit history and how the account has been managed. So, I think Nationwide acted fairly 
and reasonably when it shared information with credit reference agencies about how the 
account was managed.
Different lenders may approach their data sharing obligations in different ways. But that 
doesnt mean Nationwide isnt entitled to have its own policies and procedures regarding 
how it reports this information. When it reports information, it should ensure that it is 
accurate.
There is information provided with the credit report which Mr V has shared with us which 
sets out the various status codes and markers that can be used when information is shared 
with credit reference agencies.
One of the codes listed is D. The information provided says this means:
The account is not being used and nothing is owed. The lender has not been able to 
provide information on the payment history for this month.
Having looked at the activity on Mr Vs credit card account I can see that he didnt use it 
between May 2019 and August 2019. And, during that time, the balance was zero. So, the 
description D correctly described the status of the account during this period.
Im satisfied the dormancy marker was an accurate description of Mr Vs account. And, I 
dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when it reported the status of the account as 
dormant.
Ive also thought about what Mr V has said concerning how this information negatively 
impacted his credit score. Information recorded with credit reference agencies can impact on 
credit scores. But thats not something Nationwide can dictate. Lenders approach credit 
scoring in different ways. Nationwide has reported the information accurately. Its up to each 
lender to decide how to use that information when calculating a credit score for lending 
purposes.
So, having considered everything here, Im satisfied Nationwide has acted fairly and 
reasonably. And I dont require it to take any action.My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman