DRN-3146169
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC treated her in relation to a cash deposit 
she made in one of its branches.
What happened
Mrs H is represented in her complaint, but to keep things simple, Ill refer to everything thats 
been said on her behalf as if Mrs H had said it herself.
Mrs H tells us that in June 2021 she went to one of Barclays branches to pay in some cash. 
She indicates that a member of staff took the cash from her over the counter. Mrs Hs 
position is that she paid in a little over £1,000 and wanted a receipt. But she suggests she 
was told receipts were not provided and that she could check later on using her banking app 
if she wanted to make sure that the money was showing up as deposited into her account. 
Mrs H suggests she was dissatisfied with this but went along with it as she had no other 
choice. At the same time Mrs H also made a second cash deposit into a second account she 
had with Barclays.
Later that same day she checked her account using her app only to find, she tells us, that 
her statement said she had paid in a cheque for a completely different amount (a lesser 
amount). The very next day Mrs H went back to the bank branch. However, rather than 
getting the help she expected she suggests she was asked irrelevant questions and that the 
staff at the branch behaved inappropriately and made it clear they did not accept her version 
of events. Moreover, English is not Mrs Hs first language and she suggests the branch staff 
took advantage of this to sidestep the issue and not take her seriously and make her feel 
small. Finally, Mrs H was asked to leave the branch. Mrs H suggests this was again because 
English is not her first language.
Mrs H complained to Barclays she asked for:
A full investigation.
A detailed explanation of what had gone wrong and why.
A particular member of staff to be reprimanded.
A full apology.
Moreover, Mrs H complains that Barclays said it would come back to her then did not 
initially. Further she complains that then it took too long to respond to her and when it did 
respond she found its response was not satisfactory as it did not deal with all the points she 
wanted it to look at.
Barclays tells us that the notes were placed in what it calls a TAU system. It says it looked at 
the CCTV footage for the day in question and all the notes were put into the system by its 
member of staff. It also tells us that the TAU system balanced on the relevant day. It adds 
that the member of staff who paid in the money for Mrs H remembers talking to her at the 
time. That staff member says they confirmed the amount that Mrs H had paid in with them at 
the time and Mrs H agreed this was correct. Its version of events is it was only the following 
day that Mrs H came back to it and said there had been a mistake. In a call with Mrs H it said 
that sometimes, mistakenly it recorded cash deposits as cheque deposits.
According to Barclays when cash is paid in, in this way two receipts are automatically 
generated, one for the customer one for the bank. Therefore, if Mrs H had wanted a receipt 
she could have had one. That said, it is not its policy to routinely offer a receipt.
Further, Barclays suggests it dealt with Mrs Hs complaint correctly and called her to let her 
know the outcome of her complaint and also wrote to her. And it suggests its responses 
were given in good time.
Mrs H remained dissatisfied and therefore she came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Hs complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Barclays accepted this recommendation, Mrs H did not. In summary her response was she 
questioned why she was not given a receipt. She did not accept that the member of staff at 
the counter had confirmed with her the amount she was paying in. She pointed out that if 
Barclays could mistakenly note down cash deposits as being cheque deposits, why was it a 
stretch to believe it could also have made a mistake about the amount she had deposited. 
She suggested we were excusing Barclays for the mistakes it had made.
Further, Mrs H reiterated that she had, in her opinion been treated unfairly when she went to 
the bank branch the second time. She did not agree that her behaviour was inappropriate, 
and she disagreed that the bank had any proper grounds for asking her to leave the branch. 
She pointed out the CCTV footage could easily demonstrate that what she is saying about 
how she behaved is correct. And she wanted to know if we had watched the CCTV footage 
ourselves. Mrs H also wanted to know why the CCTV footage could show that all the notes 
were paid in but could not also show all the denominations of the notes that she gave to the 
member of staff.
In addition, Mrs H suggested we had enough information in favour of her version of events to 
uphold her complaint. Finally, Mrs H reiterated that Barclays had treated her unfairly.
Mrs H asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs H was depositing a lot of cash into her account both parties agree about that. In general, 
when cash is being deposited especially if it is a one-off transaction the person who is 
paying in the cash will be very careful. Although it is not clear whether this was a normal 
activity for Mrs H or something she did rarely.  I think if Mrs H had been offered a receipt she 
would have taken one. But on balance, given this was not Barclays policy I dont think she 
was offered a receipt. But equally I dont think she asked for one, the receipt was 
automatically generated, it she had asked for one I think she would have been given it, after all it was right there it seems. However, I dont think Mrs H and the staff member did have a 
quick chat about the amount she paid in, if they had done so I think Mrs H would not have 
come in the next day to dispute the amount.
That said, I realise there were two cash transactions and it is possible that Mrs H made a 
genuine mistake about how much was going into each account because the total amount 
she deposited between the two accounts appears to be very close to the approximately 
£1,000 she says she deposited in the first account alone.
I also take on board that Mrs H suggests that the CCTV footage could be the key to all of 
this. But that footage is no longer available, and Im not surprised it is not the policy of most 
banks to keep footage for this length of time even where there is a dispute. But even if the 
footage was available, I doubt it would be quite the help that Mrs H seems to think it would 
be. Banks are very careful about where they position these cameras so that they dont 
inadvertently film sensitive private data such as PIN numbers for example. I find it likely that 
the CCTV camera was positioned in a way that it would have picked up if the member of 
staff was underhandedly trying to secret money away rather than paying it in, or accidently 
dropped notes for example but far enough away that it could not pick up the denomination of 
the notes.
The TAU balanced according to Barclays and I have no reason to doubt what it says about 
this. It is in banks best interests to be vigilant about cash balances and to have processes in 
place to identify and deal with cash imbalances. So, if Mrs H had paid in one amount but the 
receipt showed a different amount, I think that the TAU would not have balanced.
It does seem puzzling that Barclays might sometimes note down a cash deposit as a cheque 
deposit. It has not explained why this should be and it is therefore understandable that Mrs H 
finds this dissatisfying. She is entitled to expect precision from a bank. But just because the 
nature of the transaction might have been incorrectly recorded it does not automatically 
follow that the amount of the transaction is also likely to have been incorrectly recorded. 
Especially given the systems Barclays had in place to assist it with balancing the TAU.
For all of these reasons I am not persuaded that Barclays made an accounting mistake and 
did not credit Mrs H with the full amount she deposited.
I can well imagine how frustrating and unfair it would feel to be treated less well due to 
English not being ones first language. Moreover, I also can well imagine that such feelings 
of unfairness would be compounded if Mrs H also thought that negative assumptions were 
being made about her because she is not a native English speaker. Sad to say, I expect Mrs 
H may have experienced such treatment in the past and she would know what that felt like. 
Given, amongst other things, its approach to diversity and respect for its customers, it would 
follow that that Barclays would be dissatisfied too, if its staff treated customers in this way. In 
any event Mrs H is entitled to expect that Barclays would take such claims seriously. I regret 
to hear that Mrs H was left feeling like that. I think here in relation to this specific complaint 
point, shes correct the CCTV footage might have been helpful. 
That said Barclays is entitled to expect that its customers treat its staff with respect. And 
given that a branch is a customer facing business I think asking a customer to leave the 
premises would be a last not a first resort for the staff in that branch. This part of Mrs Hs 
complaint is very finely balanced. I have thought very hard about whether it is likely Barclays 
would have behaved in the same way if Mrs Hs first language was English. I recognise that 
Mrs H might have been upset about what she thought was the mishandling of her money, 
thats understandable and I think Barclays should have taken that into account. But Mrs H 
has not said specifically what was said or done by Barclays that made her think it was 
fobbing her off and asking her to leave only because English is not her native language. On 
balance, Im not satisfied she was treated unfairly due to being a non-native English 
speaker. But I dont doubt that she genuinely felt this was the reason for her treatment and I 
understand that that could and most likely did hurt.It appears that Mrs H is no longer complaining about how Barclays dealt with her complaint. 
But just in case I am mistaken about this I have taken a look at what most likely happened 
here. It seems, according to Barclays records (which I have seen) and according to a call 
recording between Mrs H and Barclays (which I have listened to) that early on Mrs H got 
both a letter and telephone call from Barclays explaining its stance. Then later she got at 
least one follow-up letters which repeated Barclays position. Mrs H suggests Barclays 
ignored her but the contact that I have mentioned does not suggest she was ignored. 
Neither do I agree that her complaint points were not dealt with based on the 
communications I have seen.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman