DRN-3843076
The complaint
Mrs C complains that an insurance broker, Grove & Dean Ltd (G&D), acted unfairly when 
she purchased a car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs C purchased a car insurance policy via G&D using an insurance comparison website. 
Following the purchase, G&D contacted Mrs C to validate the information she provided. 
During this call, G&D amended Mrs Cs parking selection from private property to a car 
park. G&D informed Mrs C that, due to this change, the insurer would no longer offer cover 
and the broker provided an alternative quote from a different insurer. Because the new quote 
was higher, Mrs C decided to cancel the policy instead and paid a cancellation fee of £30 
(reduced from £55).
Mrs C complained because she had to pay a cancellation fee, given it was the amendment 
that G&D made that increased her premium and led to her deciding to cancel. She also 
disagrees with G&Ds interpretation of where she parks her car and remains of the view that 
the location satisfies the definition of private property. 
G&D responded that it had acted fairly in the way it handled the validation of the policy. The 
broker added that its cancellation terms were set out clearly when Mrs C purchased the 
policy and stands by its decision to define the parking location as a car park. 
Remaining unhappy, Mrs C asked for this service to carry out an independent review of her 
complaint. Our investigator concluded that the broker had acted fairly and that the 
cancellation fee was reasonable. Mrs C didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Its not unreasonable that G&D contacted Mrs C to validate the information she had given. 
Its the brokers responsibility to ensure all the information it provides to the insurer is 
accurate, as this prevents problems during potential claims. During the call, G&D says it 
established that Mrs C would be keeping her car in a car park, so it decided to amend the 
details to reflect this. 
Mrs C remains adamant that the location she keeps her car satisfies the definition of private 
property and says that G&D shouldnt have made the amendment. I can understand where 
Mrs C is coming from  the car park she uses is part of a private housing area and the 
signage at this location points to it being private land, for use by residents only. However, I 
think the purpose of this signage is to mainly manage parking in the area and deter anyone 
who isnt a resident from using the car park.
G&D sent us the policy definition of private property. Although the car park Mrs C uses may 
be considered as private land, it doesnt satisfy the definition under the policy  which 
defines it as an off-road area for exclusive use by the owner and where accessing the area 
could be interpreted as trespass. It doesnt seem to me that Mrs C has exclusive use of the 
car park area and, although non-residents are restricted from parking, the area still allows 
access by third parties, whether they are residents or not. 
Therefore, the risk is considered differently by the insurer, as other road users have open 
access to the area and operate their vehicles closer to Mrs Cs car. So I think G&D acted 
fairly when it amended the parking selection to car park instead. Also, I can see that G&Ds 
options do not differentiate between public and private car parks, so Im satisfied that the 
amendment the broker made was reasonable.
Mrs C is unhappy with the cancellation charge she had to pay. However, I can see that G&D 
presented its cancellation fees clearly to Mrs C before she completed her purchase. So Im 
satisfied that the broker made her aware of what shed have to pay if she decided to cancel. 
G&D decided to reduce the cancellation fee it charged Mrs C from £55 to £30. I think this is 
fair and proportionate to the costs involved in setting up and cancelling the policy. So I wont 
be asking G&D to refund the fee it charged.
For these reasons, Ive decided that G&D acted fairly, so I wont be asking it to carry out any 
further action in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman