DRN-3779945
The complaint
Miss B complains that the agreement she reached with Nationwide Building Society to pay a 
small amount of arrears on her mortgage was then reported to credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) as an arrangement to pay, which meant she couldnt get a mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Miss B said that in 2021 she sold her house and had an offer accepted on another. She had 
an existing mortgage with Nationwide, and an offer in place for her planned purchase with a 
different lender. She said that offer expired due to some delays in the purchase, and her 
broker wasnt able to get her another offer, because she failed the credit check. Miss B said 
her credit file showed shed been in an arrangement to pay with Nationwide from August 
2020 to March 2021. 
Miss B said she was told by Nationwide in August 2020 that she was in mortgage arrears of 
£656.84. She said shed always overpaid, so she didnt think that was right. She didnt think 
she had missed any payments. But she said she believed the staff, and agreed to a payment 
arrangement. 
Miss B said she was never told that this arrangement would affect her credit file. She 
complained to Nationwide about this in March 2022, saying this was stopping her from 
getting a new mortgage. Miss B said Nationwide refused to remove the marks on her credit 
file. So on 31 March 2022 just after 1pm she called Nationwide and spoke to it about each 
payment for the above period. 
Miss B said she was told then that her payment had been made from her overpayment 
reserve, and the only month the reserve was not sufficient was in June 2020. Miss B said 
Nationwides agent told her this should not have resulted in her being placed into an 
arrangement. And she said that on the same day, she got an email saying her credit file was 
being updated. 
Miss B said Nationwide then wrote again to say it still thought it was fair for it to have put this 
information on her credit file, but it would do what it had offered to do, and remove it. 
Miss B said that wasnt enough to make up for what had gone wrong. She said shed been 
affected emotionally, with stress and sleepless nights because she couldnt get a mortgage 
for the new home shed hoped to buy. She said shed lost the house, which meant that she 
lost survey fees, solicitor fees, estate agent fees, and a valuation fee, adding up to over 
£3,600. Miss B said Nationwide should have been aware that her account should never have 
been placed in an arrangement, so her credit file shouldnt have been affected. She wanted 
Nationwide to cover her financial loss, and pay £3,000 for her emotional distress
Nationwide sent two letters in response to Miss Bs complaint. The first one said Miss B had 
missed several payments, and it had written to tell her she was in arrears. Nationwide said 
that setting up a payment plan for her in 2020 wasnt a mistake. It had written to her in 
August 2020 to tell her this arrangement would be reported to CRAs and would stay on her 
credit file for 6 years.
Then Nationwide wrote again. It acknowledged its collections team had sent her a letter 
agreeing to remove the arrangement from her credit file. The collections team had done this 
because Miss B said she hadnt been informed that being in an arrangement would affect 
her credit file. But the person who wrote to Miss B said hed listened to the relevant call from 
August 2020, and she was told three times that this arrangement would affect her file. So 
although the collections team had decided to remove the marker, Nationwide still wouldnt 
uphold her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He set out the history of Miss 
Bs mortgage, including that Miss B was making the payments, but the mortgage was 
actually in joint names until April 2021. He said Miss B didnt pay her monthly payment in 
March 2020. Her account was in credit by a modest amount, a bit less than a monthly 
payment, so that covered part of what she owed. And shed paid the rest off the next month. 
But that did reduce the amount Miss B held as an overpayment reserve. Miss B then missed 
her payment for June, and was left with arrears of just under one monthly payment. 
Our investigator said Miss B discussed repayment of these arrears on a call with Nationwide 
on 4 August 2020. He set out the content of that call, and said he couldnt agree that Miss B 
wasnt made aware that entering an arrangement to pay her arrears would affect her credit 
file. This had been mentioned to Miss B three times. 
Nationwides collections team then relied on what Miss B said about this call, when it 
decided to repair her credit file. But that team hadnt actually listened to the call. So our 
investigator didnt ask Nationwide to do any more than it had offered to do. 
Miss B replied to say that she wanted us to listen to another call. She said shed also 
complained that staff at Nationwide were negligent in the first instance by placing her in an 
arrangement. She said she knew shed made overpayments, and was surprised to have 
such a debt. 
So Miss B referred again to her telephone conversation with Nationwide on 31 March 2022, 
when she went through all of her payments. Miss B said she was told then that she should 
not have been placed in an arrangement for one months missed payment. And she said that 
was when Nationwide changed its mind, and emailed to say it would be amending her credit 
file.
Miss B wanted us to listen to that call. She still thought Nationwide had caused the loss of 
her property, because it put an arrangement on her credit file that shouldnt have been there. 
Our investigator said that hed listened to a call from 31 March, and from 1 April, but those 
didnt change his mind. He still thought that on the call on 4 August, the Nationwide adviser 
made it clear that the arrangement would affect her credit file, and Miss B had acknowledged 
that, although this was undesirable, she understood this. Nationwide confirmed this in writing 
the next day. 
Miss B still didnt agree, she said that neither of the calls our investigator had listened to, 
was the one she was referring to. Miss B showed us evidence that she had made a call on 
31 March 2002 which wasnt the call recording we held. But our investigator said that 
Nationwide had looked for this call already, and couldnt find it. He also said this was unlikely 
to change his view. Because no agreement was reached, this case was then passed to me 
for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Ive listened carefully to the call from 4 August 2020 on which Miss B set up her arrangement 
to pay. Like our investigator, I also think Miss B was repeatedly warned that the arrangement 
would affect her credit file, and that she expressly acknowledged this, on this call. 
Miss B now says that she was also complaining that Nationwide was negligent in placing her 
on this arrangement. Her initial complaint was that Nationwide was negligent and 
unprofessional not to notice that she wasnt in arrears. I think its clear that Miss B was in 
arrears at the start of August. However, I will also consider whether Miss B was wrongly 
advised to enter into a payment arrangement. And on that point, I think there are other parts 
of the 4 August call which are also relevant. 
Miss B had missed her payment in June. She rang at the start of August. She wasnt just 
ringing about arrears, she was also ringing because Nationwide was repeatedly ringing an 
elderly relative, and asking for the other party to the mortgage. Miss Bs call to Nationwide 
appears to me to have been prompted by this. Miss B wanted that number removed, so that 
her elderly relative would no longer be contacted. But the number wasnt attached to Miss 
Bs records, it was listed as the number for the other party to the mortgage, so Nationwide 
said it couldnt take Miss Bs instruction to remove this number from the mortgage record. 
Miss B was clear on this call that she had missed a payment in June. She accepted shed 
forgotten to move her standing order, and when the payment was attempted, she didnt have 
enough money in the account. As our investigator noted, the call handler explained that Miss 
B had also missed a payment in March too, so shed used up some of her previous credit. 
Miss B then owed just under £300, plus that months payment. The call handler suggested to 
Miss B that she should pay the full amount she owed. But Miss B said she couldnt afford 
that. And Miss B said she was paying around £35 per month extra already. So Miss B said if 
she just kept paying around the same amount, of £400 each month, she would catch up.
Miss B now says that Nationwide was negligent to put her in a payment plan. But she wasnt 
advised to enter such a plan by Nationwide. It was Miss Bs suggestion. The call handler put 
this arrangement in place because it was what Miss B asked for. And the call handler made 
clear to Miss B, a number of times, that this would affect Miss Bs credit file. 
I think that there are two other things, at the end of this call, which are also relevant. One is 
that Miss B checked that, now the arrangement was in place, there would be no more calls 
about this to her elderly relative. So I think its clear that it was one of Miss Bs objectives, to 
make sure these calls stopped. And if no arrangement had been put in place, then these 
calls would have continued until the arrears were paid off. 
And just before the end of the call, the call handler also said that Miss B wouldnt be able to 
change anything on the account while it was in arrears. So she asked if Miss B would be 
interested in a term extension, to clear the arrears. The call handler started to explain that 
you have the option to put the arrears onto the capital, and then extend the term of the 
mortgage. Miss B interrupted her to say that she didnt want to do this. The call then ended 
with a reminder that Miss Bs credit file would show her as in an arrangement to pay, and 
Miss B expressly acknowledged this.Miss B wanted me to listen to a call she had on 31 March 2022, when she said Nationwide 
accepted she should never have been on a payment plan. I dont know what was said on 
that call, and I wont be able to listen to it, as Nationwide has said it cannot find this call 
recording. But I agree with our investigator that this call isnt likely to affect the outcome of 
this complaint, and I would still say that even if the recording supports everything Miss B has 
told us about this call. Ill explain why I think that.
We know that, even if Nationwide did say on this call that it thought it had made a mistake in 
August 2020, Nationwide doesnt think that now. But, more importantly, even if Nationwide 
had said in March 2022 that it thought it had previously made a mistake, I would still have to 
reach my own view about whether that was right, and Nationwide had made a mistake. And 
Im sorry to have to tell Miss B that thats not the view I have reached here. 
I do think its right to say that Miss B didnt necessarily need to be in an arrangement to pay 
in August 2020. She could have continued to make her modest overpayments, without 
entering a payment arrangement. But then calls to her family would have continued, and she 
clearly wanted those to stop. Or she could have explored one of the other options 
Nationwide offered. But, although I dont think that Miss B needed to be in an arrangement to 
pay, I also think that this was her proposal, that she was warned of the impact, and that the 
call handler did offer other options. And for those reasons, I dont think Nationwide actually 
had to remove these markers from her credit file. 
I understand that Nationwide has removed the arrangement to pay marker from Miss Bs 
credit file. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I dont think 
Nationwide also has to pay Miss B the costs she said she incurred when she then wasnt 
able to reinstate a mortgage offer with a different lender, or that it has to pay compensation 
because of this. 
I know that Miss B will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman