DRN-1991529
The complaint
Ms W complains because BUPA Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under her private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms W holds a private medical insurance policy, provided by BUPA. 
In 2019, Ms W contacted BUPA to ask whether two weeks of inpatient rehabilitation therapy 
would be covered under her policy after an operation she was due to have the following 
month. 
BUPA said the claim wouldnt be covered, but that Ms W would be eligible for a course of 
outpatient therapy or she could consider alternative options available via the NHS. BUPA 
paid Ms W £50 compensation by way of an apology for an issue that had arisen with a call 
back from a nurse. 
Ms Ws consultants provided further medical information to BUPA, but BUPA said the new 
evidence didnt change its decision about the claim. Ms W subsequently raised a further 
complaint with BUPA about its consideration of the new medical evidence. 
As Ms W remained unhappy with BUPAs responses, she brought her complaint to the 
attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Ms Ws claim was 
covered under the terms and conditions of her policy with BUPA. Ms W didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making 
my decision about Ms Ws complaint. 
Insurance policies dont cover every situation  any claims made are subject to the terms, 
conditions and exclusions set out in the contract. So, although certain treatment or therapy 
may be recommended by medical professionals, this doesnt automatically mean the cost of 
that particular treatment or therapy has to be paid for by the insurer. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Ws policy with BUPA say:
We do not pay for recognised facility accommodation if it is primarily used for any of 
the following purposes:
convalescence, rehabilitation, supervision or any purpose other than receiving 
eligible treatment
receiving general nursing care or any other services which could have been provided 
in a nursing home or in any other establishment which is not a recognised facility
receiving services from a therapist, complementary medicine practitioner or mental 
health and wellbeing therapist.
Exception: We may, at our discretion, pay for eligible treatment for rehabilitation. By 
rehabilitation we mean treatment which is aimed at restoring health or mobility or to allow 
you to live an independent life, such as after a stroke. We will only consider cases where 
the rehabilitation:
is an integral part of in-patient treatment
You must have our written agreement before the rehabilitation starts and we need full 
clinical details from your consultant before we can give our decision. If we agree we pay 
for up to a maximum of 21 consecutive days rehabilitation. 
This means Ms Ws treatment as an inpatient at the rehabilitation clinic isnt covered under 
her policy unless the claim meets the exception criteria. In order to be covered under 
Ms Ws policy, her claim would need to relate to care which was an integral part of inpatient 
treatment. BUPA says Ms Ws rehabilitation wasnt an integral part of her surgery, as the 
rehabilitation support could have been delivered to Ms W as an outpatient. 
I understand Ms W had no help or support available to her at home, and her consultants 
recommended for the rehabilitation to take place in a setting where it could be managed 
appropriately and where Ms W could receive support to have the best chance of mobility. 
Ive also taken into account the comments Ms W has made about the cost of outpatient 
rehabilitation. But I dont think BUPAs decision to decline Ms Ws claim was unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances, and BUPA clearly told Ms W her claim wasnt covered 
and that its decision about this was unlikely to change before her surgery took place.
A letter from one of Ms Ws consultants dated August 2019 says her joint condition is very 
likely to be secondary to the treatment she received for cancer in the past. But the exclusion 
which Ive set above applies to a claim for inpatient rehabilitation therapy regardless of the 
reason for Ms Ws operation, and BUPA also clearly explained this to Ms W in the letter it 
sent to her before her surgery.
Ms W says she was told BUPA had covered claims for similar patients in similar situations at 
the same rehabilitation clinic in the past. But the specific circumstances of every claim are 
likely to be different and, when making my decision about Ms Ws case, I can only consider 
whether I think the facts of her own situation meet the policy criteria for a claim to be paid by 
BUPA. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms W, and Im sorry to hear about everything she has been through, 
but I dont think her claim is covered under the terms and conditions of her policy so I wont 
be asking BUPA to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman