DRN-1570934
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that TransUnion International UK Limited (the business), sent his data 
subject access request (DSAR) via recorded delivery even though he has asked for it to be 
sent by post. Hes also unhappy that the business didnt acknowledge all the letters he sent 
or deal with the request in time. 
 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, she said:
On 18 July 2019, the business received a DSAR from Mr H. A further request was 
received just over a week later, on 26 July as Mr H hadnt received an 
acknowledgement. 
On 29 July the business sent Mr H an acknowledgement letter, and within that it sent 
a link to National Savings & Investments and how he could find out what 
organisations had access to his data. 
The business also informed Mr H that its standard procedure in these circumstances 
for delivering DSAR documents was to send information via the Royal Mail Signed 
For delivery, and that it couldnt send documentation via standard delivery. It also 
gave Mr H details of the timescale and an opportunity to respond. 
The business received a letter from Mr H, on 9 August, raising concerns about not 
receiving a response to his last letter and the DSAR being sent recorded delivery.   
Royal Mail tried to deliver the documents on 10 August but there was no answer, so 
it held on to the documents (until 2 September) waiting for collection. The documents 
were then sent back to the business and received on 4 September 2019.  
A letter was sent from the business dated 12 August 2019, acknowledging Mr Hs 
concerns/complaint and suggesting (incorrectly) that hed received the documents. 
Mr H responded the same day (3 September 2019) to confirm that he hadnt received 
the documents. 
On 13 September 2019, the business sent Mr H the DSAR along with its Final 
Response Letter (FRL)  upholding the complaint  stating that itd change its policy 
going forward so that if a customer had a specific request for a particular method of 
delivery it'd try and accommodate rather than simply refuse. 
In the circumstances, shes unable to say the business has done anything wrong by 
sending the DSAR recorded delivery in the first place because that was its procedure 
at the time. Having taken Mr Hs complaint into consideration it has changed its 
process moving forward. 
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigator's conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im not persuaded 
that the business has behaved unreasonably in the circumstances. 
I understand that Mr H informed the business that he was unable to receive documents sent 
via recorded deliver although its not entirely clear why. Nevertheless, I note that in a letter to 
Mr H the business explained that in relation to providing DSAR its standard procedure was 
to send documents via recorded delivery, and thats what it intended to do with Mr H and 
provided details for timescale of delivery. I understand that Mr H was given an opportunity to 
respond but it seems that he didnt. 
Instead, a couple of weeks or so later, the business received a letter from Mr H effectively 
raising a complaint stating that it hadnt responded to his concerns about not wanting 
documents delivered via recorded delivery. 
On balance, Im satisfied that a letter was sent to Mr H about the business position 
regarding DSAR and recorded delivery, but its likely that it may have gone missing in the 
post. If thats the case, Im unable to hold the business responsible for the actions of a third-
party postal service. 
It also highlights why the business wouldve wanted to send DSAR documents via recorded 
delivery in the first instance, to try to avoid documents going missing in the post, and avoid 
personal data falling into the wrong hands. So, Im unable to say that the business has done 
anything wrong by following its process at the time. 
Im aware that the business erroneously informed Mr H that the DSAR documents had been 
delivered when they hadnt. I dont think this was done deliberately to cause Mr H upset, I 
think its more likely (than not) the business was acting on information from Royal Mail. 
Notwithstanding this, overall Im satisfied that the business responded to Mr Hs 
request made in July in a reasonable amount of time.  
Im mindful that since Mr Hs complaint the business has taken on board his experience and 
decided to change its process so that its able to accommodate the delivery wants/needs of 
its customers in the future. So that if Mr H wanted documents to be sent via the normal post 
thats what it would do to accommodate him.  
I should highlight that the business has made changes to its process in the reasonable 
exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, its not something our service would force it 
to do. 
I appreciate Mr H will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But 
in the circumstances, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.  
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman