DRN-3801438
The complaint
Mr B says NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about two credit cards provided by NewDay Ltd to Mr B. It seems the 
Aqua account opened in January 2013 with a credit limit of £250. This account had a 
number of credit increases over time. The Marbles account was opened in October 2019 
with a credit limit of £300. This account had one credit increase in March 2020. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought that NewDay Ltd ought to 
have realised that Mr B wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on the 
accounts by October 2019. NewDay Ltd has disagreed. So, the complaint has therefore 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I have reached the same 
findings as our adjudicator and for the same reasons. As such I am partially upholding Mr 
Bs complaint. I explain why below.
NewDay Ltd needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay Ltd should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And so, Ive looked at the overall pattern of Nexts lending history with Mr B, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which NewDay Ltd should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean 
NewDay Ltd should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Mr Bs credit 
limits. Having done so, I think there was such a point in October 2019 when NewDay Ltd 
raised the credit limit on the Aqua card to £2,250 from £1,250 and opened the Marbles 
credit card. I think there was a pattern of lending that ought to have put NewDay Ltd on 
notice that further lending was unsustainable as Mr B would not have been able afford to 
repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner, most likely. I explain why I say 
that.
The early borrowing history on the Aqua card displayed poor management from Mr B of a 
very modest credit limit. Between October 2015 and October 2017 there were only two 
months in which Mr B had neither a late fee nor an over credit limit fee charged to his 
account. Between October 2017 and June 2018 there was a period of nine months in which 
Mr B incurred not a single fee. But Mr Bs balance was close to his credit ceiling throughout. 
In the ten months before May 2019, when Mr Bs credit limit was increased from £500 to 
£1,250, Mr B had four fees attached to his account and he largely lived at his credit limit. 
Once the credit increase was applied Mr B sprinted to his new credit limit in a month and 
went overlimit immediately. In two of the next four months Mr B incurred fees for being 
overlimit. 
So, I believe that Mr Bs pattern of usage of his Aqua credit card account showed that Mr B 
lived on maximised credit and often failed to stay within those credit limits. And that made 
this borrowing all the more expensive for Mr B as the fees were a regular part of his credit 
history. And when Mr Bs credit limit was increased, Mr B took full advantage of the new 
credit limit immediately and largely kept his credit maximised there. And Mr B had no real of 
history of paying the credit down. 
I think its fair to characterise Mr Bs management of his new credit limits as poor. It seems 
that the pattern of lending shows from this that with a lower credit limit Mr B showed some 
aptitude to manage his account less poorly. But raising Mr Bs credit limit caused him to 
raise his balance to a level where he couldnt manage his credit and stay within his credit 
limits. And, in Mr Bs recent credit history he had not reduced his balance by a significant 
amount and the balance had stayed close to the credit limit almost entirely. Again, NewDay 
Ltd had seen some evidence that with a higher credit limit Mr B was likely to allow the 
balance to grow and that he seemed unable to make much progress in reducing the balance 
when it had grown. 
So, the evidence of Mr Bs account was that he managed his account poorly throughout, but 
that he had more success in manging himself to a credit limit when that credit limit was 
modest. It is my view that NewDay Ltd should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, and it shouldnt have further increased Mr Bs 
credit limits. But, knowing Mr Bs pattern of usage, NewDay Ltd chose to increase Mr Bs credit limit 
further, from £1,250 to £2,250 in October 2019 and opened a second credit card for Mr B 
with a credit limit of £300. 
So, given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, based on the information Mr B and 
NewDay Ltd have given, I think that a point was reached by October 2019, which ought to 
have prompted NewDay Ltd to realise further credit would most likely be unaffordable or 
otherwise harmful to Mr B. I say this because the way Mr B had managed his account until 
that point would have shown NewDay Ltd that Mr B would not find it easy to repay a balance 
that rose anywhere near the new credit limit, whilst at the same time having to meet his daily 
living expenses. I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to his credit 
could have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds 
available to meet his regular outgoings. 
It follows that I think that Mr B lost out because NewDay Ltd provided him with further credit 
from October 2019 onwards. In my view, NewDays actions unfairly prolonged Mr Bs 
indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting him into further debt. 
It follows that NewDay Ltd should put things right.
Putting things right
Rework Mr Bs accounts to ensure that from October 2019 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1,250, (being the credit 
limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. And Mr B should not have been given the 
Marbles card at all. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; 
and
If an outstanding balance remains on the accounts once these adjustments 
have been made NewDay Ltd should contact Mr B to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Mr B has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file 
from October 2019 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. NewDay 
Ltd should also remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file from 
October 2019 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd to take off tax from this interest. 
NewDay Ltd must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im currently minded to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint. NewDay 
Ltd should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman