DRN-3371687
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim. 
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have travel insurance alongside their bank current account. The policy is 
underwritten by UKI. 
They booked their flights and accommodation separately and there were six people in their 
group who were due to travel, including Mr and Mrs C. Their intended departure date was on 
5 September 2020. In the same week they were due to travel, Mr and Mrs C say the Scottish 
government removed the country they were due to travel to from the list of permitted 
destinations for all but essential travel. Because of this, Mr and Mrs C decided not to travel. 
The four people in the group decided to go ahead with the holiday.
Mr and Mrs C submitted a claim for their share of the holiday cancellation costs. UKI 
assessed the claim but declined it. It said The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development 
Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) hadnt advised 
against all but essential travel for the date that Mr and Mrs C were due to travel. UKI said 
there was no cover on the policy for the circumstances that Mr and Mrs C found themselves 
in. UKI also paid Mr and Mrs C £75 for poor communication in the handling of their claim.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. She didnt think UKI had declined 
the claim unfairly or unreasonably. She said the Scottish government put a directive in place 
from 1 September 2020 which said that travellers would be required to isolate for 14 days if 
they arrived in Scotland after 3 September 2020 (from the country Mr and Mrs C were due to 
travel to). Our investigator said because the Scottish government werent advising against 
travel and because Mr and Mrs C made the choice not to travel, she didnt think the claim 
was covered under their travel policy. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
its been passed to me. 
They do not believe the outcome is fair. Scottish guidance was very clear advising against 
non-essential travel at that time.  And also, during the Covid-19 pandemic, Scottish law 
differed (often significantly) from that in England, yet they would have been unable to cite 
English law as an excuse for behaviours legal in that country but not in Scotland. They 
believe its fair and reasonable for travel guidance to be treated in the same way  
particularly for non-essential (holiday) travel, which this was.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive looked at the guidance that was put in place around the time Mr and Mrs C decided to 
cancel their holiday:
On 1 September 2020, the Scottish government said travellers would be required to 
isolate for 14 days upon arrival after 3 September 2020.
On 7 September 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to Mr and 
Mrs Cs intended destination.
So, travellers returning from that country after 3 September 2020, would have been required 
to isolate for 14 days. And it wasnt until 7 September 2020, that advice came into place 
against all but essential travel. Based on the above information, Mr and Mrs C decided not to 
travel on 5 September 2020, but the only guidance that was in place on that day was from 
the Scottish government which said travellers returning from that country had to isolate for 
14 days. I appreciate why Mr and Mrs C might have decided to cancel their holiday but there 
was no advice on 5 September 2020 against travel to that destination. 
Ive gone on to look at Mr and Mrs Cs policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis of 
their travel insurance contract with UKI. 
In the cancellation section of their policy on page 16, it says:
Part 1  Covers For Your Trip
Section A Cancelling Your Trip (before you are due to start your trip)
What is covered
We will cover you for your:
 unused deposits;
 accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and 
activities); and
 unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges that 
you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your 
trip for one
of the following reasons:
 One of the following people dies, is seriously injured or is seriously ill:
 any insured person;
 your travelling companion;
 a close relative;
 a close business associate; or
 anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with.
 One of the following people is quarantined, is called for jury service or is called as a 
witness in a court of law:
 any insured person;
 your travelling companion; or
 anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with.
 One of the following people is made redundant and registered for a Jobseekers 
Agreement with the Department for Work & Pensions, or is a member of the British armed forces or Emergency Services and authorised leave is cancelled due to an 
unexpected emergency:
 any insured person; or
 your travelling companion.
 One of the following people is required to stay at their home as a result of it being 
seriously damaged by fire, storm, flood or due to a burglary in the seven days before 
departure on your trip:
 any insured person; or
 your travelling companion.
 Your pet cat or dog requiring life saving treatment in the seven days before 
your departure on your trip.
 Your passport or visa being stolen in a burglary in the seven days before 
your departure on your trip and you being unable to arrange a replacement 
in time.
 The Foreign & Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but 
essential travel to your intended destination, providing the advice came into 
force after you opened your Platinum account or booked your trip 
(whichever was the later) and was in the 28 days before your departure on 
your trip.
 You are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation 
because the
accommodation or immediately surrounding area is adversely affected by 
natural disaster.
Natural disaster is defined in the policy terms and conditions as:
Natural disaster  fire, storm, lightning, avalanche, explosion, hurricane, e
earthquake, flood, tidal wave, medical epidemic or pandemic.
I can see that cover is available under the policy if the FCDO advise against all but essential 
travel and also in the case where policyholders are unable to use their pre-booked and pre-
paid accommodation when the area they were due to travel to is affected by a natural 
disaster (a pandemic, in this case). 
But there was no advice against all but essential travel in place when Mr and Mrs C decided 
to cancel their holiday. Also my understanding is that the flights werent cancelled on 5 
September 2020 but did go ahead and the group that Mr and Mrs C were due to travel with 
did go ahead with the holiday. 
Mr and Mrs C decided not to travel but to cancel their holiday of their own volition and I 
appreciate their reasons for doing so. It wasnt until 7 September 2020 that guidance came 
into place from the FCDO against all but essential travel. Therefore, there was no cover for 
Mr and Mrs C in the circumstances here. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Cs comments that Scottish law differs to English law. I 
appreciate that but, in this case, the Scottish government said travellers had to isolate for 14 
days after returning from that country from 3 September 2020. It didnt advise against all but 
essential travel and this guidance applied for the day Mr and Mrs C were due to travel. The 
guidance advising against all but essential travel only changed from 7 September 2020 and 
was given by the FCDO. I cant comment on Scottish and English law and which guidance 
should apply to whom. But what I can say is that based on the what happened on this 
complaint, as there was no advice in place for Mr and Mrs C not to travel to their destination 
on 5 September 2020, there was no cover for them when they cancelled their holiday. I 
therefore cant reasonably ask UKI to accept the claim for an event for which there is no 
cover under their travel policy. Overall, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that UKI declined Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim unfairly or unreasonably and I dont think it has done anything wrong in this regard. It 
follows that I dont require UKI do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman