DRN-3992225
The complaint
Mr B complained about West Bay Insurance Plc. He isnt happy about the way it looked to 
settle a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to West Bay includes the actions of its agents which it is 
responsible for.
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his car insurance policy after his car was clipped by another 
vehicle causing some damage to his car. West Bay looked to deal with the claim in line with 
the policy but as Mr B wanted to use his own repairer it explained that it would only pay an 
amount equivalent to the cost it would pay its own approved repairer. As Mr B didnt think it 
was fair for him to make up the shortfall if he used his own repairer he complained to West 
Bay and then this Service about this.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B, but he didnt uphold his complaint. Although he 
could understand why Mr B wanted to use his own manufacturer approved repairer he didnt 
think West Bay had done anything wrong. It was happy to undertake the repairs at its own 
approved repairers or to allow Mr B to use his own repairer, but it wouldnt pay more than it 
would cost to use its own repairer in line with the policy terms and conditions which our 
investigator thought was fair. 
As Mr B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration and why he wants his car repaired by his own repairer, 
but I dont think West Bay has acted unfairly in only offering to pay a cost in line with its 
approved repairers costs. Ill explain why. 
I know Mr B doubts whether West Bays approved repairer would complete the repair to the 
required standard given the specialist nature of his car. But its approved network of repairers 
will have the necessary skill and tools to repair his car to a satisfactory standard and if there 
was any problem with the repair for any reason then I would expect West Bay to pay to put 
things right. So, although I can understand why Mr B wants his car repaired by the specialist 
repairer for his particular model I dont think that is necessary. 
As our investigator explained Mr Bs policy says it will only pay repair costs at a non-
approved repairer if it agrees the costs and we may not pay more than the approved 
repairer would have charged. I know Mr B has highlighted that the policy only says may 
and isnt specific on the amount limit, but I dont think this is unreasonable. I say this as the 
actual amounts involved is likely to vary over time and I dont think it is unreasonable for 
West Bay to decide whether it would pay a little more depending on the circumstances. 
However, the costs involved in Mr Bs case are significantly more than the cost West Bay 
would incur if it used its own repairer. And I think the policy is clear about this and in line with 
many other similar policies that are available. I know Mr B also feels his car should be 
repaired by a specialist given its age and model, but I dont think thats necessary for the 
reasons outlined above. And he has taken out a general market value policy here and I 
wouldve expected him to take out a more tailored or classic car policy if he needed or 
wanted a different level of cover. 
Given all of this, and although I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, I wont be 
asking West Bay to do anything further. Insurers negotiate competitive rates with their 
approved repairers in looking to keep costs down and so I wouldnt expect West Bay to pay 
significantly more here.
My final decision
It follows for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman