DRN-3084630
The complaint
Mrs T complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyd) handling of a claim 
she made under her buildings insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs T holds a home and contents insurance policy with Lloyds. She had a leak in her kitchen 
and arranged for a plumber to identify the source of the leak. They identified it as being from 
a pipe under her breakfast bar. Mrs T contacted Lloyds. She says they initially told her shed 
be covered for the claim apart from the pipework. However, when Mrs T came to submit her 
claim, she was told it had been her choice to lift the areas surrounding the pipe, and the 
claim was declined. Mrs T says she had no other way of identifying the source of the leak 
and stopping it. 
Unhappy with the decision to decline the claim, Mrs T made a complaint. Lloyds responded, 
stating Mrs Ts policy didnt provide trace and access cover where there was no evidence of 
water damage. However, they said having reviewed the conversation they adviser had with 
Mrs T, Lloyds felt they could have been clearer about when the trace and access section of 
the policy could be applied. They paid £50 for the trouble and upset caused by this.
Mrs T remained unhappy. She referred her complaint to this service. It was considered by an 
investigator who said while there was no immediate water damage, the claims consultant 
had noticed some damage caused by lifting the floor. She felt the claim should be 
considered. Lloyds didnt agree.
Before issuing my final decision, I reached out to both sides to explain why I was minded to 
reach a different conclusion to our investigator. I said I thought the policy terms made it clear 
that there needed to be damage caused by an escape of water before the trace and access 
section of the property could be relied on to make a claim. Mrs T didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering how the policy terms say Lloyds will consider a claim about an 
escape of water. For ease, Ive set these out below:
What we cover
Loss of or damage to the buildings by the following causes:
9. Escape of water from any domestic appliance or any fixed water installation
In considering the above policy terms and the evidence provided, Im unable to conclude 
there has been any damage to Mrs Ts home caused by the escape of water itself. While its 
accepted an escape of water occurred, the water drained away into a void below the 
property. Ive not seen any evidence of water damage in Mrs Ts kitchen.
I appreciate Mrs T needed to arrange access the leaking pipe. Its location in the kitchen 
meant a considerable amount of work needed to happen in order to reach the pipe. As Ive 
said, Im mindful the evidence provided by both sides shows there was no water damage to 
the property. Unfortunately, damage was caused when the pipe was accessed. 
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions, and they say:
15. Trace and access.
If the buildings of your home are damaged due to:
i) Escape of water from any domestic appliance or any fixed water 
installation
Lloyds are relying on this clause to decline Mrs Ts claim. And Im satisfied it is entitled to do 
so, because there was no damage caused to Mrs Ts home by the leaking pipe. This isnt to 
say there wasnt an escape of water or insured event. Its accepted that there was. However, 
the escape of water didnt enter her home, instead it dropped into the void below the kitchen. 
While Ive also seen the note that referenced some slight damage to the laminate floor and 
base units, I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude this was caused by 
the escape of water, rather than accessing it.   
Im satisfied the policy terms are clear, Lloyds is only required to consider the claim if the 
property is damaged as a result of water that escaped from a fixed water installation. I dont 
think thats occurred here because the water drained away into the void below. So, for the 
reasons Ive given, Im not going to require Lloyds to consider the claim. 
I agree that Lloyds could have done more during its first conversation with Mrs T to explain 
more about how she might be able to claim under the trace and access section of her policy. 
The failure to do so raised her hopes that she might be able to make a successful claim  
albeit I note that no firm confirmation was given during the call. I consider the payment of 
£50 was appropriate in respect of this. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman