DRN-3765363
The complaint
Mr I complains that Admiral Markets UK Ltd failed to notify him when his Contracts for 
Difference (CFD) portfolio depreciated by more than 10%. He said that this was a regulatory 
requirement and caused him a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr I complained to Admiral Markets that between 2019 to 2021, it never notified him when 
his portfolio depreciated by more than 10%. He said the relevant rules in COBS16A.4.3 and 
guidance by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) meant that:
a) Admiral Markets was holding his client account; and
b) That his portfolio included contingent liability transactions, such as CFDs, which 
meant special reporting rules applied. 
Admiral Markets looked into his complaint, but didnt agree. It said that rule only applied to 
Portfolio Management firms, which is not the service it was providing to him. It said it was a 
market execution firm, and therefore this reporting rule didnt apply. 
Mr I didnt agree and asked this service to look into the matter. One of our investigators 
looked into his concerns, but also didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain to Mr I that my role in looking at his complaint is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. It isnt to punish a business if it hasnt complied with a rule, 
nor is it to enforce a rule or take any regulatory action  that is for the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
This means that even if I agreed that Admiral Markets didnt technically comply with the 10% 
reporting rule he refers to, it wouldnt automatically follow that Id just award the £6,000 
compensation Mr I has asked for. Id need to consider what other information Mr I had, his 
responsibilities in managing his account and whether or not this failing did, on the balance of 
probabilities, mean that Mr I sustained losses that he otherwise wouldnt have. 
Theres no dispute that Mr I had some experience trading CFDs when he opened his 
account with Admiral Markets, and I can see that he answered the knowledge questions 
correctly  so the account was appropriate for him, and he understood the risks of significant 
capital loss inherent in trading CFDs. 
Theres no dispute that Mr I was trading as an execution only client  this meant that Admiral 
Markets was not responsible for advising him or managing his positions. He alone was 
responsible for deciding how much money to deposit, when to open trades, on what 
markets, and when to close them. 
And its also not in dispute that Mr I did receive regular statements outlining the actions on 
his account, including updated profit and loss for each individual trade as well as his account 
overall. Although I havent seen a screenshot of it, its likely he also had access to an online 
platform of some kind which allowed him to see, in real time, how his trades were performing 
as well as any realised losses. 
Whilst I agree that receiving a notification at some stage that his portfolio had depreciated by 
10% wouldve been helpful (assuming this was a requirement  and Im not making this 
finding), Im not persuaded on balance that theres sufficient evidence that this wouldve 
made any difference to the way Mr I traded. In looking at his statement, Im satisfied it was 
already apparent to him, throughout the life of his account, that he was sustaining significant 
losses  and this did not make him trade any differently as far as I can see. 
Furthermore, this rule, even if I agreed that it applied, would not remove his own 
responsibility for managing his account and for ensuring he was aware of how it was 
performing. In order words, the losses he is claiming are not in fact due to something 
Admiral Markets did or didnt do  they are due to his own trading decisions, and the 
financial consequences of those. 
Given everything Ive said above, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude that these losses were caused by Admiral Markets, even if I agreed that it 
shouldve been reporting in the way COBS16A.4.3 62(2) sets out. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman