DRN-4268046
The complaint
Miss W complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim she made under her 
home insurance policy.
Miss W is represented in this complaint by her partner, Mr R. 
AXA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As AXA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to AXA includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In mid-2021, Miss W made an escape of water claim under her home insurance policy with 
AXA after discovering a leak from her shower cubicle in the bathroom downstairs.
AXA accepted the claim and arranged for repairs to be carried out. However, around eleven 
months after repairs were completed, the shower started to leak again. Mr R contacted the 
company who had completed the repairs and they put some sealant over the tiles. However, 
this didnt resolve the issue. Mr R contacted AXA who reopened the claim in around August 
2022.
AXA initially said it wasnt responsible for the issue because joists beneath the bathroom 
were rotten. However, after Mr R disputed this, it agreed to cover the cost of the repairs and 
fixture of joists. It also arranged for a temporary shower pod to be placed in Miss Ws dining 
area until works to the shower were completed.
AXA paid Miss W £125 in December 2022 and £400 in March 2023 in response to 
complaints raised on her behalf by Mr R. 
Mr R and Miss W asked our service to consider the matter as they didnt think the 
compensation AXA had paid was enough to compensate them for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd experienced. Our investigator looked into their concerns, but he 
thought the compensation AXA had already paid was fair.
Mr R asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Miss W previously raised concerns with AXA about its handling of her initial 
claim and was awarded some compensation for this. To be clear, in this decision Ive only 
considered concerns raised about AXAs handling of her claim after it was reopened in 
around August 2022 until its final response letter dated 23 March 2023.
From what Ive seen, Mr R made AXA aware that there were further issues with the shower 
leaking in August 2022. AXA reopened the claim and referred the matter to its surveyors 
(B) who had dealt with the claim back in 2021. The company who carried out the repairs in 
2021 said it didnt believe the issue was due to its works but there was an underlying issue 
with damp in the basement below. 
AXA then authorised a leak detection survey, which was carried out in November 2022. After 
some further discussion between AXA and B, AXA decided to cover repairs to the bathroom 
and fixture of joists in order to be fair to Miss W.
I appreciate Mr R would have preferred for AXA to have arranged the repairs rather than 
offering Miss W a cash settlement. However, AXA said this wasnt possible due to the scale 
of the work. The terms of the policy allow AXA to settle a claim by paying the reasonable 
costs of work carried out in repairing or replacing the damaged part of a policyholders 
buildings and agreed fees and related costs. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to 
offer Miss W a cash settlement.
I understand Mr R has experienced a lot of frustration and inconvenience dealing with the 
claim and complaint on behalf of Miss W. Hes also told us he needed to take his son to his 
grandmothers house for showers when there wasnt a working shower in the property. This 
took up a lot of his time and petrol money. However, Mr R isnt a policyholder or a resident of 
the property. This means that Im unable to consider an impact on him personally because 
he isnt eligible to bring a complaint to our service.
AXA has acknowledged issues in the management of Miss Ws claim and a delay in 
resolving it. I understand Miss W also had the inconvenience of having to go to a relatives 
home for showers. Mr R says they were concerned about the safety of using the shower and 
they were told not to use it after a steel support was installed. 
However, AXA also agreed for a temporary shower pod to be placed in Miss Ws home until 
the repairs were completed and I understand its agreed to cover the cost of electricity from 
this. It looks like the temporary shower was provided a few weeks after the steel support was 
installed. 
AXA has paid Miss W a total of £525 compensation since the claim was reopened in August 
2022. Having considered the impact of the issues AXA is responsible for on Miss W, I think 
this is reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced. I 
appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Miss W and Mr R, but I dont require AXA to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman