DRN-3028858
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because Mr C didnt take the PPI when he first took out the 
mortgage; he took it out separately over a year later. He had to set up a separate direct 
debit to pay for it. Bank of Scotland has also provided evidence of the conversation it had 
with Mr C when it established his eligibility for the policy. Mr C had also previously 
indicated he wanted PPI at the point of his mortgage application although this didnt go 
ahead at the time for unknown reasons. So I think he knew he didnt have to take it and 
he chose to do so. 
Its likely Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for him. And the evidence about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr C was 
eligible for the cover and he had limited means to fall back on, so he had a need for 
cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Cs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr C says he experienced two medical conditions 
some time before the policy was taken out. I dont think it was wrong for Bank of 
Scotland to have recommended it. I say this because the conditions wouldnt have been 
excluded from cover given that he did not appear to have had symptoms relating to 
those conditions in the 12 months before he took the policy..
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr C as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the 
information he was given. Indeed, Mr C went on to make four separate accident and 
sickness claims over the following years and his mortgage payments were covered for 
almost 30 months by the policy. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr 
C would have declined the cover had Bank of Scotland done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he would have still 
thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr C would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Bank of Scotland should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman