DRN-4291096
The complaint
Mrs F and Ms L are unhappy with the service theyve received from AWP P&C SA when 
they claimed on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs F and Ms L went on holiday in Europe. On arrival at their destination Mrs F fell and 
broke her hip. She required treatment, including surgery. Mrs F says they received limited 
help from AWP and made their own arrangements to get home. 
A claim was made on the policy but wasnt settled for some time. When it was settled Mrs F 
received far less than shed claimed for. Mrs F complained to AWP. In response they 
apologised for the delays but said that the claim had now been settled. Unhappy, Mrs F 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator received very limited information from AWP. He upheld the complaint 
because AWP hadnt provided a breakdown of the claim payment and hadnt settled Mrs Fs 
outstanding costs, which were covered by the policy. He also thought they should pay Mrs F 
£400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor claims handling. 
Mrs F accepted the investigators findings. AWP said theyd contacted their emergency 
assistance team but didnt provide any further information. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AWP has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. 
Im upholding Mrs F and Ms Ls complaint because: 
I dont think AWP provided Mrs F and Ms L with adequate emergency assistance 
in the circumstances of this case. AWP hasnt provided evidence to support that 
any meaningful action was taken by the assistance team. 
Im satisfied the lack of assistance caused distress and inconvenience as Mrs F 
and Ms L had to make their own arrangements to get home, in an already difficult 
situation. Given the nature of Mrs Fs injury this was very disappointing. 
AWP hasnt explained why it took months to settle the claim. So, based on the 
available evidence, I dont think this delay was reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case.  
When the claim was settled but no breakdown of the costs was given, even when 
Mrs F queried it. This also wasnt addressed in the final response letter. I think 
this was poor service as it remains unclear why AWP has only paid for some of 
the expenses Mrs F claimed for.  
I think Mrs F has been caused distress and inconvenience because of poor 
service, delays, and poor communication. I think this has had a significant impact 
on her at a time when she was recovering from a serious injury. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days of receiving confirmation that Mrs F and Ms L have accepted my final 
decision AWP needs to put things right by:
Giving Mrs F a breakdown of the settlement figure it provided in September 2022, 
including what claim expenses its paid and any deductions.
Settling Mrs Fs outstanding costs including her unused accommodation and 
additional travel expenses in line with the remaining policy terms. AWP should also 
pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the date the claim form was 
submitted until the date of settlement. 
Paying Mrs F £400 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused 
by poor service and delays.
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs F and Ms L how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
tax deduction certificate if they ask for one so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs F and Ms Ls complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman