DRN-3342532
The complaint
Mr W complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) provided an unfair 
settlement under his motor policy.
What happened
Mr W made a claim on his policy following an accident in his classic car on 22 April 2021. 
Admiral appointed an approved repairer to recover the vehicle and Mr W was provided with 
a courtesy car. After three weeks, Mr W contacted the approved repairer to see when his car 
would be ready for collection, which is when he discovered Admiral hadnt approved the 
repair costs, so work hadnt started.
Admiral informed Mr W it would be settling his claim on a cash basis. Admiral explained that 
it could only get second-hand parts to repair the classic car. Admiral wasnt happy to use 
second-hand parts as it said it wouldnt be able to provide a warranty for the repairs.
Admiral initially offered a cash settlement of £3,827.40, less the £600 stated excess on the 
policy (net £3,227.40). Mr W rejected the settlement offer and raised the complaint. He 
became aware that the approved repairer had estimated the cost of the repairs at £4,877.40, 
even though Mr W said Admiral hadnt disclosed this.
On 3 June 2021, Admiral instructed an independent assessor to review the circumstances 
which resulted in Admiral increasing its offer by £500 as a gesture of goodwill (to a net figure 
of £3,727.40). Admiral said the offer was in line with the policy and guidelines.
However, as Mr W couldnt get his car repaired for less than £4,877.40, he rejected the offer 
as he would still be £550 out of pocket when taking the excess into account.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think Admiral had treated Mr W 
fairly as it hadnt put him back in the position he was in before the road accident happened. 
He recommended that Admiral increase the settlement for the repairs to £4,877.40 plus 8% 
interest per annum simple. Admiral disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 31 January 2022. I said: 
The purpose of an insurance contract, such as a motor policy, is to indemnify the 
policyholder for certain insured events, such as a road accident as in this claim. In other 
words, Mr W should be put back in the position he was in before the road accident 
happened. Therefore, Im likely to say Admiral has been fair, if its fully indemnified Mr W for 
his loss, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy.
The terms and conditions set out how Admiral should settle the claim.
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either pay:
 to repair your vehicle
 a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle.
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle. Should 
we deem your vehicle repairable but are unable to complete or guarantee the repairs, we will 
offer you a cash sum to cover reasonable costs of parts and labour.
We will repair your vehicle with parts made to the manufacturer's specification. Your 
settlement may be reduced, or you may be asked to contribute towards the repair costs, if 
the parts being replaced were already worn or damaged.
If your vehicle's ADAS (Advanced Driver Assistance System) needs to be recalibrated as a 
result of any repairs, we will also cover these costs. If any parts are no longer available, we 
will pay the cost shown in the manufacturer's latest price guide together with reasonable 
fitting costs.
Admiral decided not to repair Mr Ws vehicle as it wouldnt guarantee the works. Mr W said 
he was willing for the repair to be done by Admiral without a warranty being provided for the 
work. However, Admiral didnt want to do this. I think Admiral couldve considered this, but I 
cant say it was unfair in not doing this as its a decision for the company to make. However, 
in declining to do the repair, Admiral needs to ensure that Mr W is not adversely affected and 
was treated fairly.
Even though Admiral wouldnt do the repair themselves, it maintained the car was 
repairable. It offered Mr W a cash settlement on what Admiral calculated to be a fair cost to 
fit a manufacturers part. However, Mr W rejected Admirals offer as he couldnt get his car 
fixed for the offer that was made. 
The approved repairer said it wouldve cost £4,887.40 to repair the car and its cost was 
based on it using second-hand parts that were available and an assumed labour cost. 
Admirals offer was £3,727.40 after deducting the excess. 
I dont think the offer Admiral has made is fair or reasonable as Mr W couldnt get his car 
repaired for the settlement Admiral offered. Therefore, I dont think it has offered a sum that 
covers reasonable costs. As Admiral decided not to repair the car, it was left with two 
choices under the terms and conditions of the policy. Admiral could either cash settle the 
cost for Mr W to get his car repaired or offer a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle. As 
it hasnt fulfilled its obligations, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Admiral has argued that the costs to repair the vehicle are lower than what the approved 
repairer has set out. But, the approved repairer has provided the only quote by someone 
who is willing to carry out the works. As Mr W cant get his car repaired for the amount 
Admiral has offered and Admiral hasnt provided any alternative options, I dont think Admiral 
has been fair. 
I can see in Admirals notes it thinks the costs from the approved repairer are excessive to 
carry out the repair. However, as Admirals agent observes rightly so, [Mr W] is stating that 
is our problem not his. I agree, if Admiral wanted to use a different garage to get the repairs 
done it couldve done. However, Admiral hasnt done this.
Therefore, to put Mr W back in the position he was before the accident, I intend Admiral to 
settle the claim in line with the terms and conditions, so that Admiral either:
repairs Mr Ws vehicle or,
or offer Mr W a cash settlement to replace the damaged vehicle. If Admiral want to provide a cash settlement in lieu of the repair, Admiral need to provide a 
cash settlement that allows a full repair to happen (c £5,000) less the policy excess. It should 
be noted, this quote was several weeks ago, so it maybe the payment Admiral must settle 
for maybe higher or lower than this amount. As Mr W has been without this money or the 
repair, I intend Admiral to add 8% simple interest per annum to the settlement value from the 
date of the claim to the date the claim is settled.
Mr W wanted compensation for loss of his car. I dont think this is fair as the policy doesnt 
cover him for this and he had the benefit of a courtesy car. Admiral did offer Mr W £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience delays caused in the claim. I dont believe 
Admiral has compensated Mr W for the distress and inconvenience of the further delays it 
has caused by not offering a fair settlement and for leaving Mr W with a potential financial 
shortfall. So, I intend to award a further £200 compensation for this. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Admiral said whilst I am satisfied the cash in lieu figure offered is correct, as previously 
advised this was our exposure to the repair costs, we will increase the cash in lieu figure by 
£550.00 taking it to £4877.40. The customer has already received a payment of £3727.40, 
therefore we will add interest to the increase from 13/7/2021 (the date the payment cleared 
into the customers account) to the date we issue payment, along with a further £200 
compensation. 
My second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on this on 10 February 2022. I said: 
Ive considered what Admiral has said and reviewed the timeline of what happened with 
regards to the settlement. Given Mr W received a payment from Admiral, this should be 
reflected in how much interest Admiral is asked to pay.
I can see Admirals first settlement offer was made on 19 May 2021. Admiral increased this 
offer on 29 June 2021 and this money was received by Mr W on 13 July 2021.
As I explained I dont think Admirals initial offer was fair and this caused some delay. So, I 
think Admiral should pay 8% interest simple on the full settlement amount Ive advised 
between 19 May 2021 and 13 July 2021. However, I agree that Admiral should only pay 8% 
interest simple on the incremental amount of the settlement I have awarded from 13 July 
2021 to the date the claim is settled in full. I think this is fair and reflects the time Mr W has 
been without the money.
As I have changed the award slightly, I have issued a second provisional decision to give 
opportunity for both parties to respond.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Mr W accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Admiral said it cannot agree to pay interest on the initial figure between 19/5/2021  
13/7/2021 as the customer had not had the car repaired at this point as is evidenced by the 
Independent Assessors report dated 17/6/2021, therefore the customer was not out
of the funds. I would also draw your attention to the payment the cheque was printed and 
sent to the customer on 30/6/2021, however was not present for payment until 13/7/2021, cannot agree we are responsible for the delay in the customer banking the cheque. In line 
with my previous email the interest on the increase from 13/7/2021 to the date it is issued is 
agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think its relevant when Mr W had his car repaired as Admiral decided to cash settle 
the claim. After receiving the cash settlement, its Mr Ws choice what he does with his own 
money and when he chooses to spend his money.
Admirals initial offer was made on 19 May 2021, so this is the point when I think Mr W 
shouldve received the full settlement, so I think this is the point the interest should be 
applied from. Admiral has said Mr W delayed banking his cheque. I havent seen evidence 
that he has. I think Mr W has probably banked his check at the first reasonable opportunity 
he had  if Admiral think there was a delay, I think its most likely the elapsed time was 
probably due to the postal timelines and cheque clearing timeframes.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Settle Mr Ws claim in line with the policy (i.e. Admiral repairs Mr Ws vehicle or offers 
him a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle) less the policy excess, or offer a 
cash settlement in lieu of the repair less the policy excess (provided the car can still 
be repaired).
Pay Mr W 8% simple interest per annum
oOn the full settlement amount Ive advised between 19 May 2021 and 13 July 
2021
oOn the incremental amount of the settlement from 13 July 2021 to the date 
the claim is settled in full.
Pay Mr W an additional £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him for trying to resolve his claim (in addition to the £200 already offered).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman