DRN-3499366
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Domestic & General Insurance plc (D&G) handled his household 
goods insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H has a policy with D&G providing cover for a range of household electrical items. In 
March 2022 Mr Hs DVD player had a malfunction and he made a claim under his policy.
When Mr H tried to contact D&G, it took him a few attempts to be able to make a claim. His 
policy was sold under one particular brand, but his phonecalls seemed to go to another 
different brand. Then, when Mr H contacted D&G, it told him to contact another phone 
number to make his claim.
Mr H made his claim and a repairer was booked to visit his home. The repairer didnt attend 
the appointment, so Mr H contacted it. The repairer told him parts werent available for his 
player and D&G then agreed to settle Mr Hs claim for £119 in cash.
Mr H wasnt happy about the number of attempts it took him to be able to make the claim. 
He also wasnt happy about the settlement offered because hed bought the player for about 
£300 several years before.
D&G said the phone number Mr H used was an old number from an earlier version of Mr Hs 
policy documents. It said it understood Mr Hs inconvenience and agreed to pay him £10 
compensation and it provided evidence of how it would settle claims by replacing the player 
under the terms of the policy.
As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt uphold it. He agreed Mr H had been inconvenienced by having to make 
more phonecalls than he should, but he wasnt persuaded that Mr Hs inconvenience 
justified a higher amount of compensation.
Mr H didnt agree with the view and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence I have, its apparent that Mr H has now accepted D&Gs payment of £119 
to settle the replacement of the player.
It now falls to me to look at Mr Hs inconvenience and decide whether D&G acted fairly. 
Having looked at the details of this case, I think D&G have. So Im not going to uphold Mr 
Hs complaint and Ill explain why. 
I can appreciate that it must have been inconvenient for Mr H to call a particular phone 
number, expecting to be able to make a claim, only to find that the number wasnt the correct 
one to call. 
Ive looked at the policy documents that D&G say were sent to Mr H and, from what I can 
see, the phone number he needed to use has changed over the years, which I think has 
caused some of the confusion here. From what Mr H has told this service, I think its also 
likely that he was given poor information when he called in, which again must have been 
confusing to him.
I do agree that D&G could have done more to make its process simpler, but Mr H has still 
been paid in full for a brand-new player soon after reporting the damage, and I am satisfied 
that D&G have acted fairly and reasonably and in line with its policy terms and conditions.
I can also see that Mr H made about three calls in total to D&G to make the claim and Im 
not persuaded that is excessive or unreasonable, or that it has caused Mr H significant 
inconvenience. So Im not going to ask D&G to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman