DRN-3959906
The complaint
Mr C complains about delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC in responding to his subject access 
request under the General Data Protection Regulation. 
What happened
Mr C made a subject access request in October 2021. 
Barclays says some of the information in Mr Cs subject access request didnt match the 
information on its system. It wrote to him, asking him to visit a branch with identification 
documents (ID) to update his information, and then re-submit his subject access request.
Our investigator said Barclays had responded fairly when Mr C submitted his subject access 
request. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said it was Barclays fault that the subject access request was 
submitted incorrectly. Mr C said he didnt receive the letter Barclays sent in November 2021. 
And, as two of the three Barclays advisers he spoke to about his complaint didnt mention 
the letter, he doesnt believe it was sent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator sent her view to Mr C in early November 2022. We extended the time for 
Mr C to respond to early March 2023. I need to be mindful of our duty to decide complaints 
with minimal formality and within a reasonable timeframe. 
While I appreciate Mr C has other matters to deal with, I think hes had a reasonable period 
of time to provide any comments and evidence in response to the investigators view. And 
having reviewed the available evidence, Im satisfied that I can reach a fair decision. 
Mr C made a subject access request in October 2021. Some of the personal details in 
Mr Cs subject access request didnt match Barclays records. Barclays provided evidence of 
this. I think its reasonable for Barclays to check the details on a subject access request 
before providing the requested information, which is likely to be sensitive.
Mr C said he asked for the subject access request and a member of Barclays staff 
submitted it for him. He says Barclays is responsible for the errors.   
Barclays says the subject access request was submitted online, and it cant make 
amendments to it. It says it has no record of a member of staff submitting the request on 
behalf of Mr C or of any calls from Mr C in October 2021. 
Based on the available evidence, I cant fairly find that Barclays is responsible for errors in 
the subject access request. 
Barclays wrote to Mr C in November 2021 asking him to visit his branch with ID to update his 
details and then re-submit his subject access request. Mr C says he didnt receive the letter. 
Barclays sent this letter to the address entered in Mr Cs subject access request. I think that 
was reasonable, in the circumstances. This letter was only intended to let Mr C know that 
Barclays couldnt act on the request and hed need to take further steps if he wanted the 
requested information. 
Barclays has to keep customers information secure. I think its reasonable for Barclays to 
ask that the details included in a subject access request are consistent with its records, and 
decline to provide what is likely to be sensitive information if thats not the case.
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration that he made a subject access request in late 2021 and hasnt 
received the information he requested. But based on the available evidence I dont think 
Barclays made an error or treated Mr C unfairly. Mr C can submit a new subject access 
request to Barclays, if he still requires this information. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman