DRN-1862196
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (BCS) handled his 
complaint against a payday lender. Mr S says hes lost out on a settlement because BCS 
didnt refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
What happened
In November 2018, Mr S instructed BCS to represent him in a complaint against a payday 
lender. He says he didnt hear anything back from BCS, so he appointed another claims 
management company (CMC). But he was told the other CMC couldnt act for him because 
BCS had notified the lender of his claim in October 2019. 
Mr S asked why BCS had taken eleven months to contact the lender. BCS told Mr S it had 
attempted to do so several times. Mr S contacted the lender directly and it offered him over 
£4,000 compensation. But the following day the lender went into administration. So            
Mr S didn't receive the settlement. 
Mr S complained to BCS. He thought BCS should have referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service after eight weeks had passed from it submitting his complaint 
to the lender. He asked BCS to pay him the amount the lender had offered to settle his 
payday loan complaint plus some extra for distress and inconvenience.
BCS said it had been chasing the payday lender for a response. It said it didnt send claims 
to the ombudsman service straight away as this can cause the claim to be extended in some 
circumstances. The lender going into administration was beyond BCSs control. But this 
didnt mean Mr S wouldnt get his funds. It would be looked into by the company put in place 
to deal with the administration. 
Mr S brought his complaint about BCS to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
concerns. She was satisfied BCS had tried to keep Mr S updated on the progress of his 
claim. But Mr S hadnt let BCS know his telephone number had changed. 
The investigator acknowledged that the ombudsman service would sometimes ask CMCs to 
allow lenders more time to resolve a complaint before referring it. But this was mainly in 
relation to payment protection insurance (PPI) claims. As Mr Ss complaint was about 
payday lending, she felt BCS should have referred it when it didnt receive a response from 
the lender for more than eight weeks.
The investigator said shed spoken to staff dealing with payday loan complaints at the 
ombudsman service and had been told there was a backlog with these types of cases. So 
even if BCS had referred Mr Ss complaint, it might not have been investigated before the 
payday lender went into administration. If this had been the case, the ombudsman service 
would have told Mr S to bring his complaint directly to the administrators. 
The investigator didn't know if the ombudsman service would have resolved the complaint in 
time for Mr S to receive redress before the lender went into administration. But she felt that 
BCS wasn't acting in Mr Ss best interests by not referring it. She recommended BCS pay    Mr S £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. She also suggested Mr S contact 
the payday lenders administrators to try to claim his settlement.
BCS disagreed with our investigators view. It said Mr S had changed his mobile number and 
refused to contact it. Even if BCS had sent forms to Mr S to refer his complaint to the 
ombudsman service, it didn't think it would have received them back from Mr S because he 
hadn't returned paperwork it had sent regarding his other claims.  
As BCS disagreed with our investigators opinion, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain 
why.
BCS was required to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of Mr S. 
BCS says it sent Mr Ss complaint to the lender several times since November 2018 but 
didnt receive an acknowledgement until October 2019. It says the lender kept saying it 
hadnt received the complaint. But it isnt able to provide evidence of submitting it multiple 
times. And it also cant provide evidence of the lender saying it hadnt received the complaint 
as these conversations happened over the phone. 
If this is what happened, I would have expected BCS to have done more than send the 
complaint to the lender repeatedly, given the timeframe involved. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service would have had the power to look into Mr Ss complaint 
once eight weeks had passed from it first being submitted to the lender. BCS says it didnt 
refer Mr Ss complaint to the ombudsman service within this eleven month timeframe 
because it had been told in the past to allow businesses more time.
I dont think this is a strong enough reason to have not referred Mr Ss complaint to the 
ombudsman service. While it might have been given this advice about other cases, I dont 
think it was reasonable for BCS to apply this to Mr Ss case because there are likely to have 
been a number of different factors involved. 
BCS says it doesnt think Mr S would likely have returned forms required to refer his 
complaint to the ombudsman service. It says it didnt respond to its requests for further 
information relating to other claims it was representing him in. But from what Ive been told, 
BCS didnt ask Mr S to complete paperwork for the ombudsman service for this claim. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to assume he wouldnt have done so.
Having considered BCSs points, Im not persuaded it's acted in Mr Ss best interests. I think 
it should have done more to progress his claim. 
I cant determine what would have happened if BCS had referred Mr Ss complaint to the 
ombudsman service. He might not have received an outcome or settlement before the 
lender went into administration. But its also possible that he might have done. So, I think    
Mr S has lost out on the opportunity of a potential settlement from the lender before it went 
into administration. And this will have been frustrating for Mr S. So, I agree with our investigators recommendation that BCS pay Mr S £100 to compensate 
him for the trouble and upset hes experienced because it didnt take sufficient action to 
progress his complaint.
Putting things right
BCS should pay Mr S £100 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Brazier Consulting 
Services Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman