DRN-3030793
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1984. Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think it likely Lloyds made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why.  
There isnt any documentation available from the time of the sale, but I dont find this 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place  over 30 years ago  and 
businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork indefinitely. In such a situation I need to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the very limited 
information available to me and for me to uphold the complaint I would have to think 
that Mrs Ws account was more likely than that of Lloyds.
As Mrs W has said the sale was made during a meeting and Lloyds hasnt disagreed 
with this, I think it most likely that the policy would have been discussed with her by 
the adviser she saw. Lloyds has told us that the optional nature of taking the policy 
would have been made clear and Ive thought carefully about this and also taken into 
account that Mrs Ws recollections from over 30 years ago may have been affected 
over time.
So, when taking everything into account, including what we know about Lloyds sales
processes from the relevant time period, I havent seen enough to say that its more
likely that Lloyds didnt make it clear the policy was optional or that Mrs W didnt 
agree to take it.
Lloyds has assumed it recommended the PPI to Mrs W, so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for her. And the evidence about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs W was 
eligible for the cover and she had limited means to fall back on  such as savings or 
employee benefits if she wasnt working  so she had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Ws employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs W as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. Mrs W has said she was financially stretched at the time, but 
I havent seen anything to show that it was unaffordable for her  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs W would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs W would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman