DRN-2500823
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to action her request to transfer her 
Individual Savings Account (ISA). This meant she missed out on the higher rate of interest
the new ISA provider was offering at the time.
In making her complaint, Mrs C is represented by her solicitors.
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs C completed the required forms to transfer the ISA she held with
Barclays to another provider. However, when Barclays received the request, it declined the
transfer. This was because Mrs Cs name appeared differently on the ISA she opened with
the other provider. Mrs C said this was because she used her driving licence to open the ISA
with Barclays, but this had now expired. So, she used her passport to open the ISA with the
other provider and her full name shows differently in that.
Mrs Cs son contacted Barclays on her behalf to find out why the transfer had failed, and it
said that the names would need to match on both ISAs.
Mrs C tried to contact Barclays through a webchat to ask for an email address to send in a
complaint. But she felt the response was unhelpful, and she had to post her complaint letter
instead. She said that Barclays had failed to respond to the other ISA providers request in
time and would not discuss the transfer with it. She felt that Barclays was trying to keep her
money and hadnt contacted her to say why the transfer couldnt go through.
Mrs C said that she had provided a legal statutory declaration which set out the reasons her
name appeared differently and that she was the same person. She had to contact Barclays
several times to try and get answers and had to explain the situation each time.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Barclays told us that the ISA couldnt be
transferred if the names on the accounts differed and suggested that Mrs C change how her
name shows on her Barclays ISA to the same as with the other provider, and that she would
need to visit a branch to do this. It also apologised for the poor customer service Mrs C had
experienced and for the problems in using its webchat. To recognise this, and the time taken
to look into her concerns, it offered her £100.
Our investigator explained this to Mrs Cs representatives, however, they said that Mrs C
had provided Barclays with a statutory declaration of her names, and Mrs C only has one
National Insurance number. They said another financial business had already completed
Mrs Cs ISA transfer based on the same information Barclays had. The representatives said
Barclays should have completed the transfer and hadnt properly addressed Mrs Cs
complaint. The representatives asked that their costs also be taken into account.
The investigators opinion
The investigator said he wouldnt expect Barclays to process an ISA transfer request where
the names were different, and he didnt think its decision to decline it was unreasonable as
he believed Barclays was adhering to government guidelines. However, he didnt think the
£100 Barclays had offered was fair after considering the trouble and upset the delays had
caused Mrs C. So, he said it should increase this amount to £200. The investigator didnt
think Barclays should be liable for any loss of interest Mrs C had for the transfer not going
ahead.
Barclays agreed with the request to increase the compensation to £200 but Mrs Cs
representatives didnt accept the investigators findings. They said Mrs C had provided a
declaration of her identity and her National Insurance number was the same for both
accounts. They said the findings didnt address how Mrs C could release her money from
Barclays. Mrs Cs representatives asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020. In summary, I said 
that Barclays should transfer Mrs Cs ISA if she wished and pay her £200 for the poor level 
of customer service she received. 
I looked over the information Barclays provided about the electronic transfer request it 
received from the other ISA provider. And I could see that this showed a different surname 
for Mrs C. However, her given names; date of birth; address and National Insurance number 
were all the same on both accounts.
As this request was made electronically, it didnt include any paperwork like the statutory
declaration Mrs C has referred to, so this might not have been taken into account when the
request was initially declined because of the way her name appeared. However, this
declaration did explain why her name appears in different ways.
I thought the important detail was that Mrs Cs National Insurance number was same on both
accounts. This is what a customer needs to provide in order to take out an ISA, and its the
way that HMRC can make sure that an investor doesnt exceed their ISA allowance.
I said I appreciated that the simplest solution for Mrs C to make this transfer would be for her 
name to appear on both accounts in the same format. She told us that she no longer has a 
valid driving licence to provide photographic identification for her surname to appear as C 
and that it is detailed differently in her passport  which is what she used to open her other 
ISA. So it seems that it could only be with Barclays that her surname could be changed to 
match that of the other account.
Barclays said that this could be done if she visited a branch with her passport; the old driving 
licence; and the declaration that shows the different names she is known by.
However, given the circumstances that Mrs C had already provided much of this information
during her complaint and that she intended on closing the Barclays ISA to transfer it to the
other provider, I thought it would be reasonable for Barclays to process this transfer based 
on the information it has. I said the National Insurance number being the same was
particularly important as this should be satisfactory to show that the ISA funds are being
held by the same person for HMRC purposes.So, while I accepted that Barclays was following its processes by declining the transfer
because of the different surnames on the accounts; the application of those to Mrs Cs
particular circumstances meant that she had been treated unfairly. I thought Barclays had 
been provided with enough information to show that the ISA funds would be remaining with 
the same person. Transferring it out in any other way would mean that Mrs C would lose her 
ISA benefit for the tax years she invested with Barclays as it would be a withdrawal of those
funds.
I could see that Mrs C was receiving monthly interest on her Barclays ISA, which was added
to her balance. In the 2017-2018 period the interest rate was 0.55%. From the application
form, it seemed Mrs C would have received 1.75% for a fixed deposit of two years from the
other provider. And this interest rate was no longer available for Mrs C to take advantage of.
So, while she continued to earn interest on her ISA funds while they remain with Barclays, I 
said I appreciated that this is likely to be less than if the transfer had gone ahead when she 
wanted.
But I didnt necessarily think that Barclays was wrong not to go ahead with the transfer 
based upon the information it received from the electronic request. And it told us that the 
reason for the decline was communicated back to the other provider.
Barclays acknowledged the customer service Mrs C received was poor. I thought that a
clearer explanation of the issues with the transfer, or what could be done to overcome them,
may have meant this could have been resolved sooner for her. Barclays said that it was
willing to increase its offer to Mrs C to £200, and I thought that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. I didnt think Barclays should be required to compensate Mrs C for any
change in the interest rates available from the new provider or pay any additional costs of
Mrs C using her representatives, when this was her choice to do so.
The responses
Barclays responded to say that it would be contacting the other ISA provider to see if it 
would be willing to accept the transfer history document with the different information about 
Mrs Cs name. It said that HMRC guidelines say to reject funds if the information provided on 
a transfer history document doesnt match the information held for a customer.
Mrs Cs representatives asked how long the process would take as they felt the matter 
should have been resolved much more quickly. They said Barclays hadnt been in contact 
with Mrs C. The representatives said that it was false to suggest that the other ISA provider 
made the request to transfer the ISA without including her statutory declaration. They also 
said that Barclays hadnt offered Mrs C the opportunity to visit a branch to sort out the issue 
with her surname. The representatives considered the offer of compensation inadequate and 
were disappointed that I had not awarded any enhanced compensation or legal costs. It said 
that it doubted that Mrs C wouldve been able to advance her complaint without its 
involvement. It said Mrs C must reserve her rights fully against Barclays Bank, and any offer 
or decision was entirely without prejudice to any of Mrs Cs rights of actions or assertions. 
Barclays attempted to contact the other ISA provider, but it had not responded. The 
investigator contacted Mrs Cs representatives to ask her to ger in contact with the other ISA 
provider and ask it to initiate another transfer request if it was willing to accept the ISA 
transfer in the different name details. Mrs Cs representatives told us that it believed that this 
had been done. However, Barclays said that it hadnt received any contact from the other 
ISA provider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the points Mrs Cs representatives have raised. In my provisional 
decision, I noted that the ISA transfer request from the other provider was initially made 
electronically to Barclays. This is from the information provided, which indicated that the 
statutory declaration hadnt been received by Barclays in that electronic request. 
In its submission to our service, Barclays said that Mrs C could change her name with it, by 
visiting a branch with her expired driving licence, passport and documentation which showed 
the different names she is known by. It said that, once the name had been changed, the 
other ISA provider could request the transfer again.  However, as I said in my provisional 
decision, in the circumstances and considering that it was Mrs Cs wish to close her Barclays 
account, I thought it would be reasonable for Barclays to process this transfer on the 
information it has. 
And I think this is what Barclays has taken reasonable steps to do. Following my provisional 
decision, it has tried to progress Mrs Cs ISA transfer by contacting the other provider. But it 
hasnt received a response, and so asked Mrs C to request the transfer to be initiated again, 
if the other provider is willing to accept it.
The transfer needs to be conducted between the two providers directly, so I think Barclays 
actions have been an understandable way forward to try and meet what Mrs C has wanted. 
However, it is unable to go any further with this without the involvement from the other ISA 
provider.
Mrs Cs representatives have said that they believe Mrs C has contacted the other ISA 
provider. So it seems that, should that ISA provider accept Mrs Cs transfer in on the basis of 
her name details differing, then Barclays should be in a position to go ahead with organising 
that transfer. 
Although I appreciate that Mrs C has incurred the costs of the legal representation of her 
solicitors, this was her choice to do so. While she was of course within her rights to do this, 
such representation isnt a requirement of either making a complaint to Barclays or in 
bringing her complaint to our informal service. So I dont think this means that Mrs C was 
unable to make her complaint without legal representation. Its for this reason that I dont 
consider Barclays should be responsible for the costs of her representatives. It remains that I 
consider the amount of £200 fairly represents the poor level of customer service Mrs C 
received. 
My final decision
My decision is that, subject to the transfer in being acceptable to the other ISA provider and 
it initiating an appropriate ISA transfer request, Barclays Bank UK PLC should proceed with 
the transfer for Mrs C. Should Mrs C no longer wish this to go ahead, then she should let 
Barclays know.
Barclays should also pay Mrs C £200 as compensation for the poor level of customer service 
she received.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman