DRN-3330832
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Secure 
Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr T entered into a 42 month hire purchase agreement with Moneyway 
for a used car. The car was around seven and half years and had a mileage of around 
88,500.
In August 2021 Mr T contacted Moneyway and complained that the car had broken down 
as it had a water leak, an oil leak and the air con didnt work. He also said that the car had 
failed its MOT due to a defective headlamp. In a later call to Moneyway, Mr T said that the 
dealer had agreed to pay £100 towards repairing the headlight but this wouldnt cover the 
full costs of repairs even though he had tried to source a second-hand part.
Although Mr T had at first told Moneyway that he would like the car repaired, he later said 
he would like to reject it because of the way the supplying dealership had dealt with his 
complaints about the car.
Moneyway arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer. This 
inspection took place in October 2021. The engineer reported that they found the 
following faults with the car:
That the radiator was leaking coolant
That there was an oil leak in the engine
That the vehicle wasnt holding any pressure within the coolant system
That the air con was inoperable.
However, the independent engineer also said that in their opinion these faults hadnt 
been present or developing at the point of supply as Mr T had been able to drive 
around 2,500 miles in the car since hed acquired it. The engineer said they thought 
these issues would have become noticeable after the car had been driven around 
1,000 to 1,500 miles. The engineer said they thought the car had been durable as the 
faults with the car werent major ones and Mr T had covered in excess of the average 
mileage which was around 500 to 800 miles per month before theyd developed.
Moneyway didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint and said the car had been fit for purpose 
when it had been supplied. Moneyway offered as a gesture of goodwill to contribute 
£750 towards the cost of the repairs and said the supplying dealer had also offered to 
pay £250 making a total of £1,000. Mr T declined the offer and complained to this 
service.
Mr T said the car had broken down around three weeks after hed acquired it and he 
strongly disagreed that the car had been of satisfactory quality. He said he wanted to 
reject the car and cancel the agreement.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
was satisfied on the independent engineers evidence the faults with the car hadnt been 
present or developing at the point of supply. Our investigator also said she thought that 
the faults were due to a reasonable level of fair wear and tear when looking at the 
mileage undertaken by Mr T in the car. She said she thought Moneyways goodwill 
gesture was fair and she wouldnt ask it to do more.
Mr T disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said he didnt accept that a 
car developing a fault three weeks after it had been supplied meant it could be of 
satisfactory quality.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement, the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) there is an implied term that goods 
supplied are of satisfactory quality. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would accept as reasonable when taking into account all the relevant factors which, when 
looking at cars, would include things like its age and mileage. When Im looking at 
whether a car was of satisfactory quality, Ill look at whether the car was fit for purpose, 
free from minor defects, durable and safe.
Here, the car was around seven and half years old and had a mileage of about 88,500. 
So, I would have expected it to have some wear and tear already and need maintenance 
more often than a new car which I would expect to be fault free.
Mr T said that when he acquired the car, he was told by the supplying dealer that it had 
had an oil leak which had been fixed. However, he said that around three weeks later the 
car broke down due to an oil and water leak. Mr T also raised other defects such as the 
air con and headlamp not working. Id seen that hed raised these issues with Moneyway 
and sought to reject the car around 41 days after the inception of the agreement.
I didnt know what was said by the supplying dealer regarding any past oil leak or whether 
there had been earlier repairs. I didnt think I had enough evidence that there was a 
recurrent fault with the car. And Id seen that the car had passed its MOT without any 
advisories in both November 2020 and July 2021. Id also seen that the independent 
engineers view was that had the car been supplied to Mr T with the faults theyd found 
when inspecting it in October 2021, then he wouldnt have been able to achieve the 
mileage that  he had. They said these faults would have become evident far sooner than 
they had. Looking at the evidence, I thought it was reasonable to say it was more likely 
than not that the faults developed after the car had been supplied to Mr T.
However, I then needed to consider whether the car had been as durable as a 
reasonable person would have reasonably expected. As set out above, some wear and 
tear was to be expected in a car of this age and mileage. But I disagreed with the 
independents engineers view that this car would have been considered durable. The car 
had broken down around one month after Mr T had acquired it. And although hed driven 
around 2,500 miles in it during that time, I didnt think that could be considered to be such 
excessive use that maintenance and repairs would reasonably be expected. I thought a 
reasonable person would have expected Mr T to have been able to use the car for longer 
and driven it further before the need for repairs would arise.
The independent engineer had described the faults as not being major defects but I hadnt seen that the cause of the radiator leaking or of the oil leak had actually been 
identified. I accepted that the headlamp fault was likely to be a wear and tear issue. 
However, even if the leaks might not be major I thought it was fair to describe them as 
more than minor since Id seen the independent engineer had said the car should not be 
used until repairs had been carried out.
So, I was satisfied on the evidence that Id seen that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply as it was not as durable as would have been reasonably 
expected.
The CRA sets out the remedies for when goods arent of satisfactory quality. Firstly, 
theres a short-term right to reject goods that applies within the first 30 days. Id seen Mr T 
said the faults with the car arose within three weeks, but I hadnt seen any evidence hed 
asked to reject the car straight away. There appeared to have been some dialogue with 
the supplying dealer over the headlamp and later on the about the oil and water leaks. But 
I hadnt seen any evidence that Mr T had asked to reject the car at that point.
Looking at the contact notes kept by Moneyway, Mr T had made contact around one 
month after taking the car and said he would like to have the car repaired and keep it. It 
was only in a later call around a week later that he raised rejecting the car due to finding 
the supplying dealer unhelpful. I didnt think I could reasonably say that Mr T had tried to 
use his short term right to reject the car.
After the first 30 days, the retailer has a right to repair and its only if this is not possible or 
unsuccessful that Mr T would be entitled to reject the car. Id seen that Moneyway and the 
supplying dealer had both made offers of contributing towards the repairs which Mr T had 
rejected. I hadnt been supplied with any evidence as to the actual costs of the repairs, 
but as the gesture was described as a contribution then I thought it was fair to assume 
that it had been accepted the repairs would cost over £1,000.
Id seen that Mr T had returned the car to the supplying dealer during this complaint as he 
said he couldnt afford to keep it any longer when he was unable to use it. I also 
understood that there was some concern as to the condition of the cars bodywork which 
the supplying dealer said was now poor. Mr T did not appear to have provided any 
paperwork for the car when hed left it and the supplying dealer said it had been unable to 
make contact with him.
While I accepted that under the CRA the retailer (and so Moneyway) should have an 
opportunity to undertake repairs I didnt think this was a workable option here in the 
circumstances. I thought it would be fair and reasonable for the agreement to be 
cancelled with nothing further to pay for Mr T and for Moneyway to collect the car.
However, under the agreement Mr T was responsible for keeping the car in a good 
condition until either he had fully paid for it or until Moneyway had taken re-possession of 
it. And although I could understand why he had handed the car back, he appeared to 
have done so without contacting Moneyway or the supplying dealer. In light of that, I 
thought it was fair that Mr T remained liable for any damage to the bodywork that was 
beyond fair wear and tear for a car of that age and mileage. So, after the car has been 
collected and inspected it will be for Moneyway to decide whether it wishes to invoice Mr 
T for any damage found to its bodywork. And if it does take that action, and Mr T 
disagrees with that invoice, then he may raise that as a separate complaint should he 
wish to do so.
Id seen that Mr T had made two payments under the agreement for the months of 
August and September 2021. Id also seen that he was able to drive the car around an additional 2,500 miles. I thought it was fair that Mr T paid for the usage he had from the 
car, so I was not going to ask for any reimbursements to be made to him by Moneyway.
In light of way Mr T had returned the car to the supplying dealer, and the total number 
of miles hed driven in it, I didnt think it was appropriate or fair for Moneyway to pay 
compensation to Mr T.
Moneyway should remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ts 
credit file. However, should there be any end of contract charges for the cars bodywork 
and Mr T then doesnt pay those as requested and/or agreed, then Moneyway could 
report that matter to the credit reference agencies.
For the reasons given above I intended to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I asked Moneyway to 
do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr T.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ts credit file.
Mr T has agreed with my provisional decision and Moneyway has confirmed it has nothing 
else to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to reconsider any parts of my provisional decision, I 
have looked again at the conclusions Ive reached and the reasons for doing so. I havent 
changed my view. Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply as it wasnt as durable as would reasonably be expected. And Im upholding Mr Ts 
complaint.
For the reasons given, I think it would be fair for Mr T to now reject the car and have the 
agreement cancelled. But, as explained above, I dont think Moneyway should pay Mr T 
compensation for having to deal with the faulty car. I also think that as he has had use of 
the car he should pay for that. So, Im not asking for any payments made by Mr T under 
the agreement to be repaid to him by Moneyway. 
However, when looking at how the car was handed back to the supplying dealer by Mr T, 
I think its fair that should any damage be found to the cars bodywork, that is considered 
beyond fair and wear when collected by Moneyway, that Mr T is liable for that. Any end of 
contract invoice for any damage will be a matter for Moneyway. And if Mr T receives an 
invoice and is unhappy as to its contents then he can raise that should he wish to do so.  
Putting things right
Im asking Moneyway to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr T.Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ts credit file.
Moneyway is entitled to send Mr T an end of contract invoice if damage is found to the 
cars bodywork that is considered beyond fair wear and tear. And, should there be any 
end of contract charges for the cars bodywork and should Mr T then not pay those as 
requested and/or agreed, then Moneyway may report that to the credit reference 
agencies.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Im asking Secure Trust 
Bank Plc trading as Moneyway to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr T.
Remove adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ts credit file.
Moneyway is entitled to send Mr T an end of contract invoice if damage is found to the 
cars bodywork that is considered beyond fair wear and tear. And, should there be any 
end of contract charges for the cars bodywork and should Mr T then not pay those as 
requested and/or agreed, then Moneyway may report that to the credit reference 
agencies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman