DRN-2983076
The complaint
Mr K complains Lloyds Bank PLC treated him unfairly during several visits to his local 
branch.
What happened
Mr K complained to Lloyds about the way hed been treated during branch visits. Dissatisfied 
with its response he asked our service for an independent review. Mr K didnt agree with the 
conclusions the investigator reached so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note from the file Mr K would like me to call him to discuss his complaint; however, that is 
not part of our process, and Im satisfied that I can reach a decision based on the evidence 
that is available to me.
Mr K says during the pandemic there were times he needed to attend his local branch. He 
says hes exempt from wearing a face covering but, on each visit, he was asked to wear 
one, and when he explained he was exempt, was asked for proof. He thinks he was 
discriminated against because there was no requirement for him to prove he didnt need to 
wear a face covering. He further feels the branch staff harassed him. 
Its not my role to say whether Lloyds has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the 
Courts. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to 
decide that, however, I have to take a number of things into account including relevant law 
and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its for 
the Courts to say whether or not Lloyds has breached the Equality Act 2010, Im required to 
take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
I wasnt present during Mr Ks branch visits when he says he was treated unfairly. Nor is 
there any evidence  such as a written record or call recording  which clearly shows he was 
treated unfairly. Instead, I have testimonies provided by the people involved, namely Mr K 
and the branch manager. Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as much of it
is here, I must decide the complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I
consider is most likely to have happened based on the information presented to me. Having
done so, Im not persuaded Lloyds treated Mr K unfairly. Ill explain why.
The pandemic presented huge challenges and these were  and are  unprecedented times 
for everyone. Businesses, such as Lloyds, had to adapt so they could continue to offer 
essential services and their customers also had to adjust their everyday lives. Various 
government guidance has been issued, and this has included rules around wearing face 
coverings. Mr K hasnt said when his branch visits took place, but it would appear they were 
spread out over a period of time, with the visit which ultimately initiated this complaint being 
in March 2021.
Its not in dispute that people were expected to wear face coverings unless they were 
exempt. And as Mr K has pointed out, there was no requirement for people to demonstrate 
they were exempt through an outward sign, like a card or badge. And nor was there a need 
to provide medical evidence that an exemption applied. But it was expected of customer 
facing businesses to encourage people to wear face coverings. Im not persuaded it was 
unfair for Lloyds to ask Mr K to wear a covering when he visited its branch.
Mr K says when he explained he was exempt he was asked for proof. I accept this may have 
happened in some form or another, which Mr K may have found invasive. But again, these 
were unusual times and importantly, Mr K hasnt said he was at any time denied entry to the 
branch. So even if branch staff did query the nature of his exemption on occasion, which I 
dont think is wholly unreasonable when theyre looking out for the safety of their colleagues 
and customers, Im not persuaded his ability to undertake his banking was impacted. 
Mr K says the branch staff harassed him and talked about him between themselves. The 
branch manager says Mr K was at times rude and abrupt to various branch staff, and this led 
to a warning letter being sent to him. Clearly theres a breakdown in the relationship here 
and it seems likely to me all parties could have acted differently. Mr K was sent a warning 
letter, rather than an account closure letter, so the disagreement between the parties didnt 
lead to a disruption in Mr Ks banking arrangements. Mr K may want to consider alternative 
banking arrangements if he considers the relationship to be beyond repair. 
Overall, these were difficult times for everyone and I dont think in these specific 
circumstances Lloyds treated Mr K unfairly or in a different way to other customers. I say this 
because, as set out above, Im not persuaded Lloyds actions were wholly unreasonable in 
the unique circumstances of the pandemic, or that the service Mr K received was poor to the 
extent I can fairly require Lloyds to compensate him. 
I note however, Mr K says he was offered £25 compensation when his complaint was first 
raised. Lloyds doesnt have a record of this but has said it will honour the offer regardless. If 
Mr K wants to accept this then he should get in touch with Lloyds directly.
I know Mr K will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Lloyds  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman