DRN-2563328
The complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold to him a PPI policy.
What happened
Mr M spoke to Barclaycard over the phone to discuss insurance to protect his credit card 
repayments in September 1995. It covered him if he lost his job and for the length of time he 
was sick.
Mr M thinks Barclaycard mis-sold the policy. He says it was never made clear to him the 
policy was optional. He says he took the policy because he was led to believe he had to, to 
secure the flexible credit.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints on our website. Ive used this approach in        
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and I will explain why. 
Ive looked at what Mr M has said about how the policy was sold but he has not given a 
detailed account about what happened during the phone call and so it has been difficult for 
me to understand what happened during the sale. This is understandable though 
considering the sale took place many years ago.
Ive also not been able to see much from the sale that took place in 1995 and there is very 
limited information available from Barclaycard about the sales documentation that would 
have been used. But based on what I know of how Barclaycard conducted sales during that 
time and because the sale took place after the card was taken out (I can see that the card 
was active some time before the phone call where both parties discussed the PPI policy), I 
am not persuaded that it was sold as Mr M says it was. I havent on this occasion seen 
enough to make that conclusion.
Moving on, I cant be sure, but I think it is more likely me that Barclaycard advised Mr M to 
buy the policy rather than just giving him information and letting him make his own mind up. 
So, it had to make sure the policy was right for him. And based on what hes told us about 
his circumstances, sick pay, health and job at the time I think it was suitable for him. 
Even though Mr M told us he had means to cover his repayments (between 3 and 6 months 
full sick pay), the policy could pay out on top of his provisions and for longer. It looks like Mr 
M could afford the policy and it could offer him a useful benefit if he made a successful 
claim. And he doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the key things the policy didnt 
cover.
All of this means that I dont think Barclaycard mis-sold this policy to Mr M. So, I dont think it 
would be fair to tell Barclaycard to give him back what he paid for it. I know this will be a 
disappointment for Mr M but I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman