DRN-3625101
The complaint
Mrs K complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Evans Mastercard (NewDay) upgraded her 
store card account to a credit card account against her wishes.
What happened
Mrs K held an Evans branded store card for a number of years. More recently, NewDay 
provided and managed the administration of the account.
Due to changes within the parent company of Evans, Mrs K says she was given the option to 
upgrade her store card to a credit card. But for personal reasons, Mrs K didnt want her 
account to be upgraded. She says she told NewDay this on several occasions, but they 
continued to send her reminders.
NewDay confirm they wrote to Mrs K in June 2021 to explain they were upgrading her 
account to a Mastercard credit card. They gave Mrs K the option to decline the upgrade. But 
Mrs K says she didnt receive that letter. And because NewDay didnt hear from her, they 
sent a new Mastercard to her in October 2021.
Mrs K was extremely unhappy with what had happened. She said this had upset her greatly 
and caused significant distress and worry. So, she contacted NewDay to complain. She 
thought NewDay should compensate her for what had happened and its impact on her.
NewDay agreed to cancel the new card and investigate. Later that month, NewDay 
responded to Mrs Ks complaint in writing. They apologised if Mrs K hadnt received their 
letter but thought they shouldnt be held responsible if it wasnt received. NewDay didnt feel 
theyd acted unfairly or unreasonably, so werent in a position to compensate Mrs K. 
Unhappy with NewDays findings, Mrs K referred her complaint to this service.
Have considered all the information and evidence available, our investigator didnt think 
NewDay had acted unfairly or unreasonably. Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators 
findings. She didnt think all the facts had been considered. She said NewDay had offered 
her incentives to change to a credit card, and this hadnt been considered. But our 
investigator wasnt able to find any evidence to support Mrs Ks testimony, so found no 
reason to vary from their original view.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ks complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Mrs 
Ks complaint here. 
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also 
not our role to ask a business to alter their policies or procedures or impose improvements 
on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of 
the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mrs Ks experience with them. When considering her complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  
where they apply. 
Mrs K has been very open with this service about her personal circumstances and Id like to 
thank her for that. I completely understand and appreciate why she didnt want to upgrade 
her Evans store card account to a credit card.
Mrs K says NewDay had previously written to her on many occasions asking her to change 
her account to a credit card. She says shed received at least four letters and had called 
them to explain her individual circumstances. Mrs K asked them to stop sending her letters, 
which she says they agreed to. 
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I believe was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available 
and the wider surrounding circumstances. Unfortunately, NewDay arent able to provide any 
file notes or records to support Mrs Ks recollections. Her account has now been closed and 
NewDays call recordings are only kept for 12 months. Mrs K is also unable to provide copies 
of any of the letters she refers to. So, while I dont doubt Mrs Ks recollections, the lack of 
evidence from both parties means I couldnt reasonably say NewDay acted unfairly here. 
NewDay have provided a sample copy of the letter they sent to Mrs K in June 2021. They 
said the Evans Store Card programme was closing and invited her to upgrade to an Evans 
Mastercard. The letter also made it clear what Mrs K needed to do if she didnt want to 
upgrade her account. Unfortunately, Mrs K says she didnt receive this letter. But she has 
confirmed she did receive the credit card in October 2021. So, it does appear NewDay held 
the correct address for Mrs K.
NewDay, like many businesses, use a third-party company to deliver their letters. So, once 
despatched, they wouldnt then have control over the letters final delivery. Because of that, I 
cant reasonably hold them responsible if it wasnt delivered to Mrs K.
Ive considered very carefully Mrs Ks complaint here. NewDay werent able to continue her 
Evans store card account. This was their business decision and not something this service is 
able to challenge or change. So, accepting Mrs K says shed asked them to stop contacting 
her about upgrading, I believe the nature of the account changes did mean a choice had to 
be made to either upgrade the account or close it. And before NewDay did that, they needed 
to explain that to her and at least provide the option. There was no longer a choice to leave 
things as they were, and I dont think it wouldve been right to simply close Mrs Ks account 
without first giving her the option.
I completely understand and appreciate Mrs Ks strength of feeling here. Ultimately, once 
she contacted NewDay, they cancelled her new card immediately without Mrs K ever using 
it. They also closed her account and reflected this in her credit file  all without any 
unnecessary delays. This is what I would expect them to do here. 
I realise Mrs K will be very disappointed. But I havent found anything to suggest NewDay 
did anything wrong here. And theres certainly nothing within the information Ive seen to 
suggest she was treated unfairly or unreasonably. So, I wont be asking NewDay to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman