DRN-1397980
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
his buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H insured his house with Triton for several years. His policy was due for renewal at the 
beginning of August 2019 and, because he hadnt received any paperwork from Triton, he 
called them the day before asking for his renewal information. Mr H didnt hear from Triton 
then and he still hadnt heard from Triton or received any paperwork a week or so later, so 
he called them again. He was told that his existing insurer was unable to offer him the policy 
he wanted. Mr H managed to arrange his insurance elsewhere, but hed been left without 
cover for a month. 
Mr H complained to Triton but didnt receive a response. 
As Triton didnt respond to Mr Hs complaint, he brought it to our service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She felt the situation would have caused Mr H some inconvenience. 
She asked Triton to pay Mr H £100 in compensation. 
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr H has provided. I find his 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mr H acted diligently by chasing Triton for his renewal information. Its not clear why Mr H 
didnt arrange adequate insurance for his house at the time he made his first phone call, 
rather than wait for Triton to respond, but irrespective of that Triton hasnt handled the 
renewal of Mr Hs policy well or as they would be expected to deal with it. Thankfully, the 
impact of Tritons actions on Mr H is minimal.  
However, Triton havent responded to Mr Hs complaint or concerns. And it would have been 
distressing for Mr H to be told after his renewal date that his insurers werent prepared to 
offer him the cover he required. Thankfully, Mr H hadnt need to make a claim on his 
insurance policy. But Tritons lack of communication throughout the process has caused Mr 
H inconvenience. Because of this, its reasonable for Triton to pay Mr H £100 compensation. 
I think this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr H £100 compensation for the upset hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman