DRN-3052822
The complaint
Mr W complains about the decision of Covea Insurance plc to decline his business 
interruption insurance claim for losses arising from the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr W trades as an osteopathic business and held a commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by Covea. Mr W contacted Covea in order to claim for losses relating to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Covea informed Mr W that his losses would not be covered by the 
policy. Mr W disputed this and complained, bringing his complaint to this service. 
It seems Mr W has relied on one policy document, which provides cover for any human 
infectious or contagious disease, provided it occurs at the premises. However, Covea has 
said his cover related to a different policy document. This document sets out the cover 
relating to disease is limited to a specific list of diseases, which does not include COVID-19. 
Our Investigator considered that the applicable policy was the one Covea had referred to, 
and explained that if Mr W had been provided with different wording, he would have to 
contact his broker in relation to this. She found that the wording Covea had relied upon did 
not provide cover for the circumstances of Mr Ws claim, so did not think his complaint 
should be upheld. Mr W remained unsatisfied with this, and his complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr W and his business, I wont be upholding his complaint. My 
reasons are substantially the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy Mr W took out.
This is where much of the source of this complaint lies. However, I should firstly set out that 
where a customer has employed a broker to arrange an insurance policy for them, the 
responsibility lies on the broker to provide the correct documentation to the customer. As 
such, this complaint is merely limited to considering whether Covea was correct in declining 
the claim based on the policy wording that applied to the cover purchased. As part of this, it 
is necessary for me to comment on which policy wording is relevant to the cover purchased. 
But I have not considered whether, at the time of the sale, the correct wording was provided 
to Mr W or not. 
Mr W has provided a copy of policy wording called the Offices & Surgeries Policy. The 
policy document Covea has supplied is titled the Packaged Offices and Surgeries policy. 
Covea has also provided a copy of the policy schedule issued in relation to Mr Ws cover. 
This sets out the details of Mr Ws business and the cover he has taken out. It identifies the 
relevant policy as the Packaged: Offices and Surgeries POLICY. 
So, it appears Covea underwrites two similarly named policies. However, it has said that 
Mr W was insured under the Packaged version of these and this is also what his policy 
schedule indicates. It isnt clear how Mr W was provided with a copy of the other policy 
wording. But I am satisfied that the cover he had was as set out in the Packaged policy.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of this policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Mr Ws business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mr Ws claim. And I 
think Covea acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mr Ws claim under this area of 
cover.
Mr Ws policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides 
cover where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing 
cover in the event of certain diseases.
The Compulsory Closure extension covers:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from:
(a) discovery of a Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease at the Premises

The term Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease is defined by a set list of 
named diseases. This list does not include COVID-19. At the end of this list, the following 
statement appears:
No other disease will be added to the above list without [Coveas] prior written 
consent.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Mr W with cover for the circumstances of his claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt 
one of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Covea to include it in the 
policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I 
dont think Covea intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. 
Covea deliberately chose to define Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease by 
reference to a static list of certain diseases. And then said that further diseases would only 
be added to this list if they agreed.I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy Mr W has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy Mr W has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious 
Disease in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does 
not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy 
can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined 
list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
It isnt clear that Mr Ws business would have been closed due to the government-imposed 
restrictions first introduced in March 2020, nor that COVID-19 had occurred at his business 
premises (which is required by both the wording I consider he is covered by, and the 
alternative wording he has referred to). But any losses leading to his claim did apparently 
result from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases that is included in 
the policy wording I consider it applicable to Mr Ws claim. 
As cover was not provided under this area of Mr Ws policy for losses resulting from 
business interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Coveas decision to decline the 
claim for losses relating to this disease was in line with the policy, and in all the 
circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Covea should have met Mr Ws claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr W, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman