DRN-4326183
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Tesla 
Financial Services Limited trading as Tesla Financial Services was of an unsatisfactory 
quality.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr E was supplied with a new car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Tesla. He paid an advance payment of £10,100 and the agreement was for £76,330 
over 49 months; with 48 monthly payments of £1,149.94 and a final payment of £31,979.10.
Mr E had some minor issues with the car relating to the charging system, and some 
cosmetic issues. But, from October 2020 onwards, he complained about a grinding noise. 
However, he was told this was because he was braking and steering at the same time. 
The car broke down in January 2022 due to an issue with the suspension. Mr E asked to 
reject the car, but Tesla insisted on a repair, which was completed in February 2023. But 
they offered Mr E £500 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. Mr E wasnt 
happy with whatd happened, and he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the car was faulty and it wasnt sufficiently durable when it was 
supplied to Mr E. And this made it of an unsatisfactory quality. But taking into consideration 
the repair to the car, and Mr E being provided with a courtesy car and free charging while the 
repairs were taking place, the investigator said that Tesla should refund Mr E 5% of the 
payments he was making before the car was repaired, as well as paying the £500 
compensation theyd offered.
Tesla asked if the award could be applied against the arrears on Mr Es account, but Mr E 
didnt agree to this. And he thought the offer made [by the investigator] is not acceptable.
Mr E also didnt agree that repair was a reasonable option in the circumstances and said that 
he shouldve been offered a replacement car instead. He explained that, in the late 1990s / 
early 2000s, hed been offered a replacement car by a manufacturer when the car he was 
supplied with was faulty. And he thought Tesla should be able to do this. So, hes asked for 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
Mr E also said that he was experiencing further problems with the car, but that he hadnt 
made Tesla aware of these yet. The investigator explained that Tesla need to have the 
opportunity to resolve these new issues before we can become involved. So, these 
additional issues werent something we were able to consider as part of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr E was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Tesla 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Tesla can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr E to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr E took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Tesla to put this right.
Based on the evidence Ive seen its not disputed there was a problem with the car. Not only 
did Mr E have some initial cosmetic issues and a problem with the charger that was 
resolved, there was also an issue with a grinding noise from the front of the car. And hes 
supplied a video which shows this noise when he was turning the steering wheel at low 
speed. As a result of this, Mr E wasnt confident in the safety of the car when he drove it.
The car broke down in early 2022 when there was a failure in the suspension. This may or 
may not have been related to the grinding noise Mr E was complaining of, but I dont think 
this is relevant. I dont think that anyone would reasonably expect a new car to fail in such a 
way after around 18-months, so Im satisfied the car wasnt sufficiently durable, and this 
makes it of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr E has said that he shouldve been given the opportunity to replace the car once it had 
broken down. And this is what happened when he had problems with a car he owned some 
20-years earlier. However, the CRA came into effect on 1 October 2015, and this allows 
Tesla the chance of repair before any rejection or replacement. As such, I dont think the 
solutions offered to Mr E by another company before the CRA came into effect means that 
Tesla have done anything wrong by not immediately offering replacement under the CRA.
Tesla repaired the car, and I havent seen anything to show me that these repairs have 
failed. While Mr E has now said there are further issues with the car, he hasnt raised these 
with Tesla. And I havent seen anything to show me these issues either related to the failure 
of the repair Tesla carried out, or that the issues were present or developing when the car 
was supplied to Mr E. As such, Im satisfied that Tesla acted reasonably by repairing the car. 
And I wont be asking them to now offer Mr E the right to either replace or reject the car.
However, this doesnt mean that Tesla dont still need to do something to put things right.Putting things right
Mr E has been able to use the car while its been in his possession. And while it was being 
repaired, he was also provided with a courtesy car to keep him mobile. Because of this, I 
think its only fair that he pays for this usage. 
However, given the issues with the car, especially the grinding noise, Im also satisfied that 
Mr Es usage and enjoyment of the car has been impaired. Because of this, I also think its 
fair that Tesla refund some of the payments Mr E made. And I think 5% of the payments 
made before the repair fairly reflects the impaired use caused by the car not being of a 
satisfactory quality.
As this refund relates to payments Mr E made, Tesla can apply this against any outstanding 
payments on Mr Es account.
Its clear that Mr E has been inconvenienced by whats happened  he was concerned about 
being able to drive the car safely before it was repaired, and he was without the car he was 
supplied with for around a year while it was being repaired, during which time he was 
supplied with a number of courtesy cars which had a different spec and/or were older with a 
higher mileage. So, I think Tesla should compensate him for this. Tesla have offered £500, 
which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I see 
no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision.
However, as this payment is to compensate Mr E for the trouble and inconvenience he 
suffered, and isnt related to the payments, then Tesla cannot apply this against any 
outstanding payments on Mr Es account, unless Mr E agrees for them to do so.
Therefore, Tesla should:
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Es credit file;
refund 5% of the payments Mr E made between being supplied with the car and 
when it was repaired and returned to him in February 2023;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr E made 
the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr E an additional £500 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesla to take off tax from this interest. Tesla must give Mr 
E a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Es complaint about Tesla Financial Services Limited 
trading as Tesla Financial Services. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman