DRN-3292986
The complaint
Mr E initially complained about Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) because 
he was unhappy his loan application was declined in November 2020. Mr E also raised other 
concerns around how his data was handled and how Cashfloat had treated him. 
Mr E also complained that Cashfloat had been irresponsible in providing him with previous 
loans and he says he became reliant on this lending. 
What happened
Mr E was approved for six loans between February 2018 and March 2020. Ive included 
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)largest 
monthly 
repayment
1 £500.00 16/02/2018 26/06/2018 4 £211.80
2 £200.00 11/10/2018 26/10/2018 1 £224.00
3 £500.00 10/11/2018 25/03/2019 4 £216.78
4 £700.00 31/03/2019 25/07/2019 4 £273.44
5 £700.00 20/09/2019 24/01/2020 4 £291.07
6 £400.00 21/03/2020 30/04/2020 3 £200.78
Mr E applied for, and was then declined for a loan in November 2020, and this is when
Mr E raised his complaint about Cashfloats decision not to lend to him. As part of this 
complaint, Mr E was also unhappy with the following  which is taken from one of Mr Es 
emails: 
1 .Inconsistency of Underwriting
2. Prior lending causing me financial hardship and pressuring repayments.
3. Breach of loan Contract entered into on Saturday then not honoured despite 
acceptance.
4. Accessing my bank account.
5. Defamation
6. Breach of Equalitues (sic) Act 2010
7. Ignoring DMHEF
8. Refusing to provide SAR in print.
9. CEO failing to acknowledge any of my correspondence despite repeated requests 
to.
10. Refusing to follow FCA rules on TCF.
The adjudicator reviewed Mr Es complaint, and the assessment was split into two parts. In 
the first part he dealt with the complaint about unaffordable lending. 
He concluded that loans 1  4 should not be upheld but loans 5 and 6 should be. The 
adjudicator explained that by loan 5, Cashfloat had evidence to show that Mr E was having 
problems managing his money. 
The adjudicator used the information Cashfloat gathered when it declined the November 
2020 loan, to show that in the period of time leading up to loan 5 being granted two County 
Court Judgements (CCJ) were recorded on Mr Es credit file as well as one other account 
being recorded as being in default. So, the adjudicator thought that Mr E would likely have 
problems repaying these loans. 
The adjudicator then addressed Mr Es concerns around the declined loans applications in 
November 2020. He provided a detailed timeline of what happened from the time that Mr E 
applied for the loan and he covered off what evidence both Mr E and Cashfloat had 
provided. He also covered off each of Mr Es concerns (listed 1  10 above)  both parties 
have seen these, so I dont intend to repeat the response to each point here. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint about the declined loan application. He said, 
that Mr E may have expected the loan to have been approved, given his recent history, and 
there wouldve been a number of factors that led to the loan being declined. He accepted 
that the process couldve been clearer about what was happening with the loan application, 
however he concluded that this was all done fairly quickly. Overall, he couldnt say it was 
wrong of Cashfloat to decline the loan.   
Mr E confirmed receipt of the assessment and he didnt provide any further comments. It is 
therefore reasonable to say that Mr E agreed with the findings that the adjudicator had 
reached.    
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 5 - 6. In summary, it 
said:
Mr E had a higher than average salary which left him with a sufficient amount of 
disposable income to be able to afford the repayments he was committed to making;
for the sixth loan, further checks were carried out and Cashfloat asked to see a copy 
of his wage slip;
there were breaks between some of the loans, and his final loan was £300 smaller 
than the fifth loan and
given Mr E only borrowed over a short period of time and he had an above average 
income there seemed little chance that these loans would cause harm. 
The adjudicator went back to Cashfloat to explain why its comments hadnt changed his 
mind. He reiterated, that in the months leading up to loan five, two CCJs totalling nearly 
£7,000 had been recorded on his credit file and there was also a recent default. And while a 
wage slip may have been taken, that wouldnt have given Cashfloat a full picture of 
Mr Es expenditure. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr E could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Es 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr E. These factors include:
Mr E having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr E having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr E coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr E.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr E was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Es complaint.
Mr E doesnt appear to disagree with the adjudicators findings that Cashfloat wasnt wrong 
to lend loans 1 - 4. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I 
need to make a decision about it. But, for completeness, I dont disagree with the findings 
that the adjudicator reached in relation to these loans. 
Loans 5 and 6
When loan five was approved, Cashfloat asked Mr E about his income and expenditure, he 
declared he had an income of £5,000 and monthly outgoings of £2,519. So, it may have 
been reasonable for Cashfloat to have believed, based on this information that he wouldve 
been able to afford the monthly commitment for this loan of around £292. 
Cashfloat has told us that each loan application goes through various stages of checking, 
the final stage appears to include using credit reference agencies to check the information 
Mr E had provided about his credit commitments. But, Cashfloat also says it;  also carry out a comprehensive credit check, to see if there are any negative 
markers such as recent defaults or IVAs/CCJS.
I think it is fair to say, that Cashfloat wouldve had a fairly good idea of Mr Es outgoings and 
what information wouldve been contained within the credit report. Cashfloat has told us it 
doesnt have a copy of the credit report results it received when this loan was approved. 
But, Cashfloat has given to the Financial Ombudsman a copy of the report that was 
generated when Mr E made an unsuccessful application for credit in November 2020. And 
this report, that was generated in November wouldve contained information that wouldve 
likely been visible to it at the time of this loan application in September 2019 (loan five). 
Looking at the November 2020 report there was some concerning information, Cashfloat 
ought to have been aware that Mr E had one CCJ reported within eight weeks of this loan 
being approved, and another one around six months before loan five was advanced. 
This is significant adverse data, and it shows that not only had Mr E had some recent 
difficulties that led to the accounts being defaulted, but those lenders then took the decision 
to pursue this debt through the courts. 
In additional two accounts termed as Finance House were significantly in arrears, and were 
likely to be defaulted in the coming months  which is what happened, and Ive gone into 
more detail about these account below, when discussing loan six. 
So, the credit searches wouldve given Cashfloat an overview of a customer who was in 
current financial difficulties and who was already struggling to maintain his credit 
commitments that he had with other creditors. So, I dont see how advancing further funds 
couldve been sustainable for Mr E. 
Loan six was approved in March 2020, and Mr Es credit file was still showing similar signs 
of financial distress. Since loan five, two further accounts termed as Finance House had 
defaulted at the end of September and October 2019. And the CCJs were still active, so I 
dont think, by March 2020 that Mr Es financial position had improved, indeed with the 
further defaults you can reasonably conclude that his financial position was deteriorating. 
While for the sixth loan Cashfloat may have looked at Mr Es wage-slip, which may have 
showed his income, it doesnt provide an overall view of his financial situation. The credit 
report Ive seen, is quite clear that Mr E had in the past, and was having now, quite 
significant financial difficulties. For the same reasons as loan five, I dont think this loan 
shouldve been granted either. 
Ive taken on board what Cashfloat says about there being gaps between some of the loans 
and I agree with it  and its quite right to point out that loan six was for a smaller sum 
compared to loan five, but this doesnt change my mind on the outcome of the complaint. 
The reason why the complaint about these loans is being upheld is because its likely, that 
the credit checks that Cashfloat says it does for each loan wouldve showed it that he was 
having problems managing his money. The gaps and decreasing amount, dont negate 
Cashfloats obligation to react to the information that it was likely provided with. 
And as the complaint hasnt been upheld due to the pattern of lending, then these gaps 
arent linked to the reasons why these two loans have been upheld. 
And for the same reasons as the gap, while Mr E may earn an above average income that 
doesnt mean these loans were affordable or could be repaid sustainably, this is especially true given what Cashfloat ought to have been aware of the CCJS and recently defaulted 
accounts. 
Ive outlined below, towards the end of this decision what Cashfloat will need to do in order 
to put things right for Mr E. 
Declined loan
I can see from the information and evidence provided by Mr E that he was unhappy and 
frustrated as to why his loan application was declined in November 2020. The adjudicator 
who reviewed the complaint didnt think, given what he had seen that he could uphold this 
part of Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E agreed with the adjudicators assessment, and no further comments were provided. So 
I would infer from this that this was happy with the assessment. Indeed, the adjudicator did 
answer all of Mr Es points about why he was unhappy with the conduct of Cashfloat. 
So it seems this element of Mr Es complaint is no longer dispute, what I would say and 
which is in line with what the adjudicator said, I can understand why Mr E may have felt the 
loan was initially approved, given hed signed an agreement. But this was followed up fairly 
quickly with an email letting him know the underwriters were going to be considering his 
application. 
Ultimately, Cashfloat has said that the loan didnt meet its lending criteria, and so it was 
under no obligation to lend to Mr E. I can see that Mr E has spent time and has put together 
a lot of information as to why he feels Cashfloat made a mistake when it declined the loan. 
But like the adjudicator, I dont think this is the case so Im not going to be upholding this part 
of Mr Es complaint. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr E from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr E may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr E in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr E loans 5 and 6 and Ive set out below what Im intending 
to ask Cashfloat to do to put things right. 
A. Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr E towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans.
B. Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr E which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr E originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Cashfloat should pay Mr E the total of A plus B.
D. Cashfloat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Es credit file 
in relation to loans 5 and 6.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
should give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Es complaint in part. 
Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat should put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman