DRN-3269402
The complaint
Mr R, a named driver under Mrs Rs car insurance policy, has complained about AXA 
insurance UK Plcs decision to record an incident he was involved in as a fault claim. For 
ease, Ill refer to Mr R as the complainant in my decision. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in a collision with a motorcyclist. He obtained details of witnesses to the 
incident and he reported it to Mrs Rs insurer, AXA. Dashcam footage of the incident was 
available from another vehicle and provided to AXA. 
The motorcyclist said Mr R was at fault for the incident. On reviewing the dashcam footage, 
AXA said it would settle the claim as a fault claim. Mr R didnt agree AXAs decision was fair. 
So he asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator explained that this service will not say that a decision about liability is 
unreasonable if the decision doesnt appear unsound or contrary to the evidence. However, 
having reviewed the footage, the investigator thought it showed the motorcyclist was 
travelling at a speed which meant there wasnt enough time to stop while Mr R was correctly 
carrying out his manoeuvre. And he found that the motorcyclists account of what happened 
didnt match what the footage showed. 
The investigator couldnt find that AXA had challenged the third party over liability. So he 
recommended Mr Rs complaint should be upheld and recommended AXA reconsider it 
liability stance on the claim. 
AXA didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision about liability in a reasonable way. This is a subtle but important 
distinction to make. 
Mrs Rs policy with AXA has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor 
insurance policies. This term says AXA can take over the defence and settlement of a claim 
in the insurers name. We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided the insurer can 
show it treated its customer fairly when applying it. 
The Highway Code section for motorcyclists says under section 88  Manoeuvring:
You should be aware of what is behind and to the sides before manoeuvring. Look 
behind you; use mirrors if they are fitted. When in traffic queues look out for 
pedestrians crossing between vehicles and vehicles emerging from junctions or 
changing lanes. Position yourself so that drivers in front can see you in their mirrors. 
Additionally, when filtering in slow-moving traffic, take care and keep your speed 
low.
I reviewed the dashcam footage from another car that was waiting as traffic lights ahead 
were red. There were two lanes of traffic. The dashcam car was waiting in the left lane 
behind a set of two Keep Clear boxes before the lights - to allow oncoming traffic from the 
right to come across and travel down side roads on the left. 
The footage shows the motorcyclist filter through from behind and to the right of the 
dashcam car  so in between the two lanes of traffic. Given there were two Keep Clear 
boxes ahead for traffic to turn across to roads on the left  and that the lights were red  it 
seems clear that the motorcyclist was travelling at speed for the road conditions around 
them and made no attempt to slow when approaching either of the Keep Clear boxes. The 
footage shows that Mr R had begun his manoeuvre ahead across the second Keep Clear 
box when the motorcyclist collided into his car.
The motorcyclists version of events is that they were filtering through traffic and got to the 
Keep Clear box when Mr R turned right across traffic and crashed into his bike. I dont think 
this is what the footage shows. Despite this, I cant see that AXA challenged the 
motorcyclists account with the third party insurer. AXAs view of the footage was that 
although there was a Keep Clear sign, the motorcyclist was allowed to filter through and Mr 
R was therefore at fault when carrying out his manoeuvre.
In response to the investigators findings, AXA referred the matter back to its liability team 
and their view remains the same. 
AXA says the police didnt take the matter further by pressing charges against the third 
party. But I dont think this means that Mr R was therefore at fault for the incident and that 
AXAs decision was reached in a reasonable way. And as the investigator explained, it isnt 
clear if the police had access to the dashcam footage. I think this evidence is persuasive. 
Before reaching my decision, I asked AXA to reconsider its decision in line with section 88 
for motorcyclists of the Highway Code with my thoughts as it hadnt yet closed the claim  
and to check it had viewed the footage. 
AXA responded to say that its liability team has reviewed the footage and its stance 
regarding liability remains the same. It said if Mr R hadnt turned across the third partys path 
(the incident) wouldnt have taken place. Having asked AXA to reconsider its decision I havent seen that AXA sought a legal opinion 
which we would expect it do in such circumstances where liability is contested. And its 
response doesnt provide any detail of its consideration. From its records, AXA seems to 
have contacted only one of three witnesses which Mr R provided details of.
So from what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that AXA has acted fairly by properly investigating 
the claim, which it says it has now settled as a fault claim. 
I think Mr Rs complaint by Mrs R should be upheld. I dont think AXA has reached its 
decision regarding liability in a reasonable way. So I dont think it should record the claim 
against Mr R as a fault claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to ensure 
the claim is  recorded on internal and external databases as a non-fault claim against Mr R. 
AXA should provide Mr R with a letter confirming the settlement of the claim as a non-fault 
claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman