DRN-4401936
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his van insurer Ageas Insurance Limited because he feels the 
settlement it offered when his van was found to be a total loss was too low.
What happened
Mr Bs van was damaged in an incident in April 2023. Ageas accepted the claim and felt the 
van was a total loss. It checked two motor valuation guides which returned figures of around 
£7,000. Mr B wasnt happy with that figure and Ageas reviewed on-line adverts. It said taking 
those into account it would view the market value of the vehicle as £7,500 and it would pay 
an additional £500 because the van had been lined, with it also comprising a roof rack. It 
said it would deduct the policy excess of £200 and would pay the remainder to Mr B as an 
interim settlement if he wanted it to, upon production of his V5 vehicle document. 
In July 2023 Mr B said hed like to take an interim payment. Ageas subsequently paid Mr B 
£7,800. Mr B felt it would cost in excess of £11,000 for him to replace his van. He took out a 
loan to obtain a replacement and he complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator consulted a third motor valuation guide. It returned a value for Mr Bs 
vehicle of £8,792. He noted adverts for similar vans to Mr Bs for sale which seemed to 
support that figure (with none suggesting Ageas market value of £7,500 had been fair). So 
he said Ageas should pay Mr B the difference between the two values (£1,292), plus 
interest. 
Ageas subsequently agreed. It then sent Mr B a payment of £992, noting this sum was paid 
net of an excess deduction of £200. Our Investigator pointed out to Ageas that Mr Bs 
excess had already been accounted for and that it didnt seem as though Ageas had paid 
the interest suggested in the view.
Mr B was pleased when he heard Ageas had agreed to the view. But disappointed when he 
saw the payment it had made. And he maintained that even that increased sum was not 
enough for him to replace his van. Pointing out that the policy wording defines market value 
as the cost for replacing the vehicle. He said the motor valuation guides were out of line with 
the current sale market.
The complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our Investigator that Ageas did not apply a fair and reasonable 
market value when seeking to settle this claim. But, with regret for any disappointment this 
causes Mr B, I also agree with our Investigator about what a fair and reasonable market 
value is  so I wont be requiring Ageas to pay more than that recommended in our view. 
Ageas used two motor valuation guides and considered some adverts of vehicles for sale. 
The two guide values were quite a bit below the comparable advert Ageas found. Although it 
hasnt presented that advert as part of its submissions. But our Investigator found there was 
a third motor guide able to return a valuation. So Ageas should have taken that guide into 
account along with any adverts found. 
The third motor guide returned the highest of all three valuations  £8,792. Our Investigator 
found a number of adverts for similar vans for sale. There were some distinct differences 
with some examples  such as having been adapted for wheelchair access. But none of the 
adverts showed vans for sale at £7,500. And the third motor guide presented examples 
along with its valuation of like vans which had actually been sold, supporting its valuation 
figure returned. So Im satisfied that Ageas, in using a base-line market value of £7,500, 
acted unfairly and unreasonably. It should be settling the claim taking into account a 
base-line market value of £8,792. A difference of £1,292.
I appreciate that Mr B presented an advert for a van for sale at a sum of over £13,000. Also 
that he sees that all the other adverts hes seen are for vans for sale at £11,000 or more. But 
there will always be asking prices that dont sit in line with the values returned by the motor 
guides. Sometimes some of the guides may not keep up with market conditions. But, given 
the detail Ive seen here, it does seem that there are similar vans to Mr Bs for sale at around 
the sum of the highest valuation returned by the third motor guide. So I am satisfied that 
requiring Ageas to use that valuation, as its base-line market value, is fair and reasonable.
Ive used the phrase base-line above because Ageas has accepted that Mr B had adapted 
his van, which would add value to it, in a way not accounted for by the guides. Ageas 
engineer felt that £500 should be paid for the adaptations and Ive seen nothing which 
makes me think thats unfair or unreasonable. So Ageas settlement for Mr Bs van, before 
any interest is added, will be £8,792, plus £500, less the £200 policy excess. 
When Ageas paid Mr B its interim settlement in July 2023, that was its base-line market 
value of £7,500, plus £500 but less the policy excess. Which means that both the £500 and 
the policy excess have already been accounted for by Ageas. The difference between the 
two base-line market values is £1,292. With Ageas recently having paid £992 to Mr B. Which 
means £300 is outstanding and will need to be paid. Ageas should also calculate what 
interest is due against the sum of £1,292. It should base interest on the loan rate Mr B has 
been paying, on a simple basis per year. It should apply interest from the 31 July 2023 until it 
recently paid £992, and then on the £300 still outstanding from the date £992 was paid until 
the final settlement is made. 
Im awarding interest from July 2023 only because Mr B had the option earlier to accept an 
interim settlement from Ageas. He didnt then ask to be paid on an interim basis until 
July 2023.
Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Mr B:
£300, where theres an additional claim payment of £1,292 found due under this 
complaint but £992 of that sum has already been paid.An amount equivalent to interest* applied on the sum of £1,292 from 31 July 2023 until 
£992 was paid, and then on the sum of £300 from the date £992 was paid until the £300 
is paid. 
 *Interest is at the rate of the loan taken by Mr B to replace his vehicle, on a simple per year 
basis and paid on the amounts specified and from/to the dates stated. HM Revenue & 
Customs may require Ageas to take off tax from this interest. If asked, it must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman