DRN-3043809
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that St Andrews Insurance Plc declined a claim they made on their
contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D hold a contents policy with St Andrews (the Policy) which was taken out via 
another business.
Mr and Mrs D went on holiday on 18 May 2016, and when they returned on 29 May 2016, 
they noticed their boiler wasnt working. After further enquiries into why their boiler wasnt 
working, they noticed that heating oil escaped had escaped from their above ground metal 
oil storage tank (OST). They made a claim to their buildings insurer for the damage caused 
to their own property by the oil spill, which was accepted.
However, in dealing with the claim for damage to Mr and Mrs Ds own property, their 
buildings insurer advised them that the oil may have also spread to their neighbours land 
and further into the local water supply. Their buildings insurer advised Mr and Mrs D theyd 
need to let the Environment Agency (EA) know of the spill  which they did. Their buildings 
insurer advised them to make a claim to their contents insurer, St Andrews, under the 
occupiers liability section of their policy for any damage caused by the oil contaminating 
anything other than their own property. On 2 June 2016, Mr and Mrs D made a claim to St 
Andrews.
At first, St Andrews advised there was no claim to consider. It was made aware on 10 June 
2016 by the company instructed by Mr and Mrs Ds buildings insurer to clean up their own 
property that the matter was urgent due to the proximity of the spill to a local drinking water 
extraction point. That company advised St Andrews that it didnt know the full extent of the 
damage, but said that if work wasnt carried out as soon as possible, then Mr and Mrs D may 
face a public liability issue. St Andrews said Mr and Mrs Ds policy didnt cover them for 
preventative works and the occupiers liability section of the Policy only insured Mr and 
Mrs D for any costs brought against them by a third party. And as no work had been carried 
out by any third party, there were no costs for them to consider.
On 14 June 2016, St Andrews were made aware by the loss adjuster representing Mr and 
Mrs Ds building insurer that the EA was requiring daily updates from them in relation to the 
spill and the clean-up due to the risk of contamination to the groundwater and local drinking 
supply. That firm advised that the EA required action to be taken as a matter of urgency. Mr 
and Mrs D thought St Andrews needed to help them, St Andrews disagreed, and 
discussions continued over a number of months before any work was carried out on Mr and 
Mrs Ds neighbours land.
On 16 September 2016, the EA issued an intention to serve notice to Mr and Mrs D bringing 
enforcement action against them, including criminal proceedings and requiring them to take 
remedial action. It said it had provided Dr and Mrs D advice and a sufficient period of time to 
carry out works voluntarily but that this hadnt been completed to the extent required to 
protect the environment. This letter explained that a statutory notice would be served on Mr 
and Mrs D as the responsible person requiring them to carry out specified works. This 
letter from the EA said notice could be avoided if Mr and Mrs D informed them of the prompt 
remedial action they were taking to protect the environment before 23 September 2016. Mr 
and Mrs D said to us that in view of the threat of criminal sanctions they had no option to 
arrange and pay for the clean-up. The clean-up was subsequently arranged, carried out, 
and paid for by Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D then claimed for the cost of the clean-up of their 
neighbours land - amounting to roughly £40,000 - from St Andrews. No notice was served 
by the EA.
St Andrews declined their claim in January 2017 and this led to a complaint to the 
ombudsman service being made in April 2017. As I explain in more detail below, the relevant 
section of the Policy only insured Mr and Mrs D against any legal liability for damages which 
result from an accident  and causing  accidental loss or damage to physical property 
In broad terms, St Andrews declined their original claim for the following reasons: (i) Mr and 
Mrs D would not have been legally liable to their neighbours (whether under the law of 
negligence or nuisance) for the oil escape because they had acted reasonably to ensure that 
such damage was not caused (i.e. Mr and Mrs D had the oil tank regularly inspected and 
maintained); (ii) as a matter of fact, Mr and Mrs Ds neighbour had not actually brought a 
claim for damages against them; and (iii) any costs which Mr and Mrs did incur were 
preventative in nature and/or incurred to comply with statutory requirements imposed by the 
EA.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept this and so brought their complaint to us. The ombudsman 
service investigated their complaint and another ombudsman issued a final decision (the 
First Decision) on 15 October 2018. In very brief summary, the First Decision effectively 
decided that, in the circumstances, the fact that Mr and Mrs Ds neighbour had not actually 
brought a claim for damages should not be a bar to St Andrews considering a claim by Mr 
and and Mrs D under the Policy, and so it required St Andrews to consider Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim as if the neighbour had brought a claim. However, the ombudsman said she had not 
considered and so was not making any findings as to whether Mr and Mrs were actually 
negligent as regards the oil escape.
Mr and Mrs D accepted that decision and so it became legally binding on St Andrews to 
carry out the direction set out above.
St Andrews then considered Mr and Mrs Ds claim as if it were brought by their neighbour 
but declined the claim again. St Andrews said that the policy term covered claims brought  
against Mr and Mrs D by a third party under the legal liabilities section of the Policy. St 
Andrews said that no third party had yet made a claim against Mr and Mrs D. It also said 
that even if Mr and Mrs Ds neighbour had brought a claim for damages against them, the 
neighbour would have needed to make allegations of negligence and explain why they 
considered that Mr and Mrs D were responsible for the damage to their property.
In this regard, although St Andrews acknowledged that Mr and Mrs D had an obligation to 
take reasonable steps to prevent causing damage to their neighbours property, it said that it 
had not been made aware of any evidence that the escape of heating oil was in any way Mr 
and Mrs Ds fault. And as Mr and Mrs D regularly maintained the OST and had a contract 
with a firm which inspected it regularly, St Andrews said there was no evidence to support 
an allegation that Mr and Mrs D were negligent or breached any duty of care they owed to 
their neighbours in that regard. St Andrews position was that the evidence showed that Mr 
and Mrs D took reasonable steps to ensure damage was not caused to their neighbours 
property and so would not be legally liable for any damages to their neighbours land even if 
they had brought a claim for damages against them.Mr and Mrs D disagreed and brought a new complaint to us. They said they didnt think they 
had to be shown to be negligent in order for the Policy to pay out. They said they were 
required by their neighbours and the EA to promptly clean up the damage. They said they 
did all they could to act responsibly and think if St Andrews decision is right  i.e. that it 
needed to be shown that they were negligent in order for the Policy to respond  then theyd 
have been better ignoring the oil spill completely until the EA or their neighbours brought 
legal action against them. Mr and Mrs D thought they acted properly throughout.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and recommended it be 
upheld. She thought the Policy covered Mr and Mrs D for any legal liability, not just 
negligence. She thought it likely Mr and Mrs D were legally liable for cleaning up the 
damaged land and so thought that St Andrews should pay the claim.
St Andrews disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It maintained the costs Mr 
and Mrs D were claiming for werent covered by the Policy. It said just because the Policy 
was in place, it didnt mean that Mr and Mrs D would be automatically covered in respect of 
all adverse events. It said for the Policy to provide cover, it would have to be found that Mr 
and Mrs D were negligent or liable to their neighbours in nuisance, which they were not. It 
also said that Mr and Mrs D had not used their land in a non-natural way by storing 
domestic heating oil in an OST in the way they did.
In June 2021 I issued a provisional decision. Ive set out the findings of that decision below. 
But in essence, I thought St Andrews decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ds claim was a fair 
decision in all the circumstances of the case. That decision said:
weve already considered much of this claim. This decision isnt going to reinvestigate or 
make a finding on anything the First Decision decided. My provisional decision covers a 
discrete point about whether I think St Andrews  having reconsidered Mr and Mrs Ds claim 
as if their neighbour had brought a claim for damages against them  acted fairly and 
reasonably in nevertheless declining Mr and Mrs Ds claim again.
Mr and Mrs Ds policy with St Andrews says that as well as providing cover for the contents 
of their home, it also provides cover their breach of certain legal responsibilities they may 
have as an occupier of the land. The occupiers and public liability cover, the Policy sets out 
in detail what Mr and Mrs D are covered for under this section. Under whats covered, the 
Policy says;
You (or your personal representatives in the event of your death) and any member 
of your family are insured against any legal liability for:
Damages which result from an accident occurring during the insurance period and 
causing:
Accidental bodily injury (including death, disease or illness) to anyone not in your 
family or domestic staff.
Accidental loss or damage to physical property other than the property you or any 
member of your family own or are looking after.
Generally speaking, third party liability clauses such as this are designed to provide cover for 
an insured in circumstances where: (i) there has been damage to a third partys property due 
to an accident; (ii) the third party has brought a legal claim for damages against the insured; 
(iii) and the insureds legal liability to pay damages has been established by court judgment. As explained above, no third party (in particular, Mr and Mrs Ds neighbours) in fact made a 
claim against Mr and Mrs D for damages). However, the First Decision required St Andrews 
to consider Mr and Mrs Ds claim as if their neighbours had made such a claim.
Having done that, St Andrews declined the claim again because it concluded (in summary) 
that Mr and Mrs D were neither negligent in causing the oil spill, nor legally liable for causing 
or maintaining a nuisance. Accordingly, even if their neighbours had brought a claim for 
damages against Mr and Mrs D (which they did not in fact do), St Andrews view was that 
this claim would not have succeeded. Accordingly, St Andrews concluded that the policy 
term above did not cover the costs Mr and Mrs D were claiming for.
I will now consider whether or not St Andrews acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr 
and Mrs Ds claim under the Policy for the reasons which I have summarised above. What is 
not in dispute is that Mr and Mrs D had an above ground metal OST. That OST failed and 
the oil stored inside leaked out. This leak spread onto their neighbours land. The
EA required works to be carried out to clean up that land. The EA let Mr and Mrs D know of 
its intention to serve them a notice bringing enforcement action, including criminal   
proceedings and requiring them to take remedial action on 16 September 2016. Prior to that, 
although discussions had been taken place on what work needed to be carried out and Mr 
and Mrs D have said they were under immediate pressure from the EA to carry out the work, 
no work was undertaken until after this intention to serve notice was sent. After receiving the 
intention to serve notice, Mr and Mrs D arranged and paid for the clean-up of their 
neighbours land. Its worth noting that theres no evidence of the neighbours lodging any 
legal proceedings against Mr and Mrs D.
What the policy term covers
Mr and Mrs Ds policy insures them for any legal liability for damages which result from an 
accident  causing  accidental loss or damage to physical property of a third party. As 
already noted above, what clauses like this are ordinarily intended to cover are legal claims 
for damages brought by third parties against the insured  for example, a claim against the 
insured for damages because of the insureds negligence or in nuisance which caused 
accidental loss or damage to a third partys property.
In the context of damage to property such as the type which occurred here  that is, physical 
damage to land caused by an escape of oil  I am mindful that there is also an 
environmental regulatory angle in that regulations designed to protect the environment may 
very well impose a legal requirement on individuals (including the owners/occupiers of the 
land from which the contaminant originated, or even the owners/occupiers of neighbouring 
land to which the contaminant has spread) to take remedial action to stop, contain or clean-
up the contaminant. Such regulatory obligations may arise regardless of whether that 
individual is at fault for what happened (in the sense of whether they would otherwise be 
found legally liable to pay damages to any other person because of their negligence or 
because they caused or maintained a nuisance).
In this case, the EA were involved very soon after the spill was discovered. The EA became 
involved after the company Mr and Mrs Ds buildings insurer instructed to clean up their land 
let them know of the spill. Ive not seen all the correspondence between the EA and Mr and 
Mrs D. There is evidence of the EA becoming involved, and both St Andrews and Mr and 
Mrs D being aware of this involvement, as early as 10 June 2016.
Mr and Mrs D said they were under immediate pressure from the EA to carry out the clean-
up of the spill. And theres evidence pointing to the EA requiring daily updates as early as 14 
June 2016. The EA then wrote to Mr and Mrs D on 16 September 2016 as the required 
works hadnt been carried out. It said that Mr and Mrs D had been given advice and a sufficient period of time to carry out works voluntarily but that this hadnt been completed to 
the extent required to protect the environment. The EA said Mr and Mrs D would be served 
a legal notice on 23 September 2016, unless they let it know prompt remedial action they 
were taking to protect the environment before that date. Work then commenced, Mr and 
Mrs D let the EA know of this, and no notice was served.
While I mention this for the sake of completeness, Im mindful that in determining whether Mr 
and Mrs D had any legal liability for damages towards their neighbour within the terms of 
the Policy, the imposition (or threatened imposition) of a regulatory requirement of the kind 
identified above is not determinative of the question of whether or not Mr and Mrs D would 
have been found legally liable to pay damages to their neighbour had he brought a claim 
against them. So I now turn to consider if St Andrews fairly and reasonably declined their 
claim based on its conclusion that Mr and Mrs D did not have any legal liability for damages 
to their neighbour in the circumstances of this case.
As I have summarised above, St Andrews position is that Mr and Mrs D are not legally liable 
to pay damages to their neighbour because they were neither negligent in causing the oil 
spill nor liable in nuisance for having created it or allowing it to continue once they 
discovered it. Generally speaking, I accept that in order for Mr and Mrs D to have become 
legally liable to pay damages to their neighbour within the meaning of the Policy, it would 
have to be shown that Mr and Mrs D:
I. were either negligent in causing the spill or allowing the oil to escape, in the sense
that they failed to take reasonable care in the circumstances to prevent the spill from
occurring in the first place; and/or
II. failed to take further action to prevent continuing migration of the oil to their
neighbours land once they discovered, or ought reasonably to have discovered the
spill had occurred.
St Andrews finding that Mr and Mrs D were not at fault for the original spill
The OST was discovered empty and there was a failing along the seam at the back where 
the oil is believed to have escaped from. The exact cause of the leak isnt clearly determined 
but the report carried out by Mr and Mrs Ds building insurer says the tank was in a poor 
condition with rusting sides and base and that the failure of the tank is what led to the oil 
escaping.
Mr and Mrs D have explained the tank was already installed and wasnt new when they 
moved into the property nearly 35 years before the spill. They said they replaced their boiler 
around 12 years ago but didnt replace the OST at the time. Mr and Mrs D have said the 
typical expected lifespan of above ground metal OSTs is thought to be around 20 years. Ive 
also considered the location of the tank and its noted that this was within a metre of Mr and 
Mrs Ds neighbours land. Looking at the picture in the initial report carried out after the spill, 
the tank doesnt look easily accessible on all sides, and it is visibly rusting.
St Andrews has said it doesnt think Mr and Mrs D have been negligent because they 
employed a third-party company to inspect the tank only a month prior to the spill.
Had Mr and Mrs D not employed a professional to regularly inspect the tank, I think it would 
have been arguable that they had failed to take reasonable steps to keep the tank in good 
repair such that oil did not leak out from it, with the result that they could have been liable for 
damages caused by the spill in either negligence or because they wrongly caused or 
permitted a nuisance to occur. But that is not the case here  they did employ a relevant 
professional to inspect the tank every year as part of a wider inspection and service of the boiler and had never noted an issue with it. I think employing a professional to inspect the 
tank satisfies Mr and Mrs Ds duty of care to take reasonable care to store the oil safely.
Ive also seen the report from the visit carried out a month prior to the leak. That report 
doesnt indicate the tank needed repairing or that any other maintenance work was required 
on it. I appreciate Mr and Mrs D have said the tank inspection was only a visible one, and 
that it was only visible from two sides, and the failure occurred on one of the sides that 
wasnt easily seen. The report isnt very detailed. But it contains a list of a number of things 
that are to be inspected during each visit. Theres a key at the top of this list indicating what 
to mark next to each box. This coding explains a tick should be used if what is being 
inspected is satisfactory; a U should be used if unsatisfactory; NC for not checked; P for 
part fitted; NA for not applicable and NF for not found. The second item on the list is Oil 
Tank Condition. And the box next to this is clearly marked with a tick, indicating that it was 
checked, and that it was judged to be in a satisfactory condition.
I think in light of all the circumstances, St Andrews fairly and reasonably found that it was 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs D would have been found legally liable for causing the original spill 
or wrongfully permitting it to happen. They had a duty to exercise reasonable care in their 
storage of the oil. And although that OST looked to be visibly in a poor state of repair and not 
easily accessible, Mr and Mrs D exercised that duty of care by employing a relevant 
professional  with knowledge greater than their own, to inspect the tank and advise them if 
any repair or maintenance work was required on the OST. An inspection was carried out 
shortly before Mr and Mrs D went on holiday, and as mentioned above, it indicates the tank 
was inspected, and was deemed to be in a satisfactory condition with no work needing to be 
carried out. Theres no indication that Mr and Mrs D thought they needed to repair or replace 
the OST themselves, or that they thought the inspection wasnt sufficient at the time. So I 
think its reasonable that they relied on its findings, and I think St Andrews fairly and 
reasonably concluded that its unlikely theyd be found to be at fault for the spill.
Im also not persuaded, based on the evidence, that Mr and Mrs D had failed to take steps to 
prevent further migration of oil from their own property to their neighbours land once they 
returned from holiday and realised that the spill had occurred. In fact, they had taken steps 
to clean up their own land as soon as they realised what had happened, thereby preventing 
any continuing migration of the escaped oil from their land to their neighbours land.
In particular, they returned from holiday on 29 May 2016 and swiftly let their buildings insurer 
know of the accident. A report was instructed on 31 May 2016 and the EA were made aware 
shortly after. By 2 June 2016, Mr and Mrs D had let St Andrews know of the potential to 
claim as the oil may have contaminated their neighbours land, and its clear that from at 
least 10 June 2016 that the oil had indeed contaminated their neighbours land. Immediate 
emergency excavation work was carried out on Mr and Mrs Ds property and began on 
2 June 2016, with further work being carried out on their property throughout June 2016. The 
final work carried out on Mr and Mrs Ds land was authorised by their buildings insurer on 
30 August 2016.
Moreover, when Mr and Mrs D returned from their holiday, the tank was empty, meaning
there was no further escape from the OST after this date. As noted above, Mr and Mrs D 
contacted their buildings insurer who quickly carried out a clean-up operation on Mr and 
Mrs Ds own land.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs Ds did undertake clean-up works on their neighbours property after 
the EA let Mr and Mrs D know of its intent to serve notice of enforcement in September 
2016. However, as I already mentioned above, coming under (and complying with) a 
regulatory obligation of this nature does not necessarily mean that Mr and Mrs D would have also been found to have incurred a legal liability to pay damages to their neighbour within the 
meaning of the policy term.
Overall, I think that in light of all the circumstances as set out above, Mr and Mrs D took 
reasonable steps to stop any continuing migration of the escaped oil from their land to their 
neighbours land once they discovered the spill had occurred. 
St Andrews decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ds claim
Accordingly, having considered this matter carefully (and on the basis of the evidence I have 
seen), I consider that St Andrews acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim. This is because St Andrews fairly and reasonably concluded that, in the 
circumstances of this case, even if Mr and Mrs Ds neighbours had brought a claim for 
damages against them (which in the event they did not do), they would have been unlikely to 
show that Mr and Mrs D were negligent in causing the spill, or had created a nuisance 
and/or allowed a nuisance to continue once they discovered the spill had occurred. In other 
words, I think that St Andrews fairly and reasonably found that Mr and Mrs D would not have 
been legally liable to pay damages to their neighbours for any damage caused to their
property because of the spill.
I therefore consider that St Andrews acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim under the Policy for reimbursement of the clean-up costs they incurred.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept this decision and provided further evidence. They provided a 
report carried out by the same company that inspected the tank a month prior to the spill  
but this report was dated 10 February 2015.
This report was in the same format as the report provided a month before the spill. But in this 
report, the box next to Oil Tank Condition was marked as U  meaning it was in an 
unsatisfactory condition. And unlike the report carried out a month before the spill, this report 
made further comment. It said: Tank badly rusted and appears to be in early signs of 
leaking. Resealed all joints from tank to filter. Gate valve is leaking. Unable to rectify with oil 
in tank. Customer made aware. 
Mr and Mrs D said they couldnt explain why this warning wasnt acted upon. They thought 
this new evidence showed clear grounds of negligence on their behalf. They thought this 
showed that if their neighbour brought a claim for damages against them on grounds of 
negligence, that it likely would have succeeded. They think this means St Andrews should 
pay their claim.
As this was new evidence, it was put to St Andrews for its comments.
St Andrews didnt think this meant it needed to pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim. It said the most 
recent report  the one carried out a month before the spill  clearly marked the OST as 
being in a satisfactory condition. And it said the timeline of events clearly showed that there 
was no evidence of a leak or oil fumes in the vicinity of the tank in the time between that 
inspection and the spill. It says had a claim for negligence been presented to it, it would have 
rejected it on these grounds.
Reasonable care
I wrote to both Mr and Mrs D and St Andrews on 16 August 2021 letting them know my 
latest thoughts on this complaint. I said that considering the new evidence Mr and Mrs D had 
supplied, I understood why they thought theyd likely be found to be negligent by a court had 
their neighbours brought a claim against them for damages caused by the oil spill. But I explained that whether a court would have found them negligent in their storage of the oil, 
had a claim for damages been brought against them by their neighbours, was not my only 
consideration.
I explained that ultimately, the underlying agreement between Mr and Mrs D was the 
insurance policy. And I explained that I also needed to determine what, in my opinion, would 
be a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
I went on to explain that the Policy contained a clause which required Mr and Mrs D to take 
every reasonable precaution to prevent or minimise any loss, damage, accident or injury. I 
explained that such a clause  often referred to as a reasonable care clause  was common 
within most insurance policies and one wed consider fair.
I explained that the reasonable care clause applied to all sections of the Policy, including the 
occupiers liability section. I said that this section provided cover for a breach of certain 
liabilities, of which negligence was one. And I explained I was aware that by its very nature, 
negligence required a certain lack of reasonable care.
I explained that I thought the reasonable care clause was relevant in this complaint because 
while a court may look at the core aspects of a negligence claim brought by Mr and Mrs Ds 
neighbours in respect of i) duty of care owed; ii) whether that duty was breached; iii) did that 
breach cause damage; iv) was that damage foreseeable, that is separate and distinct from 
the Policy coverage. 
Ultimately, insurance is in place to cover policyholders for the unknown  for things they 
hope will never happen but might. The events or perils a policy covers are set out within the 
terms and conditions of the policy. The reasonable care clause is intended to make sure that 
policyholders do all they reasonably can to prevent loss, damage and injury claims from 
being made. Put simply, the reasonable care clause is intended to make sure that 
policyholders dont deliberately or recklessly court or cause the events they are insured 
against.
I said that based on the new evidence (the report dated 10 February 2015 ) I was minded to 
determine that Mr and Mrs Ds actions amounted to recklessness  meaning I didnt think St 
Andrews needed to pay their claim as the reasonable care clause had been breached.
I explained in coming to that determination Id considered the Court of Appeal judgment in 
the case of Sofi v Prudential Assurance Co Ltd [1993] 2 Lloyds Rep.559. The key part of 
this judgment was that the insured, where he does recognise a danger should not 
deliberately court it by taking measures which he himself knows are inadequate to avert it.
I said that I thought the new evidence and Mr and Mrs Ds comments on why no action was 
taken after receiving this report showed they were aware the condition of the OST was 
unsatisfactory; that it was in the early stages of leaking such that joints were resealed; it was 
actively leaking at the gate valve and this couldnt be rectified with oil in the tank and so 
remained in a leaking state. Mr and Mrs D also said they did nothing to repair or replace it 
or the other defective part and said they failed to act on the warning given and cannot 
explain why it wasnt acted upon. I thought this showed they were aware of a danger and 
took inadequate action to avoid it. In simple terms, they took no action despite knowing the 
OSTs poor condition and that there was an active leak.
In light of all the circumstances of the complaint, I thought that while a court may have found 
Mr and Mrs D to have been negligent in their storage of the oil, I still didnt think St Andrews 
needed to pay their claim. This was because the policy required Mr and Mrs D to take every 
reasonable precaution to prevent any loss or damage. And based on the new evidence and comments, Mr and Mrs D were aware the tank was in the early stages of leaking but took no 
steps to avert it. I thought this went beyond mere negligence and thought it meant theyd 
acted recklessly, which was in breach of the reasonable care clause in the Policy.
Therefore, I didnt think St Andrews needed to pay their claim.
St Andrews made no further comment.
Mr and Mrs D said they didnt think the 10 February 2015 report showed they were reckless. 
They said the report would have been accompanied by a conversation with the person who 
carried it out. And they said they dont recall being told of a serious problem. Theyve said 
that early stages of leaking doesnt clearly give a sense of urgency or clearly outline what 
could and indeed did happen - that the tank would split and discharge its contents.
Mr and Mrs D said the leak with the gate valve and flexi line were raised but that these were 
at the complete opposite side of the tank (the top) to where the leak occurred (the bottom). 
Theyve said they were completely unaware of any risk of the tank failing completely. 
Theyve said prior to the tank leaking there was no sign of a problem in respect of a smell of 
leaking oil. And theyve pointed to three further visits  two visits to top up the oil and the 
report carried out in 2016. Theyve said none of these alerted them to a risk of the tank 
failing completely.
Mr and Mrs D have also questioned again why the issue of a potential nuisance claim isnt 
being considered more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will not be the answer Mr and Mrs D 
were hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
As set out in my provisional decision, under the occupiers liability section, the Policy sets 
out what Mr And Mrs D are insured for. The Policy says:
You (or your personal representatives in the event of your death) and any member 
of your family are insured against any legal liability for:
Damages which result from an accident occurring during the insurance period and 
causing:
Accidental bodily injury (including death, disease or illness) to anyone not in your 
family or domestic staff.
In my provisional decision I explained that this section of the policy usually engages after a 
third party makes a claim for damages against the policyholder. Usually a court would decide 
whether or not the policyholder (Mr and Mrs D) had breached a legal responsibility toward 
the claimant (Mr and Mrs Ds neighbours). If a court found that Mr and Mrs D had breached 
a legal responsibility, then the court would consider awarding damages to the claimant. Its 
those damages that the Policy provides cover for  subject to the general conditions and 
exceptions of the Policy.
Here, that didnt happen. Mr and Mrs Ds neighbour didnt make a claim for damages against 
Mr and Mrs D. And as such there was no allegation of a breach of any legal duty.My provisional decision explained that wed previously issued a decision on this case, and 
that my understanding of that decision was Mr and Mrs Ds claim shouldnt be declined 
simply because their neighbours never brought a claim for damages against them. In effect, I 
thought that previous decision required St Andrews to treat Mr and Mrs Ds claim as if it 
were brought as a claim for damages brought by their neighbours.
But as set out above, no claim was made, so no allegation of any breach a legal 
responsibility was made either. I explained in my previous decision when considering Mr and 
Mrs Ds claim as if it were brought as a claim for damages by their neighbours, Id have to 
determine on what grounds that claim would likely be brought against them. In other words, I 
need to consider what allegation the third party would make. In reality I thought this left two 
feasible options, i) an allegation that Mr and Mrs D were negligent, or: ii) an allegation Mr 
and Mrs D caused nuisance.
Mr and Mrs D have said their neighbour may have claimed damages against them on the 
basis that theyd caused nuisance and they dont think this has been considered. St 
Andrews said that in order to have been found to have caused a nuisance, Mr and Mrs D 
would have had to have been found to be using their land in an unnatural way. And they 
thought the storage of the heating oil on their land wouldnt be considered an unnatural use. 
This, I think is reasonable. And Ive not seen anything from Mr or Mrs D which persuades me 
to think anything differently. Its true, their neighbours may well have brought a claim for 
damages against them on the grounds of nuisance, but Id need to be first persuaded that 
their neighbours would have brought a nuisance claim for damages against Mr and Mrs D. 
And then Id need to be persuaded that a claim for damages brought on the grounds of 
nuisance would likely succeed. And Im not persuaded thats the case here. This leaves the 
most likely claim against Mr and Mrs D brought by their neighbours for damages would be 
on grounds of negligence.
As set out in the background of this complaint, based on all the evidence available, I think a 
court may well have found Mr and Mrs D to have been negligent in their storage of the oil in 
the OST. This is because they were given clear indication that the OST was in an 
unsatisfactory condition and leaking prior to the spill but took no action to rectify the tank.
But I think that same evidence, along with Mr and Mrs Ds comments that they did nothing 
to repair or replace it or the other defective part and failed to act on the warning given and 
cannot explain why it wasnt acted upon amounted to recklessness.
And as set out above, as well as considering what a court may have found had Mr and 
Mrs Ds neighbours brought a claim against them, I needed to consider whether or not the 
Policy needed to respond. The policy says Mr and Mrs D need to take every reasonable 
precaution to prevent or minimise any loss, damage, accident or injury. And I didnt think 
theyd done that.
Mr and Mrs D have pointed out that in order for St Andrews to decline their claim on the 
basis theyd failed to take reasonable care, St Andrews would need to show that Mr and 
Mrs D were aware of the risk and took insufficient action to avert it. And this is in line with the 
Sofi case mentioned earlier. Mr and Mrs D say they werent aware of the risk of the OST 
failing completely. Theyve said no sense of urgency was presented to them. And that whilst 
they were aware of the problem with the fuel filler gauge and the gate valve, these two parts 
were at the top of the tank.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ds points, but I still think they failed to take reasonable care and 
acted recklessly. The key here is that the report of 2015 clearly states the OST is in an 
unsatisfactory condition. And it clearly states that the tank is in the early stages of leaking. That same report also indicated Mr and Mrs D were made aware of this reports contents as 
theyve signed it. I think this shows Mr and Mrs D were ultimately made aware the tank was 
in an unsatisfactory condition and actively leaking. The wording early stages I think clearly 
indicates too that without any action the condition of the tank was going to get worse over 
time. And I think the ultimate risk of the tank leaking was pointed out and made clear to Mr 
and Mrs D. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs D were aware of the risk  or danger  of their OST 
leaking if no further action was taken, as it was already in the early stages of doing so.
Mr and Mrs D pointed out, they took no remedial action as a result of that warning. And I 
think this shows further that they were aware of a danger. But this crucially shows that no 
action was taken. So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D were aware of the danger and they 
took no steps to avert it, which was clearly inadequate.
Therefore, I think Mr and Mrs D breached the policy condition requiring them to take every 
reasonable precaution to prevent or minimise any loss, damage, accident or injury. And 
therefore, while a court may well have found them to be negligent in their storage of the oil 
and judged that they needed to pay damages to their neighbour, Im not satisfied Mr and Mrs 
Ds policy with St Andrews needs to cover those costs.
In all the circumstances, I think the fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint is to not 
require St Andrews to pay it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman