DRN-1931927
The complaint
 Mr C complains that Raymond James Investment Services Ltd (RJIS) gave him unsuitable 
advice to invest in an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) causing him financial loss.
What happened
 Mr C met with RJIS in March 2013, to discuss investments which primarily would offer him 
income tax relief. He owned his own business, a property abroad, a property in the UK as 
well as savings. RJIS recommended investing £100,000 in an unregulated EIS as it would 
secure him income tax relief. He says, he was told the investment would mature in two to 
three years, but this didnt happen. Instead, he received a notification from HM Revenue and 
Customs that the EIS status had been revoked and this meant he was no longer able to 
claim the tax relief. 
Mr C says, he was not advised as to the risks involved in this type of investment and that no 
due diligence was done before the recommendation to invest in this EIS. He says, the 
income tax relief being withdrawn resulted in him having to pay a tax bill to HMRC and an 
additional late payment fee of £5000, so he complained to RJIS in December 2018.
RJIS say extensive due diligence was done prior to giving Mr C advice to invest in this EIS. 
They say he was an experienced person with disposable income and a detailed risk profile 
was completed. They say the advice to invest in this EIS was suitable, the risks were 
explained to him and the literature he was given clearly detailed the risks. In addition, he 
also signed a declaration saying he understood the risks and agreed to proceed. 
Our investigator thought RJIS did give Mr C unsuitable advice in March 2013. She upheld 
the complaint and directed RJIS to put him back in the position he would have been, if he 
hadnt invested in this EIS. She also said, RJIS should reimburse him the £5000 late fee hes 
had to pay to HMRC.  
RJIS didnt agree with the investigators view so this has come to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and based on what Ive seen so far, I am upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Suitability of advice
Ive looked at what information was available to consider whether the advice to invest in the 
EIS was suitable, including Mr Cs knowledge and understanding of the investment, what his 
investment objectives were and his attitude to risk. RJIS have provided several documents 
dated between 2011-2013 which give details of the EIS they recommended and discussed 
his circumstances.
Mr Cs knowledge and experience of investments seems to be limited to investing in ISAs 
and bonds. He was an existing client of RJIS so the history of his investments should have 
been available to them. RJIS should have been able to establish the level of experience he 
had in investments, his existing holdings and current financial situation. There is nothing to 
suggest he had any previous experience of this type of investment, in EISs or other 
investments offering tax relief and was dependent on the advice he was receiving from them. 
I accept that Mr C was a high net worth individual and the investment amount represented a 
small percentage of his wealth/assets, but he would need to continue working in order to 
maintain his lifestyle. The disposable cash available to him was limited and so the 
investment represented a large percentage of his available capital.
It is necessary to establish Mr Cs investment objectives to understand whether the advice 
given was suitable. Whilst he was looking for capital investment, his primary objective was to 
make an investment which would offer him income tax relief. RJIS advised him to invest all 
his money into the EIS because it met that objective, but they should also have known the 
level of risk Mr C was prepared to take. From what Ive seen of his previous investments and 
everything hes said, he is a cautious investor who hadnt previously made any high risk 
investments. 
I have seen that Mr C is noted to be a low to medium risk investor. The investment is initially 
described as suitable for investors seeking a lower risk but the suitability report in March 
2013 said the EIS was speculative, involves significant risk and should only be invested in by 
those able to bear the possibility of complete financial loss. The EIS was much higher risk 
than the low to medium risk he was prepared to take and he didnt have experience of these 
kinds of investments. He said he was never told there was a possibility he could lose the tax 
relief or the whole capital he had invested. I dont think Ive seen enough to say that RJIS 
explained the increased risk the investment presented or that he understood the risk 
involved. Having reviewed everything thats been said, its clear it exposed him to greater 
risk than he intended, and Im not persuaded this was in line with his attitude to risk so I think 
the advice Mr C received to invest in this EIS was unsuitable.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In deciding what will be fair compensation I agree with the investigators view of returning 
Mr C, as close as possible, to his pre-investment position. Whilst it is difficult to say precisely 
what he would have done, given the risk involved, it is unlikely that he would have invested 
in this particular EIS. He would most probably have continued with another investment 
offering similar tax benefits as this was his main objective. In the absence of any further 
information about an alternative investment, we wouldnt be able to determine how this 
would have performed so I think a fair approach would be to return Mr C back to his pre-
investment position. what should RJIS do?
To put things right RJIS should pay Mr C the following:-
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
EIS still exists FTSE UK
Private Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr C agrees to you taking 
ownership of the investment, if you wish to. If it is not possible for you to take ownership, 
then you may request an undertaking from Mr C that he repays to you any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr C's circumstances and risk attitude.
Late payment interest to HMRC
RJIS should also refund Mr C the interest he was required to pay HMRC for the tax relief 
received but later withdrawn. He would not have incurred this interest had it not been for 
the investment in this EIS. My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against Raymond James Investment 
Services Ltd. They should compensate Mr C as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman