DRN-2412093
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage Mr and Mrs E took out in 2014 with 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. Mr and Mrs E complain that Aviva should not have lent 
them the money.
What happened
This is one of a pair of linked complaints, as Mr and Mrs E have, at the same time, 
complained that the intermediary who arranged the mortgage (whom Ill refer to as T) 
shouldnt have done so. The two complaints are discrete from each other, and my decision 
here deals solely with the actions of Aviva. My decision on the complaint against T will be a 
separate document. 
That said, the two complaints do arise from a common set of circumstances, so its inevitable 
that there will be a degree of commonality in the two narratives.  Also, there will be 
occasions in this decision against Aviva where I will refer to T, because context requires me 
to.
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex and the evidence in 
the case, is detailed. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence 
are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated 
documents and repeated arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised 
events in rather less detail than has been presented, using my own words and rounding the 
figures. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my 
decision is published.
In 2014, Mr and Mrs E had three main financial needs: these were:
circa £59,000 to repay an existing loan;
circa £40,000 to make gifts to their children; and
circa £100,000 to pay the balance on an overseas property investment theyd agreed to 
buy and paid a deposit on several years previously. 
To achieve they applied to Aviva for an equity release mortgage. The amount borrowed was 
£200,000 with a reserve of around £105,000 for possible future draw-downs. Sadly, some 
time after Mr and Mrs E had completed on the purchase of the overseas property, the 
developer went out of business, and their property was taken by the liquidators. 
The gist of Mr and Mrs Es complaint is that the equity release mortgage that enabled them 
to complete the purchase shouldnt have happened, for two broad reasons; these are, in 
summary:
their home was subject of an irrevocable trust, making it unsuitable security for an equity 
release mortgage; and
Aviva shouldnt have lent them money to fund such a risky investment.
Two of our investigators considered the complaint, but neither recommended it be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs E have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and made a 
further detailed submission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
So that theres no ambiguity, that includes the material received from Mr and Mrs E on 4 
January 2021.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr and Mrs E have been for so long here, its 
a natural subjective reaction to want to pursue every individual issue with vigour. But I have 
a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping 
back from the fine detail and taking an overview. 
Aviva lent Mr and Mrs E the money they wanted to fund completion of their overseas 
purchase. But that doesnt mean Aviva was in any way responsible for the overseas 
purchase itself, or advising Mr and Mrs E on its suitability as an investment. 
By their own evidence, Mr and Mrs Es decision to invest overseas was taken several years 
before the mortgage was taken out, and theyd already paid a substantial deposit. Aviva had 
nothing to do with that. Mr and Mrs E have previously brought a complaint to us about the 
financial business that did recommend they make the investment. 
The complaint against Aviva is that the mortgage should not have been provided, for the two 
primary reasons I summarised earlier. Thats what I have to decide and in reaching my 
conclusions, I can have no regard for the hindsight that subsequent events have brought. Ill 
address them in turn, starting with the question of the trust.The available evidence points to Aviva not having been made aware that a trust existed, and 
Ive addressed the possible impact of that omission in my decision on the complaint against 
T. But the point is entirely moot in relation to the complaint against Aviva. 
Aviva did its own due diligence to assess the suitability of Mr and Mrs Es home as security 
for a mortgage. It did that by conducting a Land Registry search on the proposed security, 
which confirmed that the property was held in joint tenancy (not tenants in common which 
would be the case if the property was subject to a trust). 
Thats the check Id expect a responsible lender to make, and on this occasion, the check 
confirmed that there was no impediment to Aviva lending money secured by a mortgage 
over Mr and Mrs Es current home. Other than the valuation to assist Aviva in deciding how 
much it would lend, there was no requirement for Aviva to make any further checks or 
enquiries on Mr and Mrs Es property.
That brings me to Mr and Mrs Es second reason for maintaining that Aviva was wrong to 
lend them the money; their intended use of around half of the initial amount lent to fund 
completion of their overseas investment. 
Mr and Mrs E say lenders have a regulatory duty not to lend where the intended purpose is 
as risky as this one was eventually revealed to have been. I appreciate the strength of 
feeling with which they hold that opinion, but I dont agree that Aviva breached its regulatory 
obligations when it lent them the money theyd applied for.
A lender has a duty to lend responsibly, and to meet that duty, it assesses an application on 
the applicants ability to afford monthly payments and the risk that the money lent might not 
be repaid. However, this was an equity release mortgage; it required no monthly payments, 
so affordability wasnt an issue. 
Also, because this was an equity release mortgage, the risk of it not being repaid altogether 
was minimal. It is, by design, a type of loan that is expected to be repaid from the sale of the 
property after the last surviving borrower has either died or been required by circumstance to 
move into residential care. So, from Avivas point of view, a responsible lending decision 
didnt need an assessment of the riskiness or otherwise of Mr and Mrs Es intended use of 
the money.
Mr and Mrs E pose the question of why Aviva would have asked about their intended use of 
the money if it wasnt a factor in the lending decision. Thats a straightforward question to 
answer. Lenders need to know that any money they lend is not going to be used for illegal 
purposes; thats all.
Mr and Mrs E clearly had high hopes for their overseas investment, and it seems to me that 
their highest priority in 2014 was borrowing the money they needed to complete on it. The 
equity release mortgage was, as Ive found, the only realistic means of achieving that, and I 
cant find that Aviva was wrong to provide the mortgage Mr and Mrs E wanted because of 
what happened later. 
I understand how devastated Mr and Mrs E must be that the investment was taken away 
from them in the way it was. But however much sympathy I might have for their situation, 
overall I cant find that this has happened because of acts or omissions on the part of Aviva.
Mr and Mrs E dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Aviva will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Es right to take legal action against Aviva over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman