DRN-4417232
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about the settlement and service provided by Amtrust 
Europe Limited (Amtrust) under their furniture protection policy. For the avoidance of doubt, 
the term Amtrust includes its agents, contractors, and representatives in this decision letter.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P bought a sofa and swivel chair in August 2019 and took out the relevant policy 
with Amtrust at the time, which covered accidental damage and staining. The sofa was 
damaged in 2020 and repaired by Amtrust. Mr and Mrs P then reported further damage to 
the sofa when their son and his friends had a party in July 2022.They thought that clothes 
had scratched the corner sofa. Amtrust accepted the claim. It offered replacement covers 
which werent a successful match, and also offered further repairs. Mr and Mrs P were 
unhappy with this and Amtrust offered Mr and Mrs P the opportunity to select a new sofa 
from the retailer up to the value of nearly £2,700 or a cash settlement of just over £1,300.
Amtrust upheld Mr and Mrs Ps complaint regarding certain service and communication 
failures and offered compensation of £100 in this respect. Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with 
the outcome of their complaint and referred the matter to this service.
The relevant investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She said that it was standard 
practice for insurers to pay the equivalent of what they would pay for a repair or 
replacement. However, as to the reselection option, she noted that Amtrust had said that it 
had included a 50% matching set discount for the swivel chair, however she couldnt see 
that this had been added to the settlement figure. She considered that this should be added 
so that the settlement was in line with the offer made in Amtrusts letter of May 2023. 
As to the cash settlement option and Amtrusts position that it should be 50% of the 
reselection figure, as this is the discount it would receive from the retailer, the investigator 
said it hadnt provided evidence to support this. She didnt think it was fair to deduct any 
reselection discount. She therefore recommended that Amtrust offer Mr and Mrs P the 
choice between reselection or a cash settlement, both to the value of just over £3,000. 
Finally, with regard to service issues, the investigator concluded that the compensation offer 
of £100 for the delays was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs P wished to correct inaccuracies in the view but were willing to accept a cash 
settlement for just over £3,000. However, Amtrust disagreed with the investigators view and 
stated that whilst it didnt have evidence of the retailers agreement as to the discount it 
would receive, it said this had never been a problem previously. The matter has therefore 
been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issues for me to determine relate to the amount and manner of settlement of Mr 
and Mrs Ps claim as well as certain service failures. I uphold the complaint for the reasons 
which follow.
I turn firstly to Mr and Mrs Ps submissions. They said that the first repair was carried out in 
2020 and the poor quality of repair is the reason the claim made in 2022 is now irreparable. 
Whilst the repair initially appeared to be successful in 2020, they said that the scratches 
opened back up and pink staining came through. Mr and Mrs P said Amtrusts technician 
said the sofa was unrepairable as the previous repair had been bodged. They said the 
scratches hadnt been filled and sealed correctly which is why it had split open again, and 
the wrong colour mix had been used. Mr and Mrs P said new covers were ordered but didnt 
match the original. Amtrust was unable to repair the sofa to a satisfactory level and could 
guarantee the repair for only six months, due to the previous poor repair. 
Mr and Mrs P also said theyd had to chase Amtrust for many months. After many phone 
calls to Amtrust, it eventually offered a voucher to the value of the sofa or half this as a cash 
payment. Mr and Mrs P said the current cost of a similar sofa to their own was now much 
higher. They therefore asked Amtrust to replace the sofa on a like for like basis or to refund 
the full value in cash. When they complained in July 2023, Mr and Mrs P said that the issue 
had eaten into almost a year of their warranty. They felt that the terms and conditions of the 
policy mentioned by Amtrust werent applicable, due to the first technicians bodged job and 
so it was Amtrust that damaged the sofa. Finally, Mr and Mrs P referred to health issues and 
said that having to constantly chase for almost a year had caused stress.
Amtrusts case-notes show that in September 2022, the sofa had deep scratches that had 
previously been repaired. The notes also record The individual scratches have not been 
filled, glued or sealed and the pigment does not match and is pink in colour. They show that 
new covers were therefore required, but when the covers arrived in April 2023, they were the 
wrong colour. The notes suggest that Mrs P had agreed to further repairs, but when Amtrust 
tried to arrange a date, Mr P said he wasnt happy to accept the repairs. In May 2023, 
Amtrust informed Mr and Mrs P that it couldnt supply covers due to the retailers change in 
furniture range. It then offered two options, firstly to choose a new item from the retailer up to 
the value of the policy limit. This was the price originally paid, including 50% of the matching 
items, less previous repair costs of just over £100. It explained that the value of the original 
discount had been applied by dividing the amount across the number of seats purchased in 
that transaction. The second option was cash settlement at 50% of the reselection value.
Amtrust partially upheld the service complaint for the period March to May 2023 with an offer 
of £100 compensation and an apology for any distress or inconvenience caused. It 
acknowledged that the manufacturer had provided incorrect replacement parts. It said that 
the initial repairs had been carried out to Mr and Mrs Ps satisfaction at the time of the repair. 
It also explained that the policy was indemnity-based, and any offers would not exceed the 
amount originally paid for items. It said it was unable to guarantee all repairs would be 100% 
successful and if they were to fail, it would look to an alternative resolution, as in this case.
Amtrust explained its figure of nearly £2,700 for a replacement sofa had been produced by 
applying a proportional discount figure to the sofa of just over £1,200 less a previous repair. 
As to the cash settlement option, it said this was limited to the equivalent cost of repair or 
replacement and that this was 50% of the reselection cost, due to its arrangement with the 
retailer. As to the deducted figure of just over £100, Amtrust said previous claims were 
deducted otherwise the total settlement would have exceeded the original purchase price. 
As to the investigators view that Amtrust should add an element in relation to the swivel 
chair, Amtrust considered that the chair wasnt a matching item. It said it was a different 
model, a different fabric and a different colour.Having considered all of the relevant submissions and evidence, I now turn to the reasons 
for my decision. The starting point is the wording of the policy as this forms the basis of the 
insurance contract between parties. Here, the relevant policy terms state, The most the 
Insurer will pay under this Furniture Protection Plan is limited to the original purchase price 
of your product. It also states that, If a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to 
replace the damaged part. In the event of this not being possible, [Amtrust] may at its sole 
discretion provide a replacement product(s). Alternatively, [Amtrust] may at its sole discretion 
settle the claim by a cash payment instead of a repair or replacement. Any cash settlement 
will be limited to the equivalent cost of repair or replacement.
I consider that the terms and conditions of the policy are clear and that the maximum amount 
that will be paid out under the relevant policy is the original purchase price. On the available 
evidence, its not possible to state how exactly the retailer apportioned discounts between 
the sofa and swivel chair. I consider that the retrospective apportionment applied by Amtrust 
to the sofa was fair and reasonable in assuming that the discounted price was just under 
£2,800. This would be the maximum replacement value which could therefore be applied 
under the policy. I note that it also deducted £100 for a previous repair.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P consider that the first repair had been unsuccessful and that 
they said that Amtrusts technician called it a bodged repair which meant that the sofa could 
no longer be repaired. However, Mr and Mrs P hadnt initially complained about the first 
repair and the incident which prompted the current claim was related to an event in 2022. I 
therefore consider that a deduction of £100 for a pervious repair was fair and reasonable. 
Bearing in mind the method of remedy under the policy was at Amtrusts discretion, I cant 
say that its offer of two options was unfair. Nor can I say that the apportioned value of just 
under £2,700 was unfair.
I note that the original sofa would have cost just over £4,000 before discount. There were 
further purchases at the time to include a swivel chair, the policy, fabric protection and 
delivery. I see that Amtrust offered a replacement sofa up to a value of nearly £2,700 or a 
cash settlement of nearly £1,350. To reach this figure, Amtrust had deducted just over £100 
for the previous successful repair claim in August 2020. I note however that in its May 2023 
letter, Amtrust also said that their reselection value included 50% of the matching items. 
The figure of nearly £2,700 doesnt however include 50% of the purported matching items
In the circumstances, I agree with the approach the services investigator had taken to 
apportion the discount provided for the original purchase between the sofa and swivel chair. 
This was also an approach which Amtrust had acknowledged as a valid approach. This 
meant that Mr and Mrs P had paid just under £2,700 for the sofa and just under £700 for the 
swivel chair. I agree with Amtrust from the sales invoice, that the sofa and swivel chair dont 
form a set or matching items. They are of a different make, fabric, and colour. It therefore 
appears that Amtrusts reference to including 50% of the matching items, was a mistake. 
However, by including this reference in their formal offer letter, I consider that it would now 
only be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to honour this offer and to pay 50% of the swivel 
chair cost, being just under £350 in addition to the cost of the sofa.
As for the alternative cash settlement offer of 50% of the reselection value. I note that 
Amtrust has stated that it doesnt have any evidence of the arrangement with the retailer and 
that this has never been a problem previously. It also attached a previous ombudsman 
decision which referenced this. However, Amtrust has been unable to provide any specific 
evidence in this case to support the argument that it would receive this discount. In addition, 
I consider that the terms and conditions of the policy dont make it sufficiently clear that a 
cash settlement will be limited in this way. A fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint in 
the circumstances is that Amtrust should offer a replacement sofa or a cash settlement of 
just over £3,000 (the specific amount being detailed in the final decision below). Whilst the terms of the policy are clear that the choice of option is at Amtrusts sole discretion, it is clear 
that Amtrust offered the two options to Mr and Mrs P. I consider that it would be unfair and 
unreasonable for it to now limit this choice in the light of the substantive findings in this case.
As for Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about service issues, I note that the manufacturer was 
unable to supply matching parts, and this contributed to avoidable delays in dealing with this 
matter. However, I also consider that Amtrust was responsible for certain delays and 
communication issues between March and May 2023. There had then been some confusion 
around whether further repair was possible and acceptable to Mr and Mrs P. I consider it 
entirely understandable that by this stage, Mr and Mrs P felt that a repair was no longer 
acceptable and that they were seeking an alternative solution. I can see that Mr and Mrs P 
had to chase Amtrust on several occasions and I can understand their frustration. In all the 
circumstances however, Im satisfied that Amtrusts compensation offer of £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs P was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and I require Amtrust 
Europe Limited to do the following in response to their complaint within 28 days of 
acceptance by Mr and Mrs P of this final decision:
- Amtrust to offer Mr and Mrs P the choice of a replacement sofa or a cash settlement 
to the value of £3,014.67
- Pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused (if this hasnt 
already been paid
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman