DRN-4265498
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund 
money they lost after falling victim to a scam.
Mr A, who is a director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr A was looking to purchase a caravan for a friend. He found a 
suitable caravan on an online marketplace and contacted the seller. Mr A asked questions 
about the price and the condition of the caravan. Mr A was asked to pay £500 to secure the 
sale and for the caravan to be held until the weekend when he would collect it.
Mr As friend transferred £520 into Bs account for the purchase of the caravan and Mr A 
transferred £500 from Bs account to the seller. After making the payment he asked the 
seller for more pictures of the caravan and documentation so he could arrange insurance. 
When the seller didnt respond, Mr A realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr A raised a fraud claim with Lloyds on Bs behalf, asking them to refund the loss. Lloyds 
considered the claim but declined to refund B. They said that Mr A hadnt done sufficient 
checks to ensure that the caravan and the seller were genuine.
Mr A disagreed with Lloyds opinion, so he brought a complaint to our service on Bs behalf.
An investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend that Lloyds should refund B. 
The investigator explained that as B was using another partys money to purchase the 
caravan for them  the loss belonged to the other party  B wasnt actually out of pocket. As 
part of Bs complaint, they raised concerns about the procedures followed by the receiving 
bank in opening the scammers account. The investigator explained that we cant consider 
this point under a complaint raised against Lloyds, but B could raise a separate complaint 
against the receiving bank.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying:
Lloyds shouldve started an investigation on the person who took their money and 
reported the fraud to the police.
Lloyds shouldve investigated the receiving bank and their policy and procedures and 
sued them to get Bs money back.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, 
and Ill explain why.
The starting position is that Lloyds are expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that its customers authorise, in accordance with the Payment Service 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. So, when 
Lloyds made the payment, it was complying with Mr As instructions made on behalf 
of B.
While Lloyds are a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances  Im not satisfied that I can fairly hold Lloyds liable under 
the CRM Code. I say this because Mr A was buying the caravan for a friend. Mr As 
friend transferred £520 into Bs account in order for Mr A to make the payment of 
£500 to the fraudster. This means that B hasnt suffered a financial loss as it wasnt 
their money that was sent onto the fraudster.
Mr As friend sent the money from a UK bank account and could raise a complaint 
with his own bank, as they are the party that suffered a financial loss as a result of 
the scam.
Its worth noting that even if I did consider it was Bs financial loss, it wouldnt change 
the overall outcome of this complaint as I still wouldnt recommend Lloyds should 
refund B. I say this because I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to identify a scam risk 
based on the characteristics of the payment, so they werent required to give B an 
effective warning. Also, I cant see that Mr A took reasonable steps to check the 
legitimacy of the caravan prior to making the payment. He didnt ask for any 
documentation prior to payment or carry out any checks to establish that the seller 
owned the caravan. Although after making the payment when he asked for 
documentation, the seller stopped corresponding with him. As Mr A hadnt seen the 
caravan in person, I wouldve expected him to do at least basic checks prior to 
making the payment.
From what Ive seen Lloyds acted promptly on being made aware of the scam and 
contacted the receiving bank to try and recover Bs money. However, no funds 
remained in the beneficiarys account by the time Mr A reported the scam. While I 
appreciate that Mr A feels Lloyds shouldve contacted the police and started an 
investigation into the fraudster who received the money  that isnt action that I would 
expect Lloyds to take. Lloyds are required to report the scam to the receiving bank so 
they can take appropriate action on their end  which Lloyds did. I would also expect 
Lloyds to co-operate if they were contacted by the police in relation to this matter, but 
its for Mr A to raise the matter with the police and Action Fraud.
Mr A has also raised concerns about the receiving banks process and procedures in 
relation to the fraudsters account. But that would need to be addressed separately in 
a complaint raised against the receiving bank. I cant fairly hold Lloyds liable for the 
receiving banks actions.
I appreciate that Mr A is going to be very disappointed in the outcome Ive reached. 
However, as Im not satisfied that B suffered a financial loss, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to 
refund them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman