DRN-2708301
The complaint
Ms O complains that Anglian Windows Ltd, trading as Anglian Home Improvements, 
(Anglian) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is 
brought on her behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out in 2006. The policy was taken 
out during a meeting when Ms O applied for a loan for a conservatory. It provided her with 
life and hospitalisation cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that the 
policy wasnt suitable for her. The adjudicator said Ms O wouldnt have received a 
proportionate refund of the premium if she cancelled the loan early and that she might have 
needed this flexibility.
Anglian didnt agree. It responded in detail to say, in summary, that:
If Ms O cancelled the policy within 30 days she would have received a proportionate 
refund of the premium, provided she hadnt made a claim.
Ms O signed to say that she wanted to take out the PPI policy.
The adjudicators conclusion that Anglian advised Ms O to take out the policy is based 
on an assumption. Ms O was provided with the necessary information for her to make an 
informed choice whether to take the policy.
The elements to create a contract have been met.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Os case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Os complaint and Ill explain why.
In response to our adjudicators conclusions, Anglian said it didnt advise Ms O to take the 
policy. But when it provided us with its business file, it told us this was an advised sale. And 
the Your Personal Illustration paperwork includes a section headed demands & needs 
statement and personal recommendation with the wording, I recommend you take out the 
optional Protected payment Plan because it meets the needs, documented above. So I find 
that Anglian did recommend the policy to Ms O. This meant it had to make sure it was 
suitable for her.
I dont find it was suitable for Ms O for the following reasons:
I find there was a mismatch between the term of the loan and the term of the policy. The 
loan was to be repaid over a period of 15 years. The PPI was taken out for five years. This 
meant Ms O would have carried on paying for the policy for up to 10 years after the cover 
ended. If shed taken out another policy after five years, shed have been paying for two 
policies at the same time  while only being covered by one of them.
If Ms O chose to repay the loan early, she would not be entitled to a proportionate refund of 
the PPI premium.
I think the term mis-match and the lack of a proportionate refund meant Anglian should not 
have recommended the policy as suitable for Ms O in her circumstances. So I find the PPI 
was mis-sold.
Putting things right
Ms O borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been, 
and she paid more than she should have each month. So Ms O needs to get back the extra 
shes paid.
So, Anglian should:
1. Work out and pay Ms O the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would have paid each month without PPI.
2. Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms O paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Ms O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Ms O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Anglian Windows Ltd, trading as Anglian Home Improvements should pay compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman