DRN-4413421
The complaint
Mr T has complained Revolut Ltd wont refund a transaction he didnt make.
What happened
In April 2023 Mr T was out in a nightclub and had his phone stolen. The following morning he 
tried to report this to Revolut by email. He noted money had been transferred from another 
account he held (with a bank Ill call H). Mr T eventually was able to confirm fraud had taken 
place on his account shortly after a transaction for £7,141 took place in a store in London.
Mr T confirmed this couldnt have been him as he was elsewhere at the time. Revolut 
refused to refund him. Mr T brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but found it difficult to explain how an unknown party 
could have used Mr Ts mobile to access his accounts and spend money with Mr Ts 
authorisation. He wouldnt ask Revolut to refund the disputed transaction.
Mr T didnt agree with this outcome and has asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. He was also able to confirm the status of the police investigation into what had 
happened.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 September 2023. I believed Mr T hadnt authorised 
the transaction and asked Revolut to refund him.
Mr T accepted this outcome. I heard nothing further from Revolut.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ts complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing else specific in 
Mr Ts case.
The PSRs also require financial institutions to provide evidence that they relied upon in 
rejecting any claim about disputed transactions. Whilst Revolut has been able to provide 
information on the individual transaction, there is no other evidence to suggest Mr T has 
acted with gross negligence.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions as well 
as what Revolut and Mr T have confirmed to us. Specifically I can see:
Mr T has told us his phone went missing during the evening of 1 April 2023 (or early 
morning of 2 April) after a night out with friends. 
Mr Ts email address with Revolut, along with his Apple ID were changed in the early 
hours of 2 April. His ability to use the find his phone feature was also disabled.
What followed was many transactions Mr T has said he didnt make. These were 
made using his phone and app with Apple Pay and included online transfers from 
within Mr Ts account with H and then £5,000 to his Revolut account as well as a 
purchase for £7,141 using the Revolut account from a shop in London.
Mr T was able to get refunds of Uber transactions direct from H as they accepted 
these were not him. H wouldnt refund £5,000 as this was transferred to Mr Ts own 
Revolut account.
Evidence from H shows Mr T reported fraud with them just after 9am. So I see no 
reason to doubt Mr T when he says he tried to report what happened with his phone 
to Revolut that morning and before the disputed transaction even took place.
Mr T reported what happened to the police. Theyve been able to confirm that 
transactions made at a garage and within the shop in London were not carried out by 
Mr T. Other evidence shows Mr T couldnt have been in London at the time of the 
disputed transaction.
Mr T has said that hes looking for £7,141 to be refunded by Revolut.
I have considered whether Revolut can hold Mr T responsible because theres no simple 
explanation for how the payments were made without his involvement as our investigator 
has suggested. However the test under the PSRs isnt whether I can exactly pinpoint how 
the fraud happened but whether these were authorised by Mr T. And I believe there are 
various scenarios which explain how his password could have been known  particularly if 
Mr Ts phone had been targeted by fraudsters during the evening. I also note the details that 
were changed after the fraudsters initially accessed Mr Ts phone which shows they tried to 
limit Mr Ts ability to access his own account.
Ive also considered the nature of the disputed transactions. These clearly follow the type of 
transactions we see when fraud is being committed. Transfers were made in the early hours 
of the morning. I dont believe that these transfers were anything but out of character for 
Mr T, as were the rest of the transactions that followed. Whilst we need to be careful about 
saying certain payment patterns look like fraud, in this case Im in no doubt what happened 
here matches fraud-related activity.
Mr Ts account with H was accessed and money transferred. This money had been saved by 
Mr T for his future. I can see no reason why Mr T would spend this himself. 
I have considered Mr T may have authorised these transactions but if this were the case, 
hed have to have committed extensive and varied first party fraud  with the involvement of a third party  and I dont see any reason for him doing this.
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied Mr T didnt authorise the disputed transaction.
Putting things right
Revolut will need to refund £7,141 in full. As Mr T has been without a large amount of money 
for a long period, Revolut will also need to add 8% simple interest to this amount from the 
date his account was debited until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Revolut Ltd to:
Refund £7,141 to Mr T; and
Add 8% simple interest from the date he was debited until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman