DRN-3579070
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund payments he made after falling 
victim to a scam.
Mr Gs complaint was brought to us by representatives acting on his behalf. As the account 
is held in Mr Gs name, Ill mainly refer to Mr G throughout the decision.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr G made three payments to repay a third partys mortgage that Ill refer 
to as A.
What Mr Gs representatives say:
Since 2019, Mr G has been vulnerable due to physical injuries he suffered as the 
result of an accident. They say these injuries were physically visible and that the 
branch staff at his local Lloyds branch were both aware of the accident and had 
noticed a change in his behaviour since the accident.
They believe the branch staff had found Mr G to be aggressive, confrontational and 
demanding when he went into the branch and as a result red flags were placed on 
his bank account.
In November 2019 one of the representatives registered a Power of Attorney (POA) 
with Lloyds which gave the representatives authority to make decisions on Mr Gs 
behalf in relation to his property and finances. They feel that Lloyds were on notice at 
this point that Mr G had vulnerabilities - if they hadnt been previously. 
The POA was taken out as it wasnt clear after Mr Gs accident what the impact of his 
injuries would be long term or how they would impact his capacity to handle his own 
affairs. 
Around November 2019 Mr G made people in his local area aware that he was 
coming into a large sum of money, and at that time was befriended by A.
In December 2019, some of the representatives became aware of Mr Gs relationship 
with A. They say that A was taking Mr G to some regular appointments and that Mr G 
was very vocal about his feelings for A - saying that he intended to marry her.
Between December 2019 and February 2020 Mr G spent large sums of money to 
improve As property. The representatives say they asked Mr G why he was 
spending the money on her property and were told by Mr G he was doing it to prove 
his love for her.
In February 2020 Mr G and A attended the bank where she held her mortgage  not 
Lloyds. Mr G attempted to use his Lloyds card to repay As mortgage, but was unable 
to do so. The representatives suggest this was because of Mr Gs demeanour at the 
time and it mayve been obvious he was under the control of substances.
As a result of being unable to make the payments at As bank, Mr G and A attended 
Mr Gs local Lloyds branch and made the three payments. The payments were all 
made on the same day in quick succession. The first payment was just over £23,000, 
the second payment was just under £3,000 and the final payment was just over 
£117,000.
The representatives raised a complaint with Lloyds, saying Mr G was the victim of a scam 
perpetrated by A and that shed taken advantage of him. They asked Lloyds to refund Mr G 
for the three payments.
Lloyds considered their claim and declined to refund Mr G.
What Lloyds have told us:
In November 2019 when the POA was registered with them, they were told by the 
representative that it was important Mr G retained access to his accounts. Therefore, 
they had to note on their records that Mr G had mental capacity which they told the 
representative.
The branch staff at Mr Gs local branch knew about his accident. But when Mr G 
attended their branch in February 2020, he was acting normally and introduced A as 
his fiance. He told them that he wanted to pay As mortgage off before moving in 
with her. The branch staff commented that Mr G didnt appear to be under duress or 
unstable, and that he seemed chatty and normal.
As the third payment of just over £117,000 was unusual and out of character for     
Mr Gs previous account use, they completed a High Value Checklist (HVC) and a 
fraud script was read out to Mr G.
As Lloyds wouldnt refund the payments, Mr Gs representatives brought a complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and upheld it. They reached this answer based 
on agreeing that Mr G was the victim of a scam, and therefore his payments were covered 
by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). Under the CRM Code 
consumers who meet the definition of vulnerable are entitled to a full refund on payments 
made as part of a scam, and the investigator was satisfied that Mr G met that definition of 
vulnerability. Therefore, the investigator recommended a full refund of all three payments.
Lloyds disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying they didnt believe Mr G was the 
victim of a scam and therefore his complaint didnt fall under the CRM Code. On that basis, 
they didnt agree that Mr G was entitled to a refund and asked for the case to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
My provisional findings
On 27 April 2022, I issued a provisional decision due to reaching a different outcome on the 
case than our investigator had. I asked for both parties to provide any more comments or 
evidence that they wanted to be considered before issuing my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I can fairly require Lloyds to refund Mr G and Ill 
explain why. 
Was Mr G the victim of a scam?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Lloyds made the 
payments, it was complying with Mr Gs instructions. At the time, Mr G wanted to pay A and 
there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account details.
Mr Gs representatives have told us that Mr G was very vocal about his feelings for A and 
that in his mind he was going to marry her. This coincides with what the branch staff have 
said about the discussions they had with Mr G when he attended the branch in February 
2020 to make the payments. They say A was introduced as Mr Gs fiance and he told them 
he was repaying her mortgage to move in with her. The representatives also told us that A 
attended regular appointments with Mr G.
Its worth noting that there is a lack of clear evidence here to say what the relationship was 
between Mr G and A, and what As intentions or motivations mayve been. So, I have to 
reach an answer based on the information I do have. From what Ive seen, Im not satisfied 
that I can safely conclude that its more likely than not Mr G was the victim of a scam, as 
opposed to this possibly being a failed relationship or a civil dispute. So, Ive gone on to 
consider what that means with regards to what action Lloyds shouldve taken and whether I 
can fairly ask Lloyds to refund Mr G.
Is Mr G entitled to a refund under the CRM Code?
Lloyds is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Code 
(the CRM Code). The Code requires Lloyds to refund customers who have been the victims 
of a scam, with some limited exceptions.
The Code covers Authorised Push Payments, which is the payment method Mr G used, and 
it says:
DS1(2) 
(a) APP scam  Authorised Push Payment scam, that is, a transfer of funds executed 
across Faster Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer, authorised by a 
customer in accordance with regulation 67 of the PSRs where
(i) The customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed 
were legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent
There are further definitions provided in the Code, but Ive included the section that is 
specifically relevant to Mr Gs case.The Code is quite clear that it does not apply to payments that werent made as the result of 
a scam or fraud. And as I cant safely conclude that Mr G was the victim of a scam, I cant 
apply the Code in this case or ask Lloyds to refund Mr G under the Code. But I have gone on 
to consider whether Lloyds couldve or shouldve done more to prevent the payments being 
made in the first place.
Should Lloyds have prevented Mr G from making the payments?
There is an obligation on Lloyds to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers from, 
potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying 
suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In situations when potential 
fraud is identified, I would expect Lloyds to intervene and attempt to prevent losses for the 
customer. 
The first two payments that Mr G made, werent particularly unusual or out of character 
based on his previous account use. However, the third payment was particularly large at just 
over £117,000 and was also the third payment made in quick succession, taking the total 
transferred to just over £143,000.  Therefore, Lloyds shouldve had concerns and taken 
steps to identify if Mr G was potentially the victim of a scam  which they did.
Due to the size of the last payment, Lloyds completed a High Value Checklist (HVC) and 
asked Mr G questions about the payment. Its not clear exactly what the full discussion was, 
although there are some set questions on the HVC which Mr G is likely to have been asked. 
The HVC required the staff member to read a scam script to Mr G and to ask some yes/no 
questions about the purpose of the payment, with the purpose of the payment indicated as 
mortgage payment. Lloyds have also told us that during the discussion Mr G introduced A 
to them as his fiance and told them he was paying off her mortgage before moving in with 
her. What Lloyds have told us about the conversation, seems to be in line with what Mr Gs 
representatives were told when they asked Mr G about why he was spending money on 
improving or renovating As property. 
Having carefully considered what both parties have told us, Im not persuaded that there was 
anything said or presented during that discussion that wouldve suggested to Lloyds staff 
that Mr G was potentially the victim of a scam  whereby I wouldve expected Lloyds to 
intervene. On that basis, I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably in processing Mr Gs 
payments, and I wouldnt have expected them to intervene further or prevent Mr G from 
making the payments. 
Should Lloyds have done more to protect Mr G
The representatives say Mr G was vulnerable and that his vulnerabilities were obvious to 
Lloyds. 
Having listened to the call when the representative rang Lloyds to register the POA, they 
chose to have Mr G noted as having mental capacity and specifically told Lloyds they 
wanted him to retain access to his accounts. So, Im not satisfied the registering of the POA 
meant that Lloyds shouldve taken additional steps to protect Mr G in these circumstances. 
Mr G gave a plausible reason for the payment and Lloyds didnt identify any particular 
concerns in his demeanour or his behaviour. 
Also, while the representatives say that Lloyds had seen a change in Mr Gs behaviours in 
prior months and added a red flag to his account  I havent seen any evidence that this was 
the case. The contact notes provided by Lloyds record the registration of the POA, but there 
are no comments in the 12 months prior that indicate any recorded concerns about Mr Gs behaviour while in the branch. Therefore, Im not persuaded that Lloyds shouldve acted 
differently or not followed Mr Gs instructions.
I appreciate that Mr G will be very disappointed, but having very carefully considered 
everything presented by all parties involved in the case, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund   
Mr G.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr Gs representatives provided a lengthy response to the provisional decision. They raised 
many different points and provided extensive documentation. Id like to reassure them that I 
have read their full submission but will summarise the main points that I need to address in 
reaching my decision. This includes:
One of the representatives says they attended a Lloyds branch in January 2020 and 
told them that Mr G was not able to function normally and was unable to manage his 
financial affairs. They say they told branch staff that the representatives named in the 
POA needed access and control of his accounts. The representative says that during 
this meeting they were told the branch staff held notes about Mr G being aggressive 
and chaotic when he had contacted Lloyds telephone banking team.
When the second representative called Lloyds in Jan 2020 to register his position 
under the POA, he was asked if Mr G had mental capacity and he told Lloyds no.
Both representatives named on the POA say that when they attended the local 
Lloyds branch, as part of the POA registration process, that they told the branch staff 
Mr G didnt have capacity. Also, the in-branch discussion negates the November 
2019 call when they told Lloyds Mr G did have mental capacity.
Lloyds had a duty to tell them about Mr G making the payments theyre disputing, 
and if they had they wouldve stopped the payments from being made.
The representatives werent aware of Mr Gs relationship with A, only a friendship 
with her. They feel the comment made by the branch staff about Mr G introducing A 
as his fianc is conjecture.
Mr G disputes being asked any questions when he made the transfers and disputes 
being read a scam script.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, where there is a dispute about what happened and 
the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence.
Ive listened to the additional call that Mr Gs representatives referred to, where the second 
representative registered their authority under the POA. In the call the representative is 
asked directly by the Lloyds staff if Mr G has mental capacity and the representative says 
yes he does. Both of Mr Gs representatives say they told Lloyds Mr G didnt have mental 
capacity when they called to register the POA, but this isnt what is actually said in both calls 
 which is that Mr G does have mental capacity.The representatives have also referred to conversations they held with branch staff when 
they attended branch to complete the POA registration. However, the contact notes provided 
by Lloyds have no record of these discussions being held or any reference being made to  
Mr G not having mental capacity and being unable to manage his accounts.
I considered the point Mr Gs representatives made about Lloyds not meeting their 
obligations regarding protecting vulnerable consumers. However, as I set out in the 
provisional decision, Im not satisfied that the registering of the POA meant Lloyds shouldve 
taken additional steps to protect Mr G in these particular circumstances. 
I say this because Lloyds were told Mr G had mental capacity and it appears that Mr G was 
operating his account on a day to day basis - often for multiple transactions per day between 
November 2019 when the POA was first registered and February 2020 when the disputed 
payments were made. And I think its worth noting that a few weeks prior to the disputed 
transactions, Mr G had made several transfers and payments out of his account in excess of 
£10,000 each (the highest of which being £30,000)  which the representatives havent 
raised any concerns about. 
Also, Mr G gave a plausible reason for the disputed payments when asked by Lloyds and 
Lloyds say they didnt identify anything concerning in his demeanour or his behaviour. 
Therefore, I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to contact the representatives when Mr G was 
making the payments in February 2021.
I have also considered the comments the representatives made about Mr Gs relationship 
with A and what he remembers from when he made the payments in branch. However, the 
notes Lloyds have provided are quite clear about the discussion held with Mr G, the 
questions they say were asked and the responses they say they received from Mr G. I 
havent seen anything that suggests that these notes cant be relied on or that they arent 
representative of the discussion held with Mr G. 
However, regardless of that, Mr Gs representatives havent provided any new or additional 
information that allows me to fairly conclude that Mr G was the victim of a scam, or that 
Lloyds shouldve refused to follow Mr Gs payment instructions for the three payments in 
question.
I realise that Mr G is going to be extremely disappointed but having considered everything 
provided by the representatives, I see no reason to depart from the answer I reached in my 
provisional decision. Therefore, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman