DRN-1166492
 
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss H arranged the mortgage via a broker in July 2000. However, it appears that the PPI 
was sold to Miss H by YBS at a slightly later date.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
As Ive already mentioned, Miss H arranged her mortgage via a broker. Ive seen the 
mortgage application form that she signed on 26 July 2000. On the form its recorded that 
Miss H has expressed interest in receiving details about the PPI policy. So, Im not 
persuaded that the broker sold the PPI to Miss H. I think the broker just passed information 
to YBS that Miss H had an interest in the PPI.  On balance, and looking at the dates of other 
paperwork relating to the PPI, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that YBS sold the 
policy to Miss H.
Following Miss Hs expression of interest on the mortgage application, YBS sent her a PPI 
illustration. This explained the cost and benefit of the policy. It also stated that the policy was 
free for the first six months.
There was a separate PPI application form that Miss H signed on 12 September 2000. Miss 
H has chosen cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, rather than just 
unemployment only or sickness only. She has also chosen a 30 day excess period on the 
policy instead of 60 days. This suggests that there was some discussion about the policy 
and that Miss H has given consideration to her needs.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Hs recollection of 
events has faded. She says she recalls the PPI being presented to her as something that it 
would be silly not to take. This might have been in the context of the policy being free for the 
first six months. Miss H could have cancelled the policy after six months if she didnt want to 
pay for it.From what we know of YBSs sales processes at the time, PPI was normally presented as 
optional. The documentation Ive seen suggests that was the case. Ive thought very 
carefully about what Miss H has said about feeling obliged to take it. However, I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that YBSs normal sales procedure wasnt followed in this 
case. Overall Im satisfied that Miss H probably decided to take out the policy, knowing that 
she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Its unclear whether or not YBS recommended the PPI to Miss H. However I dont really 
need to make a finding on this as it doesnt affect my overall decision. If YBS did advise Miss 
H to buy the policy then, in recommending it to her, it needed to ensure that it met her 
needs. And from what I know of Miss Hs circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable 
for her.
Miss Hs employer would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Miss H would have received full pay for. 
Miss H said she held some shares in the company she worked for at the time although she 
can no longer remember how much they were worth. Having to sell shares at short notice to 
release funds isnt always ideal as you might not be getting the best price. Besides, having 
the PPI would have allowed Miss H to retain any savings or shares or to use them to cover 
other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. So I consider that Miss H could 
have benefitted from the policy and therefore it would have been reasonable of YBS to 
recommend it to her.
YBS also had to provide Miss H with enough information about the PPI for her to make an 
informed decision about whether or not it was right for her. I can see that the policy 
illustration detailed the level of cover, the excess period and the cost after the six month free 
period.
Miss H has said that YBS failed to tell her that she could shop elsewhere for a policy. There 
was no duty on YBS to highlight other policies available on the open market. It only had to 
give her information about the policy that it had available. It was enough that YBS made it 
clear that the policy was optional  and I have found that it did make that clear.
Its possible that YBS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means that YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H. But YBS 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
When the policy was sold, YBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. 
Because YBS didnt tell Miss H, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Yorkshire Building Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss H.But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman