DRN-1585015
 
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H was sold the PPI during a meeting at the same time as arranging his mortgage in 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagree with the adjudicators opinion and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken 
this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS has very little paperwork available from the time of the sale, which isnt surprising given 
how long ago the sale took place. But it does make the case more difficult to decide. 
Therefore, in reaching my decision, I have considered the evidence that we do have, and 
what I consider is most likely to have happened. Ive also thought about how long ago the 
sale took place and how this may have affected Mr Hs memory of events.
Mr H says that the PPI wasnt mentioned during the meeting, meaning that BoS added the 
policy without his knowledge or consent.
Although we dont have the actual paperwork for Mr H, we have seen copies of the sort of 
forms that BoS were using at the time. Based on what we know of the sale of mortgage PPI, 
I consider it is more likely than not that there would have been a discussion about the policy 
as part of the wider conversation about Mr Hs mortgage needs. Overall I think its more 
likely that not that the policy was presented as optional.
As Ive said, the sale was a long time ago, so it also wouldnt be surprising if Mr Hs 
recollection of events has faded. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr H has said, but on 
balance I think that he probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even 
if he no longer remember doing so.
BoS advised Mr H to buy the PPI. Therefore in recommending the policy, it needed to 
ensure that it met Mr Hs needs. And from what I know of his circumstances at the time, I 
think the policy was suitable.
Mr H would only have received statutory sick pay if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness. And he didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think he had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Mr Hs representative has said the policy was unsuitable because of the 30 day deferment 
period because Mr H had no way of covering that period. A deferment period of at least 30 
days is fairly standard in most PPI policies. After the first 30 days, the policy could have 
potentially paid out for up to 24 months, which in Mr Hs circumstances would have been a 
real lifeline. I think its likely Mr H would have found some way to make it through those first 
30 days, after which his mortgage repayments would have been covered. Ive thought 
carefully about what Mr Hs representative has said, but overall I am satisfied that the 
deferment period didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr H.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr H had 
an interest in protecting his repayments. And I dont think the 30 day deferment period would 
have put Mr H off buying the cover.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. But 
Mr H wasnt affected by any of those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that more information would have caused him to change his 
mind.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman