DRN-3405558
The complaint
Miss M complains that a car she took on hire purchase from Black Horse Limited was not of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2020 Miss M entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with Black Horse 
for a used car. The car had been first registered in August 2014 and had covered nearly 
55,500 miles. It had a cash price of £6,575. Miss M was to pay a deposit of £1,075 and then 
make monthly payments of £127.89.
Soon after she took delivery of the car, Miss M reported that the engine was rattling and that 
the tyres were deflating regularly. She returned the car to the dealership for further 
investigation. It was unable to replicate the rattling noise but said that the engine noise was 
normal for the make and model of car. The tyre management pressure sensor was replaced, 
and Miss M was advised that some suspension parts would need replacing in the near 
future.   
In March 2021 Miss M arranged for an independent inspection of the car. It had by this point 
covered just over 58,500 miles. As well as some advisory items, that inspection reported that 
both front anti-roll bar bushes needed replacing. The dealership replaced a drop link and two 
tyre valves but did not believe that the anti-roll bar bushes needed replacing at that point.
In August 2021 the car had an MOT test. The car passed the test, but with an advisory that 
there was slight play in a front suspension component and that underside components were 
showing general signs of corrosion. 
In November 2021 Miss M said there was a noise from the engine. She was advised the car 
needed a new oil pump. Miss M contacted the dealership, but it said this was commensurate 
with the age and mileage of the car. The following month, the car would not start. Further 
investigation indicated that the cambelt was shredded and needed replacing. 
The car was taken to the manufacturer for further investigation. It said that the most likely 
explanation for the cambelt damage was the it had been starved of oil. An inspection of the 
oil pump would indicate if that was the case, but the pump had by then been replaced. 
Miss M complained to Black Horse that the car had not been of satisfactory quality. It agreed 
to accept responsibility for the initial issues with the tyres and for replacement drop links. It 
also offered to pay Miss M 10% of the monthly payments she had made up to that point  
just under £150. 
Miss M did not think that this was sufficient and referred the matter to this service, where one 
of our investigators considered it. She thought however that Black Horse had done enough 
to put matters right. Miss M did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator noted, Black Horse was under a duty to supply a car which was of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect, given the 
cars age, mileage and price. Miss Ms car was six years old with a relatively high mileage, 
and that was reflected in the price. It was to be expected that it might need some repairs 
beyond routine servicing issues. 
Both Black Horse and the investigator took the view that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality in some respects. I have however concentrated on those areas where there is 
disagreement about the problems which came to light. 
Miss M says she noticed a rattling noise from the engine quite soon after she took delivery of 
the car. The dealership said however that it was unable to replicate the noise which she 
described. It did not think that the anti-roll bar bushes needed replacing, a conclusion 
supported by the results of the MOT test in August 2021. 
The more major issues with the car came to light in or about November and December 2021. 
The oil pump was replaced, but that was in line with the expected lifespan. At that point, the 
turbocharger was also found to need replacement. The investigator noted that, by this point, 
the car had been inspected on a number of occasions, but no issue with the turbocharger 
had been identified. I therefore agree with her conclusion that it is unlikely that it had been 
faulty at delivery. 
It appeared that the cambelt needed replacing because of oil starvation. The oil level had 
been satisfactory when the car had been checked in March 2021, so it seems that this was a 
problem that developed later. And no debris was identified when the oil pump was replaced 
about a month before the cambelt failed. The investigator thought this might mean that the 
oil pump had been poorly installed. She noted in any event that Miss M had covered around 
7,500 miles in the car since she had taken delivery of it; it is unlikely that would have been 
possible if such a significant defect had been present then. 
Miss M has suggested that the car had not been serviced regularly before she acquired it. 
That does appear to have been the case. The service history indicates it was serviced at 
10,000 miles in 2015 and then not until 40,000 miles in 2018. It does not appear however 
that Miss M was told that it had been serviced in accordance with the manufacturers 
recommended schedule, and I dont think it would have been reasonable for her to assume 
that it had been. 
I accept that some components  and in particular the cambelt  appear to have failed rather 
sooner than their generally expected lifespan. I do not believe however that I can fairly 
conclude from that alone that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was delivered. 
Components will sometimes last longer than expected and will sometimes fail sooner than 
usually expected. I think in this case that the issues Miss M experienced were within the 
parameters I would expect for a car of this age and mileage.  
In the circumstances, I am satisfied that Black Horses response to Miss Ms complaint was 
reasonable in the circumstances and I do not propose to make an award in Miss Ms favour.         
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Black Horse Limited to take any further steps to resolve Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman