DRN-2870888
The complaint
Mr I complains about the standard of repairs undertaken at his flat by Zurich Insurance Plc
following his home insurance claim for damage caused by an escape of water.
What happened
In August 2019 there was a water leak in the flat above Mr Is flat. Mr I discovered water
dripping through his bathroom ceiling. He made a claim under his home insurance policy.
Zurich accepted the claim and a few days later sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. The
surveyor recommended to Zurich that the claim proceed to repair.
In November contractors attended to carry out the repair but Mr I was unhappy with the
standard of workmanship. He contacted Zurich to advise he wasnt happy and Zurich asked
him to send it photographs of the repairs. On reviewing the photographs Mr I had sent,
Zurich agreed that some of the works werent up to standard. It contacted its contractor who
disagreed but nevertheless said itd wait for Zurichs instructions about what it was expected
to do next. In early December, after reviewing the photographs again, Zurich thought neither
the application of the silicone sealant or the floor tiling had been done correctly. It also noted
that there was a cracked fascia panel, that door facings werent going down to the floor, that
there was a leak on a shut off valve and that there were other issues too.
Zurich told the contractor on 9 December that it needed to sort it out. The contractor told
Zurich that it was apprehensive about returning to Mr Is property but a few days later it said
it would review matters and revert. On the same date Zurich logged Mr Is complaint.
It wasnt until 24 January 2020 that Zurich chased the contractor to ask it for an update on
how it was progressing with Mr Is claim. The contractor replied a few days later to ask if the
complaint could be closed and its invoices settled.
Zurich then issued Mr I with its final response to his complaint at the end of January 2020.
Zurich said it didnt think its contractor had been given the opportunity to address the issues
raised. It said Mr I needed to give the contractor the chance to put it right. Zurich also offered
Mr I compensation of £100 for any inconvenience caused.
In early March 2020, Mr I called Zurich asking where his compensation payment was. At the
end of March he chased again for an update on his claim. On 15 April 2020, the contractor
told Zurich that the complaint was resolved and the repair works completed.
Mr I complained to this service in September 2020. He said his bathroom remained
unrepaired and that he needed £1,500 to complete the works. Our investigator looked into
the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She said that Zurich had said the
repairs were completed in April 2020. Mr I disagreed with our investigators findings. He said
Zurich was lying to her and that no repairs were carried out in April 2020, his bathroom
remained in the same state and he still wanted £1,500 to complete the repair himself.
Our investigator asked Zurich if any repairs remained outstanding and, if they did, whether it
would offer Mr I a cash settlement. She also said to Mr I that Zurich advised her that he
himself had removed some boxing in (covering some pipes) whilst the sealant was still wet.
She said that Zurich didnt think its contractor could be held responsible for that or that the
repairs shed seen in the photographs would cost £1,500 to complete. Mr I said he thought
our investigator was siding with Zurich. He listed the outstanding works he said still needed
to be done and why it would cost £1,500.
Zurich confirmed to our investigator that its contractor had reattended the flat in April 2020 to
complete the works and that itd not heard from Mr I since. Zurich also said that its contractor
had advised at one stage that the outstanding silicone sealing could be cash settled for
£36.06. Mr I continued to insist that the works remained outstanding and that no-one had
attended in April 2020 (or been back since the Autumn of 2019).
Zurich then told our investigator that thered been some confusion and its contractor hadnt
in fact reattended in April 2020 rather it had closed the complaint when nothing further had
been heard from Mr I after Zurichs final response letter (inviting him to contact it) in January
2020. With regard to Mr Is other comments Zurich said its previous response clarified its
contractors position on the outstanding works.
Our investigator issued her further findings on the complaint. She said it was clear that Mr I
had asked the contractor to leave (in the Autumn of 2019) but Zurich now accepted its
contractor had never reattended in April 2020 and that there had been a misunderstanding
about this on its part. Our investigator said that Zurich agreed some sealing remained
outstanding and noted that Zurich had tried to contact Mr I to arrange either a further
appointment to do the sealing or alternatively to offer him a cash settlement of £36.06; she
thought that was reasonable. Our investigator asked Mr I to let her know if he wanted to
accept the cash settlement and the compensation of £100.
Mr I said hed tried to contact Zurich numerous times after April 2020 but was ignored. And
he said hed stopped the repair because the contractor wasnt doing it properly. He still said
the repair would cost him £1,500.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision recommending that the 
complaint was upheld in May 2021. I made the following provisional findings: 
I have to decide whether Zurich treated Mr I fairly and reasonably in the way it handled his
complaint. Unfortunately for Zurich I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Of particular relevance to this complaint are Zurichs system notes. These are effectively a
log of what was being done (or not) on the claim and they provide a timeline too. Ive set that
out in the background section above.
Firstly, its not readily apparent to me why it took over three months from the date of the leak
for the repairs to start. I can see the contractor assessed the claim and recommended it
proceed to repair within a week or so of the leak occurring in August 2019. I can also see it
was acting for Zurich under a delegated authority agreement. That means Zurich had
delegated the management and resolution of the claim to the contractor. There is no
information available to me to see why it took the contractor until November to start the
repair. So Ive taken this delay into account when thinking about what fair and reasonable
compensation should look like for Mr I. I would also welcome any comments in response to
this provisional decision  from either party  that could explain or justify the delay in starting
the works.
Secondly, I can see from the system notes  as set out above  that contrary to what Zurich
told our investigator, Mr I did contact it after it sent out its final response letter.
Mr I asked the contractors to leave at the end of November because he wasnt happy withthe standard of workmanship and I can see he told Zurich about it. Its apparent from the
system notes that - having reviewed the photographs Mr I sent it in December  that Zurich
agreed with him that the works had been of a poor standard. It commented:
[photographs] sent to me to review. Cracked facia panel, door facings not going down to
floor, leak at shut off valve, scraping to pedestal on WHB. WC and WHB
look to be set at an angle and are running off. Called [contractor] and they are
aware. and I have told [X] at [contractor] that the works are not acceptable and
the contractors will need to sort it out and that Zurich will not be
paying for the works as it is standard tasks that have not been carried
out correctly.
So, from December, having reviewed the photographs, Zurich clearly agreed that its
contractors workmanship was substandard and that there were several issues that needed
to be addressed. I can see it asked its contractor to resolve the situation and that it said it
would. And having reviewed the photographs myself I can see the damage Zurich referred to
in the system note above. So I cant agree with it when it says that it will only take £36.06 to
complete the work to a satisfactory standard.
There was then a six-week delay when nothing appears to have happened. I dont think that
was fair or reasonable. I can see Zurich asked the contractor for an update at the end of
January 2020 and in reply it asked if it the complaint could be closed and its invoices settled.
Zurich said in response that it was reviewing the claim and would provide an update shortly
but currently had no update to give the contractor on the status of Mr Is complaint. But on
the very same date Zurich issued its final response letter to Mr I about his complaint.
The final response letter Zurich sent to Mr I made no reference to the issues accepted as
outstanding in December 2019 and which remained unresolved. I dont think failing to refer
to these issues was a reasonable way to treat Mr I. The only outstanding issue referenced
was the silicone sealant that still needed doing, for which Zurich offered Mr I a cash
settlement. And whilst Zurich said to Mr I in the letter that its contractors shouldve been
given the opportunity to resolve his concerns I cant see any evidence that it ever
approached him and asked if he would agree to that. Whilst he did ask the contractor to
leave the site originally (in the Autumn of 2019) theres no evidence that Zurich, after
receiving Mr Is complaint, made any attempt to suggest the contractor be allowed to return.
Instead, from the system notes, the emphasis of the discussion between Zurich and the
contractor from the start of February 2020 was solely about the settlement of the contractors
invoices. This culminated in a statement from the contractor to Zurich on 15 April 2020 that
the complaint was resolved and the repairs completed. And Zurich accepted what the
contractor said.
So after accepting in December 2019 that the repair was substandard and needed resolving
it appears to me that Zurich let Mr I down. It didnt ensure the contractor completed the
works and it didnt follow up on what it had asked the contractor to do.
Zurich is responsible for the actions of its contractor so its failings are Zurichs to resolve.
Clearly there are issues that remain unresolved (as stated in the quote above) and as visible
from the photographs taken by Mr I. Zurich entered into a contract of repair with Mr I when it
undertook to repair his damage home. That contract remains unfulfilled and Mr I has not
been put back in the position he was in  with a fully functioning bathroom in good
decorative order  before the claim arose. He is entitled to receive an effective and lasting
repair and Im unable to agree that Zurich has discharged its contractual duty to him in this
respect.Putting things right
Zurich needs to return to Mr Is flat to complete an effective and lasting repair to his
damaged bathroom. I include in that the need to reinstate the boxing in that Mr I removed
and behind which the contractor had thrown parts of the frame hed meant to be using (as
visible in one of the photographs). I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr I to have removed
the boxing in in the circumstances. And the repair needs to include all the issues referred to
by Zurich in the December 2019 system notes (quoted above).
Mr I has been living with an unrepaired bathroom for over 20 months. He drew the matter to
Zurichs attention in November 2019 yet nothing was done to address his concerns or the
issues Zurich admitted existed. I think that Mr I has been put to some considerable trouble
and upset by this. From the photographs Ive seen the damage wasnt overly extensive and
it didnt look to be a complex repair. So I dont understand why it took so long to start the
repair (over three months) and I dont understand why, when Mr I first raised his complaint
Zurich didnt have a contractor remedy the issues in a timely way.
All home insurance claims come with a certain degree of distress and inconvenience. Thats
to be expected. But where an insurer, through its words and deeds makes an already difficult
situation worse, this service can require it to pay compensation to the affected policyholder. I
think Zurich made a straightforward repair worse. Its poor handling of the claim, poor
customer service, un-necessary delays and poor communication with its contractor all
caused Mr I avoidable trouble and upset. For this I think Zurich needs to pay Mr I
compensation of £250. If it has already paid Mr I the £100 compensation it offered him in
January 2020 it need only pay him a further £150 now. Zurich should let me know about this
when it replies to this provisional decision.
Mr I replied to my provisional decision to say that he agreed with it. Zurich replied to my 
provisional decision and made the following points: 
1. That any delay in the contractor starting the repair was the result of Mr I being on 
holiday, on it waiting for his material choices and then arranging a start date to suit Mr I. 
It also pointed out that Mr I hadnt complained about any delay to the repair starting.
2. It agreed that some works werent up to standard so in December it asked the contractor 
to reattend and rectify the works, at which point it also logged a complaint for Mr I. On 
speaking to Mr I on 16 December 2020, he confirmed hed told the contractors to leave 
because he wasnt happy with them. 
3. That I thought it was reasonable for Mr I to rip out the boxing however, in doing so he 
failed to give any opportunity for this, or other works, to be rectified or to even have a 
discussion prior to ripping out the boxing. 
4. That when Mr I made his complaint it offered to cash settle for the silicone as it was clear 
it hadnt been done. 
5. It hadnt been given any opportunity to consider any other works so, in its final decision 
letter it offered for the contractors to reattend but Mr I has proved difficult to contact and 
has been unresponsive. 
6. Due to the lack of a response from Mr I, it advised in the final response letter that he 
should contact it to make arrangements but he never did. When he did call six weeks 
later he asked for the compensation but made no mention of the works.
7. That our investigator had found Zurichs actions to be reasonable in that the contractor 
had tried to contact Mr I to arrange for a cash settlement or for another contractor to 
come out. Our investigator had also said that in situations such as this, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service looked to the insurer to be given the opportunity to rectify the 
repairs which is exactly what it had offered and had tried to do. 
8. It noted that trouble and upset had been caused but the timeline continued past the final 
response letter date of 30 January. Zurich said that events after this date shouldnt be considered as part of this complaint. It would log a second complaint for events after this 
date if we wanted it to. So it felt that £100 compensation was fair and reasonable for the 
inconvenience up to this date. 
The complaint was passed back to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with each of Zurichs responses in the same order as Ive listed them above. 
Ive still not been presented with any documentary evidence from Zurich about why it took so 
long for the contractors to start. I note Zurich says the delay was due to Mr I being on holiday 
(but it doesnt say for how long), to waiting for his material choices (but it doesnt say how 
long for) and due to having to arrange a start date with Mr I (again Zurich doesnt say how 
long this took). So Ive no idea how much of a contributory factor in the delay to starting 
works these issues were. So Im not persuaded to change my view from that which I set out 
in my provisional decision: in other words its still not completely clear to me why it took over 
three months to start the repair. 
But I note that Zurich says that Mr I hasnt complained about any delay in the repair starting 
and I also note that he hasnt commented on this issue in his response to my provisional 
decision. 
The delay in starting the repairs was one of many factors I took into account when deciding 
how much compensation to award Mr I and, as Zurich is aware, this service has an 
inquisitorial approach when considering a complaint. That means we do more than just look 
at how a complaint is presented to us  we think about the whole picture. So whilst Mr I 
hasnt specifically complained about the delay to the repairs starting, he said on his 
complaint form that he wanted to complain about the service he received from Zurich and I 
dont think a three-month delay  thats not been fully accounted for  in starting a relatively 
straightforward repair can fairly be said to be providing a reasonable standard of service. 
That said, even if I were to fully accept what Zurich has said  namely that the delay in 
starting the repair was not its fault  it wouldnt have persuaded me to reduce the amount of 
compensation I think Mr I should receive. Thats because there were several other customer 
failings on the part of Zurich (as I set out provisionally) that have led me to reasonably 
conclude it should pay him total compensation of £250.
Point 2 merely repeats information I already considered and referred to in my provisional 
decision. On checking the contact notes I cant see any reference to a call between Mr I and 
Zurich on 16 December. Assuming such a call took place I dont doubt Mr I told Zurich hed 
told the contractors to leave  back in November  because he was unhappy with the 
standard of their workmanship. And I commented provisionally that Zurich had asked its 
contractor to return and resolve the sub-standard works. Unfortunately for Zurich the 
contractor didnt do so nor did Zurich follow its request up or arrange for an alternative 
contractor to attend. So, this point hasnt altered my view about the outcome of this 
complaint.  
Turning to point 3, as I said in my provisional decision, I saw no evidence that Zurich ever 
offered, suggested or tried to arrange with Mr I, after he complained in November 2019, that 
its contractors should be given the opportunity to return to the property to rectify the poor 
workmanship. This was first mentioned by Zurich in its final response letter at the end of January and, even then, it was mentioned alongside the fact that the contractors disagreed 
that thered been poor workmanship. 
I dont think its reasonable, as Zurich seems to be suggesting (both in response to my 
provisional decision and in its final response letter), that, having asked the contractor to 
leave owing to poor workmanship, that Mr I shouldve given it the opportunity to rectify the 
issues before it did. 
Mr I has said  and the photographs Ive seen appear to support him  that the boxing in had 
been done to a very poor standard and when he moved the lid (by which I assume he means 
the panelling/boarding/bath panel) he found the contractor had thrown parts of the frame he 
was meant to be using for the boxing in under the bath itself. So, in those circumstances, I 
remain of the view that it wasnt unreasonable for Mr I to have removed the boxing in. The 
photographs dont show there to be a properly constructed frame behind the WC and the 
sink; rather they indicate that the boxing in was being held together by a significant amount 
of silicone (as opposed to being first fixed to a frame).
From the photographs, and the absence of a frame to fix the boarding to, it seems to me that 
the boxing in wouldve needed to be removed in any event in order for an effective and 
lasting repair to happen. So I dont think its removal by Mr I has in any way prejudiced 
Zurich. 
I appreciate that Zurich offered Mr I a cash settlement so he could get the silicone done but, 
as I said provisionally, it had entered a contract of repair with Mr I. And it accepted in early 
December 2019 that more than the silicone needed to be rectified. I dont think it was fair for 
Zurich to offer to settle the remainder of Mr Is claim by paying him £36.06  not when it 
knew there were a number of outstanding areas of poor workmanship. 
I think that the fifth point Zurich has made has largely been addressed by me already above. 
Ive seen no evidence of any attempts by Zurich to contact Mr I after its final response letter 
was issued. Mr I has said he contacted Zurich on numerous occasions but theres no 
documentary evidence of this. As I said provisionally, because Zurich entered into a contract 
of repair, it needs to return to Mr Is property to complete the outstanding works. In accepting 
my provisional decision, Mr I has clearly agreed that it should. 
In respect of the sixth point I agree that Mr I called Zurich in mid-March 2020 to ask about 
the compensation payment and that there was no mention about the claim from him at that 
point. But three weeks later Mr I sent Zurich an email chasing it for an update. Zurich replied 
to say it was waiting for an update from the contractor and that it would keep Mr I posted. I 
can see it sent an email to the contractor on the same date asking it for the latest update 
about the claim. So its reasonable to assume from this that Zurich considered the claim to 
be ongoing and that it thought Mr I did too. 
As Zurich is aware, this service operates a two-stage complaint process and when a 
complaint is referred to an ombudsman it is looked at afresh. An ombudsman isnt bound to 
follow what an investigator has said which means, like here, a different outcome might be 
reached. And I set out in detail provisionally why I thought this complaint should be upheld 
and what my reasons for doing so were. And I agree that its the case that this service often 
recommends that the first step is for the insurer to be given the opportunity to return to rectify 
any poor workmanship (as I provisionally required).
But, as Ive said already, theres no evidence that Zurich offered Mr I the opportunity for the 
contractor to return to site to rectify issues itd accepted as outstanding in December 2019 
which still remained to be resolved. The only occasion it did so was in its final response 
letter, a letter in which Zurich failed to mention any of the outstanding issues and stated that 
its contractors didnt believe there had been any poor workmanship. The only outstanding issue referenced was the silicone for which it offered a cash settlement or for the contractor 
to return. Whilst Zurich said to Mr I in the letter that it should contact him if he wanted the 
contractors to return, when he did so in March it told him it was still waiting for an update 
from the contractor. 
Provisionally I said that I was recommending Zurich pay Mr I total compensation of £250 
(this included the £100 it had offered in its final response along with a further £150). I said 
that Mr I had been put to some avoidable trouble and upset by Zurich as a result of it failing 
to do anything to address the concerns he raised, or the issues it admitted existed. For the 
avoidance of doubt, Im referring to the period up to the date of the final response letter. The 
poor customer service I referred to, the poor claims handling, the un-necessary delay and 
poor communication with the contractor (as set out above) relate to the period up to the final 
response. I agree that the timeline referred to in the background section goes beyond the 
date of the final response letter. That it did hasnt influenced my thinking about what fair 
compensation should be awarded. And, it was necessary to show that the repair hadnt 
actually been completed, as repeatedly asserted by Zurich in order to put into context my 
decision requiring it to return and rectify matters. 
So, for the reasons I gave provisionally, I think Zurich should pay Mr I total compensation of 
£250. In reaching this decision Ive had regard to this services approach to compensation 
awards and am satisfied that the amount Im awarding is in line with awards weve made in 
similar circumstances. 
Putting things right
Zurich needs to return to Mr Is flat to complete an effective and lasting repair to his
damaged bathroom. I include in that the need to reinstate the boxing in that Mr I removed
and behind which the contractor had thrown parts of the frame hed meant to be using (as
visible in one of the photographs). I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr I to have removed
the boxing in in the circumstances. And the repair needs to include all the issues referred to
by Zurich in the December 2019 system notes (quoted above).
I think that Mr I has been put to some considerable trouble and upset by Zurichs failure to 
address his concerns or the issues it admitted existed. From the photographs Ive seen the 
damage wasnt overly extensive and it didnt look to be a complex repair. So I dont 
understand why it took so long to start the repair (over three months) and I dont understand 
why, when Mr I first raised his complaint Zurich didnt have a contractor remedy the issues in 
a timely way.
All home insurance claims come with a certain degree of distress and inconvenience. Thats
to be expected. But where an insurer, through its words and deeds makes an already difficult
situation worse, this service can require it to pay compensation to the affected policyholder. I
think Zurich made a straightforward repair worse. Its poor handling of the claim, poor 
customer service, un-necessary delays and poor communication with its contractor all
caused Mr I avoidable trouble and upset. For this I think Zurich needs to pay Mr I
compensation of £250. If it has already paid Mr I the £100 compensation it offered him in
January 2020 it need only pay him a further £150 now
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to take the 
steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman