DRN-3012450
The complaint
Mr B complains as the owner of a flat and as a beneficiary of a block policy taken out by W, 
the freeholder, that Allianz Insurance Plc has declined to pay his loss of rent in respect of a 
claim for water damage.
What happened
Mr Bs property, which he lets out, developed a leak in the roof, which he was in 
communication for some time with the managing agents (D) about. The roof was repaired in 
February 2020. Mr B made a claim to Allianz at the same time. The internal repairs, which 
consisted of redecoration, cleaning of mould and replacement of a bathroom fan, were 
scheduled to start around the end of February 2020. These had been organised by D. 
However Ds contractor refused to carry out the repairs as there was a breakdown in the 
relationship between it and Mr and Mrs B.
Mr B contacted Allianz and it was agreed that its contractor would take over the repair work. 
Mr B wanted this done within two weeks but Allianz advised that wasnt possible. There was 
a delay in getting the contractor out to quote and then the national lockdown started, which 
meant the repairs couldnt be completed until sometime later.
Mr B claimed loss of rent as he said that his tenants were forced to move out because of the 
conditions in the property, and no other tenants would move in. Allianz said the tenants had 
told its loss adjuster and D that they wanted to move out at the end of the tenancy because 
they wanted to move to a larger property. It further said the damage was minor and didnt 
make the property uninhabitable. It pointed out that it wasnt responsible for the first 
contractors refusal to carry out repairs as planned. It apologised for the delay in getting the 
quote and paid £100 for the inconvenience.
After review by this service, our investigator said that Allianz had acted reasonably. He didnt 
think the property was uninhabitable, or that Allianz was responsible for the delay in starting 
the work.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
This decision concerns only what happened up until the final response letter from Allianz of 
22 April 2020. Im aware that there were further issues when the damp reoccurred later in 
the year  those form part of a possible further claim which I believe Mr B is liaising with D 
about.
loss of rent
Mr B claims for loss of rent, as he says his tenants had to move out because of health 
problems caused by the mould. He further says that new tenants wouldnt take om the 
property. He considers it was uninhabitable.
Loss of rent is payable under the policy:
 Where as a result of Damage the buildings of a Residential Property are rendered 
uninhabitable or access is prevented to such Residential Property.
Usually we would say a property is uninhabitable where theres a lack of cooking and/or 
washing facilities and/or it is a danger to health. Here the tenants, although complaining 
about the mould in December 2019, continued to live there until March 2020. They told both 
Allianzs loss adjuster and D that they wanted to move to a bigger property. Looking at the 
photos of the damage I think they bear out Allianzs contention that the amount of mould was 
minimal. The roof had been repaired by D and the property dry so the mould problem 
wouldnt have reoccurred at that time. 
I understand that the water staining was unpleasant and might have put off new tenants but 
being difficult to rent is not the same as being uninhabitable. And, as the policy only provides 
for payment of loss of rent when the property is rendered uninhabitable, I dont think that the 
loss of rent cover applies here.
delay in starting repairs
D had arranged for the repairs to be done by its contractor. That contractor was booked in to 
start the repairs in late February 2020. Following communications with Mr and Mrs B they 
declined to go ahead with the work. Mr B accepted Allianzs offer to use a contractor 
appointed by it. Allianz made it clear that it couldnt comply with Mr Bs request that the work 
be carried out within two weeks, as its contractor needed to visit and scope the works. The 
visit took place on 17 March. However, because of the national lockdown which was then 
imposed, the work couldnt start.
I think there was a delay in getting the contractor out to visit, and Allianz has paid £100 for 
the inconvenience, which I think was appropriate. But I dont think that that delay affected the 
start of the repairs, as Allianz had already made it clear that its contractor wouldnt be able to 
comply with Mr Bs deadline. Looking at the nature of the repairs, which essentially consisted 
of redecoration, I think it was likely that the repairs would have been completed by Ds 
contractor before lockdown. Whatever the reasons for its refusing to do the job, this wasnt 
Allianzs responsibility.
Mr B claims for loss of rent, but the delay in getting the work under way wasnt due to any 
default on the part of Allianz. The policy will only pay out where it is as a result of damage to 
the property. Its unfortunate that the lockdown intervened but I think the repairs would have 
been carried out but for the contractor employed by D refusing to do the job.
So, both because of the property not in my view being uninhabitable and because Allianz 
wasnt responsible for the repairs not being done before lockdown, I dont uphold the 
complaint.
My final decisionI dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman