DRN-2101618
The complaint
Mrs A says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs A bought the policy in connection with a store card. She says she took out the policy in 
1994, at the same time as the store card. But AXA says it was sold over the phone in 2001.   
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case.
Mrs A says she bought the policy in 1994, at the same time as she took out the store card. 
But AXA says it was sold over the phone in 2001. Mrs A has told us about her circumstances 
on both dates. Having considered this information Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold 
 whether it was sold in 1994 or 2001. Ill explain why. 
Mrs A says the policy was sold in store when she took out the card. There isnt much 
evidence to show how the policy was presented to Mrs A, which isnt surprising given 
the amount of time thats passed. In the absence of any other evidence I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make her aware that the PPI 
was optional. 
AXA says Mrs A took out the policy over the phone in 2001. If this was the case then 
Mrs A wouldve known she didnt have to buy the PPI to get the store card. So I think 
she wouldve known she had a choice. On balance I think AXA made Mrs A aware she 
had a choice about buying the policy. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs A might have had to 
cover her repayments.
But even if it had recommended the policy to Mrs A, it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances in 1994 and 2001. 
Even though Mrs A was entitled to employer sick pay, the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to those benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. So I think Mrs A 
wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mrs A would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Mrs A has mentioned other successful PPI claims shes made. But we review each 
complaint according to its own facts and circumstances. And having done that in this case, 
Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman