DRN-3752013
The complaint
Mr W complains about a used car he acquired from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. Mr W has 
referred to having a number of faults with the car and that these have not been successfully 
repaired. 
To resolve the complaint Mr W would like the car repaired, or the ability to hand back the 
car.
What happened
Mr W acquired a used car in October 2021 and at that time the car was around six and half 
years old, had travelled almost 115,000 miles and cost £6,895. Mr W has referred to a 
number of problems or faults with the car but in particular, issues with the cars gearbox and 
clutch.
A number of repairs had been carried out to the car but issues with the gearbox persisted. 
Mr W complained to Moneybarn, who arranged for an independent inspection to be 
completed. This was done on 22 April 2022 and at that time the cars mileage had increased 
to 119,254. The report highlighted problems with the gears, which were tight to engage and 
1st gear was baulking and not selecting correctly. The report refers to a previously 
unsuccessful repair to the gearbox. 
Moneybarn upheld Mr Ws complaint and arranged for the car to be repaired. It also agreed 
to pay Mr W £150 for the trouble and upset he had been caused and write off arrears on the 
account of £342 to reflect the loss of use hed had of the car as a result of the faults. Mr W 
referred to further issues with the gearbox and Moneybarn arranged for a second 
independent inspection to look at Mr Ws concerns. That inspection found that there were no 
issues with the gearbox, but did identify some issues with the bodywork of the car and panel 
alignment. Moneybarn explained that as there was insufficient evidence of ongoing issues 
with the gearbox it would not agree to any further work on the car. And highlighted that any 
cosmetic issues with the cars panelling should have been apparent at the time Mr W 
acquired the car. So it did not consider it was responsible for any related issues. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. In summary, they found that there were issues with the car that likely made it 
of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W. However, Moneybarn had accepted 
this, arranged repairs and sufficiently compensated Mr W for his loss of use and 
inconvenience. The investigator referred to the latest independent inspection report and that 
it had concluded there were no ongoing issues with the gearbox and they did not therefore 
consider Moneybarn should be required to do anything more than it already had. 
The investigator also referred to the bodywork and panelling issues and noted Mr W had 
only raised this issue some months after he had acquired the car. The investigator couldnt 
therefore be certain these were issues from the time the car was supplied, or therefore that 
Moneybarn was responsible for them. 
Mr W did not accept the investigators conclusions and asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. He maintained that the ongoing issues with the gearbox were 
a result of a previous failed repair and supplied further supporting evidence from a garage 
that indicates the gearbox is still faulty. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally it has been referred to me for final 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. Im very aware that I have summarised in much less 
detail what has been submitted by the parties in this complaint. In deciding this complaint 
Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on 
every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr W or Moneybarn 
but reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it. 
Mr W acquired the used car through a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. The 
conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and because of that 
our service is able to consider complaints about the agreement. As the provider of the 
conditional sale agreement Moneybarn is also the supplier of the car to Mr W. As the 
supplier of the car Moneybarn is responsible for the quality of the car and the Consumer 
Rights Act implies terms into to the conditional sale agreement requiring the car to be of 
satisfactory quality. Exactly what is satisfactory quality will depend on the specific 
circumstances of any given case. In this instance, where the complaint relates to a car, I 
think it reasonable that when considering whether the car is of satisfactory quality the cars 
age and mileage at the time it was supplied are all key considerations. 
The requirement on Moneybarn is to ensure the car was of satisfactory quality at the time it 
was supplied. So Moneybarn would not be responsible for any wear and tear items that 
develop over time and might reasonably be expected on a used car with this age and 
mileage. The car that Mr W acquired cost £6,895, was around six and half years old and had 
travelled almost 115,000 miles. When considering a car of this age and mileage it would in 
my view not be unreasonable to expect it to be showing signs of wear and tear and not be in 
the same as new condition that it would have been in when first manufactured. This will be 
in relation to the mechanical components and its cosmetic appearance. The price Mr W paid 
for the car was considerably cheaper than the cost of the car new, and this is to take into 
account the general condition, mileage and wear and tear the car had experienced since first 
being manufactured.
Although I would expect a car of this age and mileage to show signs of wear and tear and 
require some general maintenance and upkeep, it would not however be reasonable to 
supply the car to Mr W with existing defects that go beyond fair wear and tear, unless these 
were clearly pointed out before agreeing to acquire the car.
Mr W has supplied copies of repair invoices that I understand have been provided by the 
supplying dealership and indicate what work has been carried out since Mr W acquired the 
car. Some of these items are in my view simply wear and tear items that would not be 
unexpected on a car that had travelled 115,000. This is not an insignificant amount of miles, 
even if at six and half years old the car was not particularly old. However, Moneybarn 
appears to have already accepted the car was defective when it was supplied in relation to 
the gearbox. Moneybarn has referred to the first independent inspection, which highlights the 
gearbox issues and points to a failed previous repair attempt. As Moneybarn has already accepted the car was not of satisfactory quality I see little need to refer again in detail to that 
here. I will however simply say that having considered the circumstances of the case, noting 
in particular the independent inspection conclusions, I agree the car was unlikely to have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr W. 
Moneybarn arranged for the car to be repaired and compensated Mr W with almost £500 for 
the loss of use and inconvenience he had experienced. Considering the likely impact of the 
gearbox problems, Im satisfied this is a reasonable sum in the circumstances here, 
alongside arranging for the car to be repaired.
Mr W however disputes that the cars gearbox has been repaired and refers to ongoing 
issues with the gearbox and/or transmission. The second inspection report at the end of May 
2022 took the car on a ten-mile trip and found that there were no issues with the gearbox. 
The inspection concluded that, all gears selected readily and smoothly The report does 
refer to the bodywork and panel alignment, but Ill come back to this later. 
While noting what Mr W says about the ongoing problems with the gearbox, this is not 
supported by the independent inspection report. Mr W has provided some further details 
from a later inspection that I understand was carried out towards the end of September 2022 
and this does refer to issues with the transmission. In particular, it notes that the release 
bearing rattling slightly
The mileage of the car at the time of the 30 May 2022 inspection was recorded as 121,043. 
The mileage of the car towards the end of September 2022, when the slight rattle to the 
release bearing was identified is not known. I note however that when the car was MOTd on 
26 October 2022 the mileage was 125,866. 
Having very carefully considered the evidence that has been presented in this case I am not 
persuaded that the repairs to the gearbox were unsuccessful at that time. Nor am I 
persuaded that the current issue with the release bearing has originated from the previous 
repairs. The 30 May 2022 inspection report found no issues with the gearbox during the 10 
mile road test and had the repairs been unsuccessful I think it more likely than not that 
issues would have been identified. 
As already highlighted, the mileage on the car was considerable and in May 2022 had 
already exceeded 121,000 miles. A cars transmission is a complicated piece of engineering 
and consists of a significant number of parts and components. All of which must work 
correctly to ensure smooth and effective gear changes and efficient running of the car. It is 
very possible that even though some repairs were completed to the cars gearbox, other 
components related to the broader transmission, have subsequently failed because of their 
age and use over the 121,000 plus miles the car had travelled. 
Ultimately, from the evidence presented in this case I am not persuaded the car continues to 
have ongoing problems with the gearbox that Moneybarn is responsible for. I think it more 
likely than not that if there are now issues with a slight rattling to the release bearing, these 
are as a result of wear and tear. I do not therefore consider there to be grounds to instruct 
Moneybarn to carry out any further repairs to the car. 
As referred to above, the second independent inspection at the end of May 2022 referred to 
issues with the cars bodywork and panelling. In particular issues with alignment. Mr W 
believes the car has been in an accident and has been written off. The supplying dealership 
disputes this and has supplied a copy of a HPI check that shows the car was not an 
insurance write off. 
While I do not doubt there are some issues with the cars bodywork and panelling, I again refer to the mileage of the car and that it had travelled around 115,000 miles before it was 
supplied to Mr W. The evidence in this case appears to indicate that the car was not an 
insurance write off as Mr W believes. But I accept it is possible the car has had some 
bodywork repairs that have resulted in the poor finish or alignment of panels. I cannot say 
however when these possible bodywork repairs were completed and whether these were 
before or after Mr W acquired the car. However, when acquiring a car that is over six years 
old and had travelled around 115,000 miles I think it is reasonable that the condition and 
appearance of the car would have been considered prior to agreeing to buy the car. It would 
not be reasonable to expect a car of this age and mileage to be in a showroom perfect 
condition, like when it was first supplied at new. I think it is also unlikely that a car would 
have travelled as far as this car has without picking up some bodywork damage. 
It would be reasonable in my view for Mr W to have inspected the car before agreeing to 
acquire it and I must assume that Mr W was happy with the appearance and condition of the 
bodywork when considering the price asked for the car. I dont think it would now be 
reasonable to expect Moneybarn to be responsible for any repairs to the bodywork, even if 
there were some issues from before Mr W acquired the car. 
In summary, I accept that Mr W has had some problems with the car and that Moneybarn is 
responsible for certain issues. Im satisfied however that Moneybarn has acted reasonably in 
arranging for repairs and for the level of compensation it has awarded Mr W. Im not satisfied 
from the evidence presented that there are ongoing issues or faults that Moneybarn are 
responsible for.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out in this final decision, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman