DRN-4081837
The complaint
In summary, Miss L complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) delayed the payment of 
her pension benefits and provided her with poor service.
What happened
In summary:
Miss L contacted SW in 2022 about taking benefits from a pension she had with it on her 
55th birthday that summer. The payment wasnt sent to her until around two months later.
Miss L complained to SW about the delays and poor service she had received. It wrote to 
her on a number of occasions in response to her concerns. It agreed that its service wasnt 
what it should have been. It offered her compensation and agreed to pay her £100 for the 
cost of having documents certified, £300 for the inconvenience caused and £46 for loss of 
interest. It used her birthday as the date to value her claim, so she wasnt financially 
disadvantaged. It also said it would consider any losses due to exchange rates changing 
during the delays.
After the payment was made, Miss L contacted SW again as she was concerned that there 
was a shortfall in the money that was transferred into her euro bank account. In response, 
SW explained that the payment had been sent in pounds sterling. No conversions or fees 
had been applied to the payment.
Miss L contacted SW again. She said that she had been told by her bank that it only applied 
a fee of 31 euros to the payment, and that any conversions would have been carried out by 
SW. In response, SW explained again that the payment was sent in pounds sterling and no 
conversions or fees were applied to the payment. It also said a conversion payment would 
have been completed by the receiving bank. 
Miss Ls concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained it wasnt in 
dispute that SW had caused delays in making the pension benefits payment to Miss L. And 
that it caused her inconvenience and upset. They were satisfied that SW had made the 
payment to Miss Ls bank account without any deduction of fees and that the compensation 
it had offered to her was fair.
Miss L didnt agree with this assessment. In summary, she didnt think it took into account 
the shortfall in the monies she said she had received into her euro bank account. And she 
didnt think it took into account the counselling sessions she had to pay for, which she said 
was due to the stress caused to her by SWs actions. She asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
In preparation for the case being reviewed, the investigator asked SW for more information 
about the payments made to Miss L. It said that £446.07 had been paid to Miss L on 16 
August 2022. And it said the exchange rate was more favourable when the transfer had 
been made in August 2022, so Miss L hadnt lost out in respect of exchange rate differences. 
The investigator then explained this to Miss L, who confirmed she received the funds on 17 
August 2022. But she still believed SW was responsible for a shortfall of 267 euros that she 
should have received in respect of the benefits payment. And she reiterated that her 
experience meant she had needed 10 counselling sessions.
The case was passed to me to review. I asked the investigator to ask Miss L to supply any 
evidence she had that showed the counselling she received, was as a direct result of the 
problems she experienced when trying to access her pension. And I asked for details as to 
how she calculated her loss of 267 euros together with any evidence from her bank relating 
to the transfer.
In response, Miss L provided copies of invoices for medical tests and a screenshot from her 
bank statement showing the amount of euros she received in respect of the benefits 
payment. In addition, she explained that she had no evidence other than invoices. She 
thought how she had been treated by SW would be enough to support her complaint, and 
she now had heart problems as a result of recurrent panic attacks that were a direct result of 
her dealings with SW. She also provided a breakdown of how she had calculated the 
shortfall in the money she received. And she thought there had been a lack of transparency 
in the information provided by SW.
I issued my provisional decision setting out why I didnt think SW needed to do anything else 
on 31 March 2023. I asked for responses by 14 April 2023. SW replied and said it had 
nothing further to add. No further submissions were received from Miss L.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further submissions have been received from either party, I see no reason to depart 
from what I said in my provisional decision. Ive set out my reasoning again below. 
I do understand and empathise that Miss L was inconvenienced and upset that her pension 
benefits payment was delayed by SW. 
Its not in dispute that SW caused delays in making the pension benefits payment to Miss L 
and provided her with poor service. And it has calculated and paid the benefits payment to 
Miss L on the basis of the valuation on her 55th birthday. Also, it has paid her compensation 
for the costs she incurred in having to have documents certified, loss of interest caused by 
the delays in paying her the money and compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she was caused. I think it is appropriate that SW has compensated Miss L in the way that it 
has.
What remains in dispute and the key issues I need to consider, are whether SW is 
responsible for the shortfall in the pension benefits money that Miss L says was received into 
her euro bank account. And whether the compensation it has paid her in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience she says she suffered, is sufficient.
The shortfall in the pension benefits money received by Miss L
In essence Miss L thinks that SW is responsible for a shortfall of 267 euros being paid into 
her euro bank account. SW has provided a screenshot from its systems that records a 
SWIFT payment of £12,512.86 being authorised to be paid to Miss L. It has also confirmed 
that the payment was made in pounds sterling and no charges were made in respect of the 
transfer. So, based on this information, I have no reason to doubt what SW has said.We have asked Miss L to provide evidence of a breakdown of how the sterling payment was 
converted into euros, by way of a statement or some other documentation from her bank, 
that shows any fees her bank deducted and the conversion rate it used. Miss L hasnt 
provided any of this evidence and has said that she was told by her bank that the maximum 
fee would be £31.50. 
It seems to me that if SW made the payment in pounds sterling, then this would have been 
converted into euros by Miss Ls receiving bank. And the rate used could well have been 
different from the published money market exchange rate at the date of conversion. Without 
the evidence that Miss L has been asked to request from her bank, that might show what 
money her bank received and how it was converted; there simply isnt enough information to 
indicate that there was a shortfall, or that SW is responsible for any shortfall that may have 
occurred.
Compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss L
I do accept that Miss L has been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of 
what has gone on. And Im sorry to hear that she thinks the heart problems and panic 
attacks she is suffering from, are as a direct result of the issues she has had with SW. 
In considering an award for distress and inconvenience, I need to think about the impact on 
Miss L of the mistakes made by SW. And there are a number of considerations I need to 
think about, in the context of the amount of any monetary award that might be appropriate, to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.  
Miss L wanted to access her pension benefits on her 55th birthday. Although there were 
some delays by SW, the earliest the pension benefits would likely to have been paid, was 
around the middle of July 2022. The payment was authorised on the 10th of August 2022. So, 
the delay amounted to approximately three weeks, which whilst I accept was three weeks 
later than it should have been, it was a relatively short delay in these circumstances. And I 
also accept that Miss L was put to the inconvenience of having to chase this matter up with 
SW. So, it seems to me that the impact on Miss L would have been relatively moderate.
But l have to consider that Miss L has said that this has all had a much greater impact on her 
than might normally be expected as a result of a delay of this type and time. We have asked 
Miss L to provide any evidence she has that indicates that the medical issues she has 
suffered and the counselling she says she needed, were caused as a direct result of the 
problems she had with SW in respect of taking her pension benefits.
Miss L has told us that she doesnt have any further evidence beyond the invoices she has 
provided. The invoices she has provided relate to the investigations in respect of her heart 
condition. Whilst I accept Miss L has clearly been having a difficult time health wise, which 
Im sorry to hear about, I dont have enough information which could lead me to reasonably 
conclude that the counselling and health problems she has had, are directly attributable to 
the issues she has complained about in respect of SW. As a result, taking into account the 
evidence I do have and what I have said above, I consider that the offer of £300 made by 
SW in respect of the distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable. And I am not 
persuaded that it needs to do anything else.My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited has already paid £12,958.93 to settle the pension benefits claim 
and compensation for the complaint. I think that is fair in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. And it doesnt need to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman