DRN-4002034
The complaint
Mr R complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as LV wrote off his 
car after he had an accident and claimed on his car insurance policy. 
He also complains the valuation LV has placed on the car is not reflective of its condition or 
the optional extras it had on it. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr R has strong views about what has happened, and he explained the 
accident has had a lasting impact. I want to assure him Ive read and considered carefully 
everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not all the points raised. 
This isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr R, and by LV, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that LV 
has acted fairly. I do so the following reasons: 
The terms and conditions of the policy say that where a car is deemed a total loss it 
will pay the market value of the car. It defines total loss as the amount of damage to 
the car which means its uneconomical to repair. And market value as the cost of 
replacing the car with the same make, model and specification. With age, mileage 
and condition taken into account. 
The policy further explains that to decide the market value of the car, advice will be 
sought from an engineer, and that motor trade guides, and other sources will be used 
to determine the market value. 
I understand from Mr Rs submissions he is unhappy he had no choice about 
whether the car was deemed a total loss. However, from looking at the information 
available to me Im satisfied it was uneconomical to repair and as such the policy 
terms allowed the insurer to pay its market value instead of repairing it. 
Mr R was offered the option of retaining the car by LV, which I think is reasonable. 
However, a garage hed previously approached later informed him it would be 
unwilling to carry out repairs to it. This is unfortunate but not something within LVs 
control.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead, we check to see the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we 
tend to use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on 
nationwide research of sale prices.
I understand Mr R had several optional extras on his car which he paid in excess of 
£4,000 for new. These however wouldnt retain the same value and while they may 
make the car more desirable to a purchaser, the value they actually add to the 
recognised market value of the car would reduce over time.  Car accessories such as 
winter tyres, roof racks and floor mats wouldnt usually impact the overall market 
value that much, if at all.  
The trade guides give a range of values for the car, and Im satisfied that where the 
option is available, they have been adjusted to reflect the optional extras, mileage 
and condition of it. The highest value was £13,406 and the lowest £11,100. LV paid 
Mr R £13,500 which is slightly above the highest value, so Im satisfied this is a fair 
and reasonable reflection of the market value of the car.
I understand Mr Rs point about advertised prices he is seeing and that he may need 
to pay extra to replace his car, however Im not persuaded that this means using the 
trade guides is an unfair or unreasonable way of valuing it. I say this because the 
guides use a range of sources to provide the values, including advertised prices at 
the time of loss. So, while Mr R has provided some adverts, which dont exactly 
match his current vehicle, the guides have also taken into account adverts when 
producing a value. It therefore follows Im not persuaded to depart from the guides in 
this particular case.
For the reasons above, I think LV have acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. I therefore do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint against Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited trading as LV.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman