DRN-4395634
The complaint
Mrs I complains about the way Santander UK Plc handled a claim she made to it.
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties  so I will only cover these briefly and 
instead focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mrs I bought travel tickets for flights using her Santander credit card through a travel agent 
(the supplier). She says that she was unable to travel due to government restrictions 
coming about as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and would like a refund of the tickets.
Mrs I was unable to get a refund from the supplier or the airline so approached Santander for 
help. It looked into her claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75) but did not uphold it. It was also unable to recover Mrs Is money through the 
chargeback scheme.
Our service did not uphold this complaint so it has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence submitted by the parties  but I will not comment on 
everything, only what I consider central to this dispute. This is not intended as a discourtesy 
but reflects the informal nature of our service.
For completeness I note that Santander issued a initial final response letter to Mrs Is 
complaint (and a follow up) but Mrs I had referred her complaint to this service what appears 
to be more than 6 months from the date of this letter (and apparently too late for us to 
consider it). I note neither party appears to have raised this however, I am satisfied that in a 
latter final response dated 31 October 2022 (and within 6 months of Mrs Is referral to this 
service) Santander re-investigated both the outcome of the claim and the customer service 
issues experienced by Mrs I and provided fresh referral rights  so I am looking into said 
issues in my decision here.
I am very sorry to hear about the impact of the situation on Mrs I. It is however important to 
note that Santander is not the supplier of flights nor does it have general liability when it 
comes to unforeseen events around the pandemic. So when considering if it acted fairly I am 
doing so in the context of its responsibility as a provider of financial services. This is not 
unlimited responsibility, but subject to the requirements of Section 75 or the chargeback 
dispute rules.
Section 75
Under Section 75 Santander can in certain circumstances be responsible for a like claim in 
respect of breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods or services paid for 
using Mrs Is credit card. 
There are certain criteria for a Section 75 claim to be valid. I have considered these and after 
doing so I note that in this case, although Mrs I bought flights that were ultimately provided 
by an airline her credit card payments for the booking were made to the supplier in respect 
of an agreement she had with it. So I conclude that any Section 75 claim here is only in 
respect of the agreement Mrs I has with the supplier. 
I am sorry to hear that Mrs I and her booking party were unable to take the flight booked 
through the supplier. However, I have not been provided with persuasive evidence that the 
flight was cancelled or didnt go ahead. It appears that Mrs I was unable to take the flight 
because of government restrictions that had been introduced in respect of Covid-19.
My starting point is that looking at its terms and conditions the supplier outlines it has limited 
responsibility outside its role as a booking agent. I know Mrs I says she later contacted the 
airline and found they didnt have a record of the flight booking  but in this case there is no  
persuasive evidence that the flight was not arranged as agreed. I have seen the booking 
confirmation, and it appears Mrs I wasnt able to fly because of restrictions around the 
pandemic  not because the flight was unavailable.  On balance, the supplier appears to 
have fulfilled its contract with Mrs I in arranging the booking and there is no breach of 
contract on its part leading to a financial loss for Mrs I.
Even if I accepted that the suppliers responsibility went further than a booking agent I note 
that its terms attempt to limit its liability in respect of unforeseen circumstances beyond its 
control including a pandemic. 
The legal position where a service can legally go ahead, but a consumer cant take up the 
service because of government guidance/restrictions on travel is complicated. Its arguable 
the contract between Mrs I and the airline was frustrated here. However, as I have said 
above, I dont think the supplier is responsible for this. Furthermore, even if it could be said 
the contract with the supplier had been frustrated in some way, I am looking here at the 
liability of the bank under Section 75. And this is limited to when a contract has been 
breached or misrepresented. If the contract was frustrated this wouldnt be a breach of 
contract and wouldnt assist Mrs I in any claim against Santander.
I know that as part of her dispute Mrs I has mentioned the supplier offering a flight credit for 
another ticket which she did not get. However, because the contract with the supplier 
doesnt entitle her to a credit note or similar this is more akin to a goodwill gesture than a 
contractual term  so it follows that a failure to provide it wouldnt be a breach of contract.
For completeness I have considered if the supplier misrepresented the contract in some 
way  however, I dont think there is persuasive evidence of that. It appears on balance 
(from the evidence presented here) that Mrs I was not given false information about the 
booking and her difficulties travelling arose as a result of the government restrictions rather 
than a misrepresentation by the supplier.
Overall, because I dont think there is persuasive evidence the supplier has breached or 
misrepresented its contract with Mrs I, I dont consider that Santander acted unfairly in 
declining her Section 75 claim.Chargeback
Chargeback is another way that Santander might have been able to recover Mrs Is money. 
However, it is based on the chargeback card scheme rules and is not guaranteed to 
succeed.
It appears Santander initially looked at this as a fraud chargeback based on what Mrs I told 
it - but then it decided this wasnt appropriate. I agree with this -  Mrs I presented no 
persuasive evidence to support a fraud/scam or an unauthorised transaction. Santander 
then looked at other reasons for raising a chargeback but did not appear to successfully 
take the dispute further due to the limitations of the scheme including its time limits.
Looking at when the transactions for the booking were made, the flight dates and when Mrs 
I got in touch with Santander it looks like Mrs I was out of time to raise a chargeback here 
for the transactions she made on the credit card. This is because for a chargeback for 
something like a service not provided (which is the most appropriate reason code based on 
Mrs Is allegations here) there is 120 days to raise a chargeback from the date when the 
service was due to take place. In this case it appears Mrs I got in touch with Santander in or 
around May 2022 but the flight was due to depart in August 2021. So it seems she was out 
of time to raise a chargeback.
However, even if I were mistaken about the chargeback time limits I dont think a 
chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success in any event. I say this because there 
isnt persuasive evidence the service was not provided, either that the booking wasnt made 
or that the flight didnt go ahead. It appears more likely here that the reason for Mrs I not 
flying was due to government restrictions  which isnt something that I can fairly say is 
likely to have succeeded under the chargeback scheme.
I am very sorry to hear about Mrs Is frustration about not being able to travel to see family. I 
can see how upsetting this would be. But unfortunately the situation arose as a result of the 
pandemic and not the actions of Santander  furthermore, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Santander has acted unfairly in declining to refund Mrs I in respect of her claim to it.
Customer service
I have looked at the customer service concerns Mrs I had with Santander. I agree that 
Santander wasnt entirely clear with its communication at times. It also appears to have 
closed her initial chargeback claim (in respect of fraud) without automatically proceeding with 
other aspects of the claim. 
Overall, I think that the main distress to Mrs I has been as a result of having her claim 
declined  but I also think that Santanders handling of matters has aggravated this and 
caused her additional distress along with inconvenience (for example in having to query why 
her dispute was closed). However, in deciding what is fair compensation I have noted that 
Santander has apologised to Mrs I for aspects of its customer service - which goes toward 
remedying matters.
Putting things right
I think the £75 Santander says it has paid Mrs I is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs I recently questioned if she has been paid this by Santander. In its initial response to 
Mrs I Santander says it credited to a specific account (and gave the last 4 digits). However, if 
transpires that Santander has not paid this then it should do so. However, it doesnt need to 
do anything more for the reasons given above.My final decision
To the extent that it has not done so already Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs I the £75 
compensation in respect of its customer service failings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman