DRN-4221596
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her accounts without notice and 
retained her money.
What happened
Mrs O says that following the closure of her accounts in 2021, she has not been able to 
access any of the funds. She says that Barclays now alleges that almost £5,000 was 
withdrawn on 16 September 2022, but that isnt the case, and she wasnt even in the country 
at the time. Mrs O adds that the account closures caused her to miss payments to a health 
insurer that covered her daughter whilst studying in the UK.
Barclays says it gave Mrs O 62 days notice about the closure of her accounts and the funds 
were subsequently moved to a holding account. However, it says Mrs O should have been 
able to access the money without proof of funds and for the inconvenience this caused it 
offered her £300 as a gesture of apology. Barclays adds that Mrs O can access the funds in 
branch with two forms of identification and it notes that you have been able to access 
£4,978.30 from branch on 16 September. It also explained how Mrs O can access the 
money if she is not in the UK.
Mrs O did not accept this offer and says she did not make the withdrawal.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that Barclays 
had made a commercial decision to close Mrs Os accounts and provided her with 62 days 
notice to arrange alternative banking and withdraw her funds. Our adjudicator did not 
consider Barclays had done anything wrong in that respect but did acknowledge Barclays 
had offered Mrs O £300 for incorrectly asking for evidence she was entitled to the funds. He 
was satisfied the offer was fair and reasonable.
Mrs Os representative responded to say, in summary, that, Mrs O could not visit the UK 
during the time in question due to the covid restrictions and so Barclays should not have 
closed her accounts with just 62 days notice during that time. It adds that Mrs O sought 
legal advice out of necessity as she was unable to access her money despite many months 
of fruitless emails.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A bank is entitled to choose to whom it offers banking services and so I cannot say Barclays 
did anything wrong when it made a commercial decision to close Mrs Os accounts. Im 
satisfied it was entitled to do so and I can see it gave Mrs O sufficient notice to make 
alternative arrangements before doing so.
That said, I understand her representatives argument that the covid virus was still causing 
travel restrictions and Barclays could have reasonably foreseen Mrs O may not have been in 
the UK for the duration of the 62 days notice period.
I have considered what that means for Mrs O and, as she has said she doesnt wish the 
accounts to be reopened, I will focus on the lack of access to her money. Barclays has 
confirmed that £4,978.30 was transferred into the holding account and it is has now 
acknowledged that the wording of the final response was confusing. I have seen the relevant 
bank statements and Im satisfied that Mrs O is still owed £4,978.30. Barclays has said that if 
Mrs O is no longer in the country and physically unable to visit a branch, it would need her to 
provide her identification via email and details of where the funds are to be transferred to.
Im satisfied that this process has been made more difficult than it needed to be for Mrs O, 
and, at times, Barclayss communications have been less than ideal. However, I consider the 
£300 that was offered to Mrs O was fair and reasonable and in line with the level of 
compensation this service would ordinarily recommend.
Whilst I acknowledge the reasons that Mrs O enlisted the help of a legal representative, I 
dont find this was required to resolve the complaint and, as such, I cannot agree that 
Barclays should reimburse those fees.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs O £300, as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman