DRN-3356639
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Arrow Global Limited defaulted her account even though she was 
over-paying her payment arrangement.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account that was sold to Arrow.
Ms S arranged an affordable repayment plan with Arrow. She then tried to pay more when 
she could.
A number of times, Ms S missed her calendar repayment but then paid enough to clear the 
arrears, cover her next scheduled payment, and add extra on top.
Arrow defaulted the account. Ms S complained. She pointed out that Arrows servicing 
website said she was paid up until 2027.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They worked out 
that Ms S had clearly paid more than she was due to under the payment plan, even if shed 
done so on an ad hoc basis, so she wasnt behind. They noted that Arrow had spoken to 
Ms S about her payments and done a review, but didnt tell her that her payment pattern 
might lead to a default until after the termination notice. She recommended that Arrow 
remove the default and reinstate the account.
Arrow didnt agree. They re-sent the same information as before. The complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms S sometimes missed her scheduled payments, since she paid in such 
an ad hoc fashion. But each time she missed a payment, then would then pay enough to 
cover any missed payments, and her next payment, and extra on top. As far as I can see, 
Ms S never actually got into enough arrears that would normally justify a default  she not 
only kept making up any missed payments, she also got well ahead on her schedule too.
Indeed, by the time of the default Ms S had paid Arrow about £70, when under her 
arrangement she was only due to have paid them about £30 so far.
It seems pretty unreasonable for Arrow to have treated Ms S as being in substantial arrears 
or in severe breach of her arrangement, when shed actually paid more than double what 
she was due to under the agreed arrangement.
I appreciate it may not be convenient for Arrow to receive payments on such an ad hoc 
basis, rather than every calendar month. But I cant see that they explained this clearly to 
Ms S before the termination notice, nor warned her that theyd look to default the account if 
she continued paying this way. As our investigator pointed out, Arrow even did a review with 
Ms S shortly before the termination notice, where she said she wanted to continue doing 
what she was doing now and overpay where she could. But I cant see that they warned her 
then. Their first conversation about this appears to have only been after the termination 
notice. And that doesnt seem fair.
So I agree with our investigator that Arrow didnt provide Ms S with a reasonable opportunity 
to prevent the default, and I find the default to have been unfair in this particular situation  
not least given that Ms S was actually well ahead of her payment schedule. As things stand, 
I understand that Arrows servicing website now says that Ms S is all paid up until 2028.
The most sensible solution would be to remove the default, and reinstate the account and 
payment plan. Ms S should then make sure she makes her scheduled payments every 
calendar month from now on. She may want to use a standing order or direct debit to help 
make sure the payments go out on schedule.
Putting things right
I direct Arrow Global Limited to:
Remove the default from Ms Ss credit file, along with any related negative 
information; and-
Reinstate the account and payment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ss complaint, and direct Arrow Global Limited to 
put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman