DRN-2982943
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is not accurately displaying fund prices on its 
online trading platform. He wants Barclays to show the purchase price including any fee 
reductions and waivers. He would like it to pay compensation to all its consumers and to 
compensate him for his time in bringing this complaint.
What happened
Mr V uses Barclays to trade funds on an execution only basis. Barclays has negotiated 
preferential fee structures with the managers of some funds, for example to waive upfront 
charges that are otherwise 5%. He says the purchase prices displayed by Barclays on its 
trading platform do not take these fee reductions into account. As such he feels the prices 
are misrepresented.
Barclays said it was confident it was proving accurate and sufficient information for 
consumers. It apologised for the length of time it took to reply to Mr Vs complaint and 
offered to pay him £150 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that Barclays had made a mistake.
Mr V didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The key investor information document (KIID) for each fund says that an upfront fee is 
applicable, which is wrong.
This service should review all of the fund holdings to form a fair view.
It is wrong, and misleading, for Barclays to display a buy price which is impacted by a fee 
when the fee doesnt apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to understand that the ombudsman service isnt the industry regulator. That 
means we dont set the rules for financial businesses or police the industry to make sure 
those rules are followed. And we dont have the power to fine or punish businesses. These 
are all issues dealt with by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is 
instead to consider individual disputes and reach an outcome I think is fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances of each. So I cant make a finding on how Barclays has decided 
to display information on its trading platform. And its not our role to review or investigate this 
in any detail. I can decide whether I think Barclays has treated Mr V fairly and reasonably 
and if its made a mistake which it needs to put right.
Our investigator set out in some detail information about the fees which led to Mr Vs 
complaint. I wont repeat that again here. I agree with our investigator that Barclays provided 
Mr V with enough information about the pricing of funds, and the fees applicable, for him to 
make an informed decision on whether and when to trade. Barclays makes the KIIDs 
available on its website, but these are provided by the individual fund managers and 
I wouldnt expect Barclays to amend these in any way.
Mr V said he may have made different decisions if the fund prices had taken account of the 
fee discounts. Although hes not provided any specific detail about what he would have done 
differently. As Ive found Barclays provided Mr V with enough information about the prices 
and fees, it follows I cant award compensation for any loss Mr V feels he might have made.
Barclays offered to pay Mr V £150 as a gesture of goodwill because of the time it took to 
respond to his complaint. This offer is still available to Mr V should he decide to accept my 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr V £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman