DRN-2648085
The complaint
Mr P complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly blocked his account and asked him to go to a 
branch during the coronavirus pandemic. He wants HSBC to unblock the account, apologise, 
and pay compensation for the inconvenience and loss of opportunity he experienced by not 
being able to access his funds.
What happened
Mr P holds a current account with HSBC. There wasnt activity on the account for some time. 
So, HSBC wrote to Mr P in early 2020 to let him know the account would be made dormant if 
it remained inactive. Once dormant, Mr P would not be able to use the account unless he 
contacted HSBC. Mr P didnt contact HSBC and the account was made dormant.
Mr P says he discovered the letter later on that year. He rang HSBC. HSBC said it couldnt 
allow Mr P access to his account until he went to a branch with up to date identification and 
proof of address. Mr P thought this was unnecessary. He said HSBC should verify his 
identity by other means. He had passed telephone security and risked contracting 
coronavirus if he went to a branch.
Mr P complained to HSBC. HSBC rejected his complaint. It repeated it needed him to go to 
branch because it needed to see up to date identification and proof of address. It said its 
branches were adhering to social distancing and only a small number of people were 
allowed into a branch at any one time.
 
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. An investigator decided not to uphold the 
complaint. They said:
HSBC is deemed an essential service under the government guidelines. So, HSBC 
kept its branches open to serve the public. HSBC had provided evidence to show its 
branches followed the guidelines on social distancing.
Although Mr P disagreed he should have to go to a branch during the pandemic, 
there was nothing to indicate HSBC ought to have treated Mr P differently based on 
his individual circumstances.
Mr P disagreed. He thinks HSBC is unreasonable by requiring him to attend a branch when 
he can provide what it wants without attending in person.
Mr P asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC has important legal and regulatory responsibilities. One of its responsibilities is to, 
where possible, protect customers from falling victim to financial harm, especially fraud and 
scams. So, to these ends, it needs to monitor accounts and the activity on them.
Im satisfied HSBCs request to check Mr Ps identification and proof of address in branch 
was reasonable. It was a proportionate response to ensure his account was protected. The 
account had been inactive for some time, which can represent a greater risk to banks. So, 
its understandable why HSBC wanted to verify Mr Ps identity through more enhanced 
means - particularly when it had attempted to contact him previously.
The coronavirus pandemic has been a very difficult time for a large number of people. And I 
agree with Mr P on how important it is to adhere to government guidelines. But in Mr Ps 
circumstances, what HSBC asked him to do was reasonable. The request was made for an 
important purpose. And Mr P hasnt provided evidence to show why HSBC ought to have 
treated him differently to any other customer in his situation.
 
HSBC provided evidence to show it has strong processes in place which adhere to 
government rules on social distancing. So, while HSBC cannot guarantee there is no risk, I 
dont find this is a sufficient reason to override the purpose behind what it asked Mr P to do.
Mr P said he is also complaining about his account being blocked in the first place. But when 
he brought his complaint to our service he said he understood why his account was blocked. 
Instead he wanted to complain about not being able to provide identification and proof of 
address by means other than going to a branch.
Im satisfied HSBCs original decision to block Mr Ps account was a proportionate response 
to meet its legal and regulatory obligations. The letter HSBC sent made clear what the 
account going dormant would mean. And, although Mr P says he only became aware of the 
letter after the account was dormant, I havent seen HSBC made an error when it was sent. 
So, I dont find HSBC did anything wrong.
For the reasons I have given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decisionI have decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman