DRN-3603524
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds application of a policy excess to her 
private medical insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R had private medical insurance cover through Aviva. Although Mrs R says she didnt 
have an excess, I see that she did have a £200 excess payable per policy year. 
Mrs R thought she took out a new policy in April 2020. Weve clarified this with Aviva, and it 
has confirmed that she made a change to her existing policy at this time (by increasing the 
excess to £5,000), but she did not take out a new policy.
Ive listened to the relevant calls and Im satisfied that Mrs R wanted to increase her excess 
to £5,000 to reduce the cost of her premiums. I therefore find that it was appropriate for 
Aviva to say it would apply the excess to a claim, as this was in line with the policy terms. 
Unfortunately, Mrs R mistakenly thought the excess would only apply to new conditions. 
However, the policy makes it clear that an excess is applicable per policy year, even if a 
claim or course of treatment continues from one policy year to the next. Given that this was 
also the case when Mrs R had an excess of £200 per policy year, I wouldnt have expected 
Aviva to have specifically brought this to Mrs Rs attention when she increased her excess. 
Mrs R has a cardiac condition which requires long-term monitoring. It is not in dispute that 
she developed this condition as a consequence of her treatment for cancer. 
Long-term monitoring of a condition is excluded from cover as it falls under the policy 
definition of a chronic condition. The exclusion does have an exception for treatment for 
cancer. Given that Mrs Rs cardiac condition cannot be said to be treatment for cancer, Im 
satisfied that Aviva was correct to say this would not fall under the exception to the 
exclusion. The exclusion makes it clear that Aviva does apply the exclusion to 
consequences of, or conditions related to cancer treatment.
Aviva may have caused Mrs R some confusion by stating that it had linked the cardiac 
investigations to her cancer claim. It seems it did this so that a new claim did not need to be 
set up for her cardiac condition, and therefore her no claims discount (NCD) wouldnt be 
impacted. I accept this could have been made clearer to Mrs R. Nonetheless, I see that 
Aviva did make it clear in the same email that the policy wouldnt cover the ongoing 
monitoring of Mrs Rs cardiac condition. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman