The complaint 
Ms R complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat), lent irresponsibly to her. 
Background 
Ms R borrowed three loans from MoneyBoat. The lending history is set out below: 
Loan Date taken 
outDate repaidPlanned 
instalmentsPrincipal
1 05/06/2019 29/07/2019 4 £400.00
2 07/08/2019 06/09/2019 4 £400.00
3 07/11/2019 Outstanding 6 £500.00
I understand there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 3 and that Ms R is now 
making repayments towards that borrowing. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should have been upheld. MoneyBoat disagreed with 
that view. It said that it would have been unrealistic for an underwriter to review every line of 
Ms Rs credit report and that its customers expected it to make quick decisions on their 
applications. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
DRN-1755519the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Ms R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint. I can see that when she applied for 
her first loan, MoneyBoat asked some questions about her income and expenditure. It also 
undertook a fairly thorough credit check. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing that credit check and can see that Ms R appeared to be in 
some financial trouble. She had opened eight new credit accounts in the preceding six 
months and had 21 active credit accounts. She had also defaulted on one of her credit 
commitments in the 12 months before applying for loan 1. She had also withdrawn cash from 
a credit card, which could also show financial difficulties. 
MoneyBoat argues that it is not reasonable for its underwriters to study the credit report line 
by line. However, if MoneyBoat has acquired information, I would expect it to be considered 
before a decision to lend is made. In any event, the information I have referred to above is 
set out in tabulated form on pages 1 and 2 of the credit report. I do not consider an in-depth 
review of the document would have been necessary to ascertain that information. And for 
the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that the tabulated information within that credit 
report should have been enough for MoneyBoat to look more closely at Ms Rs financial 
circumstances. 
Had it done so, I think it would have seen that Ms R already had three outstanding short-
term loans when she applied for loan 1. This indicates she was reliant on this type of 
borrowing and that her application to MoneyBoat wasnt to meet a temporary need. Looking 
at the information in respect of loans 2 and 3, I cant say that Ms Rs circumstances had 
improved. I note that she took out further borrowing with MoneyBoat shortly after she repaid 
her previous borrowing and so I think its most likely that she continued to depend on short-
term borrowing when she took out loans 2 and 3. 
With all of this in mind, I agree with our adjudicator and I uphold the complaint in respect of 
loans 1, 2 and 3. MoneyBoat will need to take action to put things right. 
Putting things right 
As I said above, MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Ms R loans 1 to 3. 
It appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 3. If that is the case and 
MoneyBoat has sold those outstanding debts, it should buy them back if it is able to do so 
and then take the steps set out below. If it is not able to buy the debts back, it must liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results set out below: A) MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms R towards
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including
anything it has already refunded.
B) MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms
R which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms R originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms R as though they had been
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms R having made
overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts calculated in A
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loans.  If this results in a surplus
then the surplus must be paid to Ms R. However, if there is still an outstanding balance,
MoneyBoat must agree to an affordable repayment plan with Ms R.
E) MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Rs credit file in
relation to loans 1 to 3.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms R a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman