DRN-2226929
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited trading as The 
Insurance Emporium turned down a claim under his wedding insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a wedding insurance policy on 12 January 2020 to cover his daughters 
wedding that was due to take place later in the year.
Not long after Mr S cancelled the wedding as there had been a change of heart between the 
bride and groom. The wedding venue refused to give Mr S a refund as they are in 
administration, so he made a claim under the policy.
The Insurance Emporium turned down the claim saying that a change of heart between the 
bride and groom wasnt covered. Mr S said that the reason for the claim, and the failure to 
get a refund of his deposit, was because the wedding venue had gone into administration. 
The Insurance Emporium considered this and said that because the wedding venue had 
gone into administration 5 days after Mr S took out the policy this also wasnt covered.
Mr S remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. She thought The Insurance Emporium had acted 
reasonably when considering all of the information and assessing the claim. Mr S made 
clear that his claim was being made due to the financial failure of the supplier to give him a 
refund as his contract with them said they should. Our investigator listened to this but still 
thought that it was correct to turn down the claim. Mr S disagreed so the complaint has come 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start I think its important to be clear that Im only looking at the actions of The Insurance 
Emporium when considering the claim, and not the actions of the wedding venue. Mr S has 
raised issues with how the wedding venue has acted through what has happened, but this 
isnt something I can comment on. Its also clear to me, and understandably so, that this has 
been a difficult and emotional time for Mr S. 
Mr S has provided a lot of information about his complaint, including about the reasons why 
the claim was turned down and how he interprets the policy. I want to reassure Mr S that Ive 
read and considered everything hes provided, even if I do not mention it in detail. Ive 
condensed all of the information into a brief summary which reflects the informal nature of 
our service. 
When turning down the claim The Insurance Emporium applied a policy exclusion which 
says Either party deciding not to go ahead with the marriage as agreed isnt covered. 
Mr S says his claim is for the refusal of the wedding venue to conform with my valid request 
for a return of my deposit. Which is true; he has been refused a refund of his deposit. 
But the reason Mr S asked the wedding venue for a refund is due to change of heart 
between the bride and groom. So whilst the refusal of a refund is the problem, that problem 
only came about because of something thats excluded under the policy. I dont think itd be 
right for The Insurance Emporium to ignore this, so Im happy the exclusion was applied 
correctly.
The Insurance Emporium also applied an exclusion which says Any incident giving rise to a 
claim occurring within 14 days of the commencement date/time shown in your policy 
schedule due to bankruptcy, liquidation or failure to meet contractual obligations of any pre 
booked supplier isnt covered. 
The wedding venue went into administration 5 days after Mr S took the policy out. Because 
of this The Insurance Emporium say this exclusion applies; but Mr S disagrees. 
The wedding venue went into administration and hasnt, at this time, gone into liquidation or 
been made bankrupt. But they have, as Mr S agrees, failed to meet their contractual 
obligation i.e. give him a refund as the contract says they should. The reason for this failure 
is because they are in administration. Entering administration is the incident that gives rise to 
the failure to meet contractual obligations and therefore the claim. That happened within 14 
days of Mr S taking out the policy. 
Mr S says that the incident date should be when his request for a refund was refused, but I 
dont think thats the case. Had the wedding venue not been in administration Mr S wouldve 
been entitled to a full refund at the time he requested it, and Ive seen no reason why this 
wouldnt have happened. Its the wedding venue going into administration that stopped the 
refund being issued and therefore meeting their contractual obligations, so Im happy the 
exclusion was applied correctly.
Mr S told our investigator hes only claiming under Section 2 of the policy which covers 
financial failure of a supplier, and not Section 1 of the policy where the change of heart 
exclusion appears. However when The Insurance Emporium, and indeed any insurer, deals 
with a claim it does so by reviewing all of the policy terms. Its not possible for Mr S to ask for 
some policy terms to not be considered. As Ive explained above, I think its clear that a 
change of heart was the reason for Mr S cancelling the wedding and asking for a refund, so 
its fair this is taken into consideration. 
Having looked at all the information Im satisfied The Insurance Emporium considered the 
evidence in a fair and reasonable way when turning down the claim.
Thats not to say that Mr S hasnt been put to some trouble by what happened; he clearly 
has, and theres also been some cost. However, what happened, unfortunately for Mr S, isnt 
covered under the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman