DRN-3497422
The complaint
Mr P represents the estate of Mrs T and complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold Mrs T a Flexible Protection Plan (FPP) for funeral protection in 
2007.
What happened
The late Mrs T visited a local branch of Halifax in October 2007. Mrs T wanted to arrange life 
cover to pay for her funeral when she died. Mrs T attended the first meeting with her late 
husband but only sought advice from Halifax about life cover for herself. Halifax 
recommended an FPP. The policy had an initial guaranteed death benefit of £3,910 for the 
first 10 years and a monthly premium of £20. At the 10-year anniversary the policy could be 
extended for a further 10 years. As well as the guaranteed death benefit the policy had a 
savings part to it. Mrs T chose to extend the policy at the first 10-year anniversary and the 
guaranteed death benefit of £3,910 remained, as did the monthly premium.
When Mrs T passed in 2021, Halifax assessed the claim and said they would pay out the 
guaranteed death benefit of £3,910 less a debt on the policy. This debt was related to the 
health of the late Mrs T when she took out the policy. Instead of increasing the premium, 
Halifax reduced the level of cover and referred to this as a debt to the policy. Halifax thought 
this was more suitable because Mrs T only had a budget of £20 per month for life cover.
The representatives of the estate of Mrs T made a claim on the policy. Halifax told them the 
guaranteed death benefit less the policy debt would be payable. Mr P complained to Halifax 
that the policy should have matured in 2007 and Mrs T would never have taken out an 
investment linked policy. Mr P complained the death benefit of £3,910 should be paid as 
there was nothing in the documents Mrs T received telling her the death benefit would be 
reduced by the debt.
Halifax provided a final response to the complaint in April 2021 and agreed to pay out the 
guaranteed death benefit of £3,910. Halifax accepted that letters theyd sent to Mrs T over 
the years, including the annual review letters and 10-year maturity letter, were mis-leading 
as to the amount of life cover payable if a claim was made. Not all the letters they sent 
included details about the debt provision. Halifax didnt uphold other complaints that the 
policy had been mis-sold or that theyd mislead Mrs T about the policy having an investment 
element when she purchased it. Mr P didnt agree with Halifax and brought the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought paying the full claim value was the 
right thing for Halifax to do. But the Investigator thought Halifax hadnt mis-sold the policy as 
it provided the life cover Mrs T wanted at the time. Mr P didnt agree and asked that an 
Ombudsman decides the complaint. It has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr P, the representative of Mrs Ts estate, will be disappointed with my final 
decision, but I dont consider Halifax need to take any further actions. I will now explain why.
Guaranteed sum assured
The late Mrs T told Halifax she had £20 per month to spend on protection for her funeral 
costs when she passed. This is recorded in the fact-find when Mrs T first met Halifax in 
October 2007, and in separate meetings on 5 and 10 November. On 5 November Halifax 
handed Mrs T a suitability letter confirming the guaranteed death benefit of the policy was 
£3,910. Halifax agree theyd not made it clear to Mrs T and her family the level of cover had 
been reduced by the debt provision. Theyve since paid out the full £3,910 death benefit. 
Mrs Ts estate received the life cover Mrs T reasonably believed Halifax would have 
provided when she passed. Halifax has now paid out the full level of cover. And, as I 
consider this to be a fair and reasonable remedy, I wont be asking Halifax to take any 
further action in respect of this part of the complaint. 
Sale of the family protection plan
Mr P says the estate of Mrs T doesnt believe she would have purchased an investment 
linked policy, and that Halifax mislead Mrs T when recommending the policy.
Halifax had three meetings with Mrs T about the policy, the first of which was also attended 
by her late husband. Ive also seen the suitability letter Halifax say they handed to Mrs T and 
the key features and illustration they provided at the same time. Although I accept Mr P has 
strong views Mrs T wouldnt have understood the investment element of the policy because 
shed never invested before, I dont agree this is likely to be the case. This is because the 
documents Ive seen, along with the notes on the fact find, made it reasonably clear how the 
policy worked. In my opinion, there was enough information contained within these 
documents for Mrs T to make an informed decision. There were three separate meetings 
and Halifax issued a suitability letter before the final meeting on 10 November. So, I dont 
consider Mrs T was put under any pressure to take out the policy and she had some time to 
reflect on the decision she made.
From the documents Mr P has provided I can see Mrs T already held a with-profits policy. It 
had a low basic sum assured plus a possibility of a further amount based on the bonuses 
declared on the providers investment returns. So, Im persuaded its likely Mrs T would have 
been open to taking the FPP with Halifax as it too had an investment element to it, albeit she 
was purchasing units in a selection of funds rather than participating in the profits made by 
the policy provider. The funds were managed for her by Halifax, so I dont consider a high 
level of investment experience was required in this regard. And the funds Halifax were 
managing for Mrs T appear to be in line with her low to cautious attitude to investment risk.
The crux of the complaint seems to resolve around whether the policy was suitable for the 
late Mrs T. Mr P says that extending the policy meant Mrs T paid more into the policy than 
she needed to. I dont agree the evidence supports this assertion and I will now explain why.
Mrs T wanted life cover for her funeral costs. I accept there are other types of policies 
available, but that doesnt mean the policy recommended by Halifax was unsuitable. The 
type of policy recommended provided the life cover Mrs T wanted immediately and for a 
premium she could afford. The aim of the policy was to build up a savings element so that as 
the cost of life cover increased, as Mrs T got older, the investment part would mitigate any 
premium increase. In this case, the policy was arranged on what is known as standard cover. This means that its more likely the investment returns would help fund future cover 
and keep any premium increase to a minimum, if any. I consider it reasonable that Halifax 
recommended a standard level of cover, rather than a maximum level of cover, as the latter 
would mean premiums would more likely increase as Mrs T got older. So, taking this into 
account, I dont consider the policy recommended by Halifax was unsuitable for Mrs T.
I consider Mrs T reasonably understood the type of policy she had purchased and that she 
had time to reflect on her decision at the time. And, just as importantly, its likely she had 
further time to reflect on her options at the 10-year anniversary. Mr P says Mrs T wouldnt 
have understood the policy relied on an investment element as shed never invested before. 
However, as Ive explained I consider its more likely she was content to take on some 
investment risk to obtain the level of cover she wanted. There is quite a detailed discussion 
recorded in the fact find, and investment risk is clearly explained within the suitability letter 
Halifax handed to Mrs T before the policy was purchased. So, on the balance of probability, 
Im persuaded Mrs T was comfortable with an investment element to the policy as long as 
the funds she invested in were low to cautious risk. 
At the 10-year anniversary Halifax wrote to Mrs T and explained the options open to her. 
Prior to that, Halifax had sent Mrs T regular annual review letters that also explained future 
premiums may need to increase. The 10-year review letter clearly laid out the options for 
Mrs T. These were to take the benefits now (any savings element that had built up) or 
extend the policy for another 10-years. Mrs T chose to extend the policy, which in my 
opinion, supports that the most important thing for Mrs T at that time was to maintain the life 
cover to pay for her funeral.
The estate of Mrs T feels it was unfair Mrs T had to pay additional premiums after the 10-
year anniversary. There are other polices that may work differently to the one Mrs T was 
sold, but the policy Halifax sold was designed to be extended. And its more flexible than a 
10-year fixed term policy or a specific funeral plan policy that may not carry any benefits until 
a qualifying period has been completed. The FPP had no qualifying period. But, as Ive 
explained above, I consider Mrs T was reasonably aware of how the policy worked and that 
the investment element of the policy was designed to mitigate any future premium increase. 
In this case there were no premium increases up until the point when the claim was paid.
Mr P has pointed out that Mrs Ts intention in 2007 was to obtain extra cover on top of an 
existing policy Ive referred to above. Of course, I cant say what Mrs T told Halifax when she 
met them in 2007, but the fact find doesnt record another policy was in place, nor does it 
record Mrs T was spending any of her income on such a policy. I cant be certain if this is 
because Mrs T didnt tell Halifax, or Halifax didnt record it. However, I consider its more 
likely Mrs T didnt tell Halifax about this policy. It hadnt been recorded as being mentioned at 
any of the three meetings Mrs T had with Halifax. And, it wasnt mentioned in the fact find or 
the suitability letter provided to Mrs T at the time of the sale. Ive not seen that Mrs T raised 
any concerns at this time, so I think it would be unfair for me to conclude Halifax were aware 
of the existing policy at the time of the sale.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax didnt mis-sell the Flexible Protection Policy to the late Mrs T, and I wont be asking 
them to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 Paul Lawton
Ombudsman