DRN-2421208
The complaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the £150 she lost when she 
fell victim to a scam.  
Nationwide says its not liable as Miss M unwittingly authorised the payments. It says it didnt 
consider the transactions unusual or suspicious, and it cant retrieve the money loaded onto 
the gift cards. 
What happened
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the scam occurred as follows: 
Around May 2020, Miss M believed she was applying for a loan through HMRC  but was in 
fact dealing with a scammer. She was told she had to pay a deposit of £450 to release the 
borrowing (£2,500). She explained she couldnt afford that. Instead, it was agreed that shed 
purchase Amazon gift cards totalling £150. She bought these from a supermarket using her 
Nationwide debit card on 6 May 2020. She was then tricked into handing over the details 
needed to use the gift cards to the scammer, still believing that she was speaking to HMRC. 
But afterwards, she didnt receive the loan and was unable to make further contact.  
 
Realising that something had gone wrong, Miss M reported the matter to Nationwide on 
7 May 2020. She thought it should refund the transactions  but it refused. It said shed 
authorised the payments so was liable for them. 
Miss M referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt think the transactions were 
so unusual or out of the ordinary that they should have raised Nationwides suspicions and 
caused it to block the transactions or complete further checks. He also explained it couldnt 
recover the money loaded onto the gift cards. But Miss M has asked to escalate her case, 
noting that she reported the incident to Nationwide the following day. So Im making the final 
decision on how this complaint should be resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Miss M, who has clearly been the victim of a cruel 
scam. But having carefully considered what happened, Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly 
and reasonably in processing the payment and in its subsequent dealings with Miss M about 
this matter. So I dont think it should be held liable for her loss. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Miss M authenticated the transactions  for two gift cards for £100 and 
£50 respectively  and consented to them by using her card to pay for them in store. Under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the standard terms and conditions of accounts, 
firms are expected to execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. So in 
the first instance, although its not in dispute that Miss M made the transaction due to the 
scam, shes presumed liable for the loss. 
However, taking account of the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time, I consider that it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide to have:
monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
maintained systems to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things), 
particularly given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than even commercial customers; and 
taken additional steps or made additional checks in some circumstances  
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing a payment; or in some 
cases, to have declined to make a payment altogether in order to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
If Nationwide breached its duty of care by not acting adequately or at all on information that 
would or should have triggered fraud alerts and systems required for the proper conduct of 
business, Id need to consider whether it should be held liable for Miss Ms loss. In other 
words, whether any failure to intervene was the dominant, effective cause of the loss for 
which compensation is now sought. 
In this instance, the transactions Miss M thinks Nationwide should refund are two payments 
for £100 and £50. As mentioned, these were used to purchase Amazon gift cards. The 
transactions were authorised by Miss M in a supermarket which her bank statements show 
she regularly shops at. Additionally, the value of the transactions so large as to be inherently 
suspicious in the context of supermarket transactions. There were other payments going in 
and out of Miss Ms account of a similar size around that time. Overall, I dont think the 
activity was so unusual or uncharacteristic that it ought to have altered Nationwide to the risk 
that Miss M was falling victim to a scam. So in the circumstances, I dont think it breached its 
legal or regulatory duties towards her when processing the payments without enquiry or 
delay.
Ive gone on to consider Nationwides actions when Miss M reported the scam. I appreciate 
that she notified Nationwide the next day. But by then, shed already authorised the 
transactions. The money had already been loaded onto the gift cards, and Miss M has told 
us that shed already passed the details needed to spend this to the scammers. So I dont 
think Nationwide could have reasonably done more to help retrieve the money at that point. I 
understand that it did direct her to try speaking to Amazon and/or the supermarket  who 
may have been able to, for example, monitor or block the cards (Miss M had already 
contacted the police and HMRC). Beyond that, I cant see what more it could reasonably do. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss M, but Im not persuaded Nationwide could or 
should have identified the transactions as an unusual or uncharacteristic scam trigger. And 
Im not persuaded it could have recovered the money when Miss M told it what had 
happened. Ultimately, the loss was caused by the action of criminals manipulating her, not 
the wrongful actions by the bank at the time of executing the payments that she authorised.
For these reasons, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Nationwide to reimburse 
Miss M for the money she lost due to the scam. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman