DRN-3691859
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs B say HSBC UK Bank PLC mis-sold them PPI on their mortgage in February 
1996. 
What happened
Our adjudicator considered this complaint but felt that the policy was not mis-sold. Mr and 
Mrs B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of these policies on our
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case
Ive decided the policy was not mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
HSBC say the optional nature of the policy wouldve been made clear to Mr and Mrs B 
before the sale was concluded. And from what weve seen of these types of sales in the 
past, the customer wouldve usually had to complete some paperwork making an active 
selection in favour of the PPI before it was added to their account. Unfortunately, due to the 
length of time thats passed there isnt much evidence from the time of the sale. But based 
on what we already know about these types of sales, and in the absence of any stronger 
evidence to the contrary, I think its likely Mr and Mrs B wouldve been informed the policy 
was optional and they wouldve chosen to take it out by some form of active selection in 
favour of the policy. 
As Ive said, there isnt a lot of evidence available from the time. But our adjudicator 
considered the information we do have and felt this was an advised sale. Neither party has 
responded to disagree with this point, so I have also considered this to have been an 
advised sale. 
This means HSBC had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs B - and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and
They seem to have had a need for this type of cover.
Mr and Mrs B say the PPI wasnt of any use and shouldnt have been sold to them as they 
had young children at the time, and money was tight. Ive thought about what theyve said, 
but I think the policy wouldve been useful for them, particularly in their situation. I say this 
because Mrs B says she wouldve received six months sick pay from her employer, and 
Mr B wouldve received one month of sick pay. And theyve said they didnt have any other 
savings or insurances they couldve relied upon. 
So, I think they wouldve found things very difficult if either of them, or both of them, were 
unable to work. The PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim. And this wouldve been in addition to 
their employee sick pay entitlement. And I think they wouldve found such benefits useful, 
especially as they had a family to look after at the time as well. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs B about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its likely they chose to take out the policy and for the same reasons I 
think the policy was suitable for them, I think it wouldve been useful had something gone 
wrong. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover.
So overall, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For all the reasons outlined above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2022.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman