DRN-2837373
The complaint
Miss N complains that a fixed sum loan agreement was mis-sold to her by 3J Finance
Limited.
What happened
In October 2019, Miss N purchased an online education course for her child with a supplier
Ill call E. Miss N says a representative visited her house to discuss the course and this is
when the sale took place.
Miss N said she later discovered that she had entered into a fixed sum loan with 3J in order
to finance the course. Miss N says she was unaware she had entered into a loan with 3J and
that had she known she was taking out a loan, she never wouldve signed the documents for
this. Miss N also says she was in a Debt Relief Order (DRO) some time before taking out the
loan and that her financial situation was poor, so she wouldnt have been able to afford the
loan in any case. Miss N says she was working a zero hours contract at the time and that
she was on a low income.
The loan with 3J was for £3,874 payable by 59 monthly instalments of £64.56 followed by
one monthly payment (in month 60) of £64.96. Miss N paid E a £50 deposit and the total
cost of the cost of the course was £3,924.
3J said all the paperwork, which was electronically signed by Miss N at the time, was clear in
terms of the product Miss N was purchasing and the terms on which she was making that
purchase. 3J also said Miss N was provided with copies of the paperwork and that her 14
day cancellation rights were outlined in this.
Miss N remained unhappy with 3Js response, so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ns concerns. In summary, she said based on all the
information available, the loan had been misrepresented by E. Our investigator
acknowledged that all the paperwork was signed within two minutes of each other, therefore,
she didnt think it was reasonable Miss N had enough time to read the documents and
understand the product she had taken out.
3J disagreed. Ultimately, they said Miss N had signed a number of documents showing she
agreed to take out the loan. Therefore, they didnt think it was reasonable Miss N didnt
realise she was entering into an agreement. 3J also remain of the opinion that the loan was
affordable for Miss N. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
3J didnt sell Miss N the programme or the loan, but they have some responsibilities to Miss
N due to certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The
loan Miss N entered with 3J is regulated by this act, and there are two sections of the Act
which provide her with some protection  section 56 and section 75.
There is no need for me to go into great detail about how these sections operate, but in
summary, section 56 has the effect of making E the agent of 3J during the antecedent
negotiations leading up to Miss N entering into the loan agreement - beginning with the first
communication she received from E. In essence this means 3J can be held responsible for
the things E did or said during the sales process.
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Miss N to hold 3J liable for breaches of contract by E,
or misrepresentations made by E in relation to the purchase of the educational programme.
Miss N says she wasnt aware she was taking out a loan and thought that she had agreed to
pay on a monthly basis which she could cancel at any time. Miss N says she believes she
was misled into taking out the loan.
I appreciate 3J have provided a number of documents which they say were signed during
the process of selling the programme to Miss N. However, I havent considered further
whether or not Miss N was aware she was taking out a loan with 3J. I say this because I
dont think 3J should have given Miss N a loan in any event. Ill go on to explain why.
Miss N says she couldnt afford the loan due to her financial circumstances at the time. As
Miss N was applying for borrowing, 3J needed to complete reasonable and proportionate
checks to assess whether shed be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. The
FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) states repayments are sustainable if they are
made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Ns income and expenditure. Certain factors
might point to the fact that 3J should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that
any lending was sustainable for Miss N. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
the longer the term of the loan (because making repayments for an extended period 
of time represents more of an affordability risk, for example where a customers 
regular expenditure is similar to their income, a payment they make on a monthly 
basis may become unaffordable if their expenditure fluctuates).
3J havent been able to provide us with much information about the checks carried out at the
time. Instead, 3J have sent us a self-declaration form of affordability which says, I can
reasonably afford to pay £65 for the next 60 months as I earn in excess of £15,000 PA. This
form has an electronic tick to represent Miss Ns signature. 3J say this was then confirmed
again in another form. 3J say they also relied on Miss Ns credit file information and theyve
provided us with a copy of this.
Miss Ns credit file information doesnt show her as having recent or current financial
difficulties at the time the loan was taken out. However, from the information provided, I think
its reasonable to believe 3J were aware of Miss Ns previous financial difficulties which were
serious enough that she became insolvent using a process designed for those with minimal
assets and income  a DRO.
Additionally, Miss Ns credit file information shows she used her credit card to withdraw cash
in the last 12 months. I can also see Miss Ns credit card balance increased from 34% of her
limit to 85% of her limit in the three months prior to taking out the loan. This growing reliance
on credit suggests she was likely to have a higher regular expenditure than income.
I appreciate 3J have said Miss N confirmed in their forms that she could afford the loan. But Idont think its reasonable for 3J to have solely relied on this information. Having considered
the term of the loan and what 3J knew about Miss Ns financial circumstances, I currently
think it would have been proportionate for 3J to carry out more thorough checks to satisfy
themselves Miss N wouldve been able to afford the loan repayments over the term. I think
proportionate checks would have at least included asking Miss N questions about her
regular expenditure to determine how much disposable income she had and so they could
properly assess the risk that she would not be able to make her repayments sustainably.
As proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided to Miss N, I cant
say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely than
not that a proportionate check would have shown 3J it was wrong to enter into this
agreement with Miss N.
Miss N says she was working a zero hours contract at the time and was struggling financially
as she wasnt earning a consistent wage. Miss N has provided a copy of a payslip which
shows in one particular month she was paid £34.
Miss N has told us that Es representative asked to see her bank statements, and there was
a comment made to her about her low income. Miss N says she responded and asked if this
meant she couldnt apply for the course and the representative assured her this was fine.
Miss N has provided us with six months worth of bank statements prior to the loan being
taken out. Ive done a brief assessment of Miss Ns income and expenditure of three months
prior to October 2019  when the loan was taken out. From these I can see Miss Ns regular
outgoings were often more than her incomings and she didnt always have available funds at
the end of the month. As she couldnt consistently meet her existing financial commitments, I
think its highly unlikely she would have been able to afford to make her payments to 3J in a
sustainable way.
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more
likely than not have demonstrated that Miss N wasnt in a position repay to the loan
sustainably. In other words, I dont think Miss N would have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without undue difficulties, while meeting her reasonable existing
commitments and without having to borrow further.
Having thought about everything, I dont think 3J did enough to get a reasonable
understanding of whether Miss N would have been able to make any payments sustainably.
Had they done so, I think they would have discovered Miss N could not afford to take on the
additional commitment the loan repayments represented, and not agreed to lend to her. It
follows that I think 3J was wrong to agree the loan.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, I dont think the loan was affordable for Miss N. So, I think 3J should put
things right for her.
Miss N did not receive the loan funds so she hasnt benefited from the money directly. This
was paid to E and in return E agreed to provide Miss N and her child access to the
educational programme. I think it would be fair in the circumstances for Miss N to pay for any
benefit she and her child actually received from the programme, but she should not have to
pay anything else.
From what Miss N has told us, I understand her child was able to use the programme for a
few weeks at the beginning of the course, but then faced some technical difficulties which
she raised with E. I note the £50 deposit Miss N paid appears to have gone towards theoverall cost of the course. In the circumstances and taking into account the fact it appears
Miss Ns child got only a few weeks use out of the course, I think all she should pay is the
deposit. She shouldnt have to pay anything else.
Having thought about everything, Im minded to direct 3J to take the following actions:
Cancel the loan agreement with no further repayments to be made.
Refund Miss N any monthly payments she made towards the loan.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on any refunds due from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Miss Ns credit file and 
mark it as settled.
Arrange with Miss N for the return of any course materials and anything else she 
received under the contract (at no cost to her), and the ending of any other services 
supplied under the contract with E.
*If 3J Finance Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold
income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss N how much theyve taken off. They
should also provide Miss N with a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
3J acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but didnt respond with any further points 
for me to consider. Mrs N accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further points have been raised and no new information has been provided for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
 
Putting things right
For clarification, I require 3J Finance Limited to take the following actions:
Cancel the loan agreement with no further repayments to be made.
Refund Miss N any monthly payments she made towards the loan.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on any refunds due from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.*
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Miss Ns credit file and 
mark it as settled.
Arrange with Miss N for the return of any course materials and anything else she 
received under the contract (at no cost to her), and the ending of any other services 
supplied under the contract with E.
*If 3J Finance Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold
income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss N how much theyve taken off. They
should also provide Miss N with a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decisionFor reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Miss Ns complaint and I require 3J Finance 
Limited to take the actions set out in the putting things right section of this decision.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman