DRN-2777016
The complaint
Mr K complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (American 
Express) delayed in processing a refund.
What happened
Mr K has a credit card account with American Express. He had used the card to pay for 
flights which were subsequently cancelled. The airline refunded the cost of the flights to Mr 
Ks credit card in June 2020. This put his account in credit. So he asked American Express 
to transfer the credit balance to his bank account. Mr K says the refund was received into his 
credit card account in mid-June, but he didnt receive the funds into his bank account until 9 
July 2020. Mr K is unhappy about the time it took for the funds to be transferred to him and 
says it had a negative impact, as he couldnt use the money for other purchases during this 
time. He complained to American Express. 
American Express didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had actioned the refund in line with 
its usual policy. Mr K wasnt happy with this response, so he brought the complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt think American Express had acted unreasonably and didnt ask it to 
do anything. But Mr K didnt agree. He says that, if he paid his credit card bill late, American 
Express would charge him interest. So he thinks it should pay him compensation of £100 for 
the delay in transferring the credit balance to him. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
American Expresss internal guidance says that the timeframe for processing a credit 
balance refund is ten working days. American Express says that this time is needed because 
it has to validate the source of the funds and the receiving account. I think thats a 
reasonable explanation and a reasonable timeframe. 
American Express says that the airline confirmed the refund on 22 June 2020. The refund 
was posted to Mr Ks credit card account on 30 June 2020. This information is confirmed by 
Mr Ks credit card statement.
American Express says it set up a case on 1 July 2020 to refund the credit balance to Mr Ks 
bank account. As this was the day after the funds were posted to the credit card account, I 
dont find that there was any delay by American Express in initiating the refund to Mr K.
 
The credit balance refund was processed on 6 July 2020 and the funds left Mr Ks credit 
card account on this date, as confirmed by his statement. So Im satisfied that Mr Ks refund 
was actioned within the timeframe envisaged by American Expresss policy.
In conclusion, and based on the information available to me, Im satisfied that American 
Express acted in line with its usual policy for processing credit balance refunds. And I dont 
think the time it took to process Mr Ks refund was unreasonable.
I know Mr K feels strongly about his complaint and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I dont 
think American Express acted unfairly here, so Im not going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman