DRN-3004888
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) failed to process a transaction for a lottery 
ticket that wouldve won a prize if it had been successfully purchased. 
What happened
Mr C attempted to purchase a lottery ticket on 3 April 2021 using his Monzo card. He says 
he authorised the payment but that it didnt go through, so he tried a further four times but it 
wouldnt work, so he was unable to purchase the ticket.
Mr C complained as he said he had picked winning numbers that were chosen in the lottery 
draw, which meant he wouldve won £1,750 had the payment been successful. Monzo said it 
wasnt responsible for the payment error because it was successfully processed on its end 
but didnt go through on the merchants end. So it didnt consider it was liable to have to 
cover any of Mr Cs losses.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt consider that it was Monzos error 
that resulted in the ticket not being purchased, so she didnt think they had to do anything to 
put things right. Mr C disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Monzo has explained that the merchant (in this case, the National Lottery) requested 
the payment to go through 3D Secure verification, which provides an extra layer of 
security for online transactions and ensures it is the account holder that is making the 
payment. It has said that its systems show that the verification was successful, but 
that the merchant didnt redirect the transaction back to their website when Mr C was 
attempting to make the payment on 3 April 2021. 
So Im not satisfied there has been any error on Monzos part here, as there was 
nothing the bank could have done differently when the error lay with the merchant 
failing to redirect the payment after the 3DS Secure verification had been completed. 
I understand that Mr C feels Monzo should have notified him that the transaction had 
been declined, but I dont think the bank has done anything wrong in this respect, as 
it didnt receive any such notification from the merchant, and neither did it receive a 
request to hold the money. So it seems that Mr Cs dispute here ought to be directed 
towards the merchant, but Im afraid this isnt something this service would be able to 
assist with given theyre not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I understand that Mr C also raised concerns regarding Monzos handling of his 
complaint and the customer service he received after raising his concerns, for which 
Monzo has offered compensation. However, given that complaint handling does not 
constitute a regulated activity, it is not something that falls within the remit of this 
service to consider. So Im unable to comment on any of these aspects of Mr Cs 
complaint.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, and Im sorry to hear about the 
difficult time he has gone through prior to purchasing the lottery ticket. But Im not persuaded 
that Monzo has done anything wrong in these circumstances, so I wont be asking them to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman