DRN-3051895
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim she made on her travel 
insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Ms F had a holiday abroad booked for 22 March 2020. On 11 March 2020 the World 
Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global pandemic. A few days later 
the country where Ms F was due to visit closed all non-essential public spaces. On 
17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad.
Ms F was unable to recover all of her costs from her travel providers and so made a claim 
on her travel insurance policy for expenses amounting to around £1150.
URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy for the 
circumstances of Ms Fs claim. Ms F made a complaint, but URV maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Ms F complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Ms Fs complaint. She didnt 
think it was fair Ms F was left without cover, if she travelled, but also wasnt covered if she 
cancelled. She noted Ms F had since confirmed shed been able to recover some further 
costs, so it was her accommodation costs she was claiming for. URV asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that the policy set out what was, and 
wasnt, covered. And, they also said the policy was priced to reflect the level of cover 
offered.
In August 2021 I issued a provisional decision. I said that I wasnt intending to uphold 
Ms Fs complaint. I set out the relevant policy terms and conditions. In summary, I said: 
Cancellation due to a change in FCO advice wasnt a valid reason for a cancellation 
claim to be paid under the policy as it wasnt a listed, insured event for which cover 
is provided under the terms of the policy
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation 
wasnt clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think 
its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms 
and conditions. But didnt think that was the case in the circumstances of this 
complaint as I was satisfied that the relevant exclusions were clearly and 
transparently set out in the policy terms and conditions. Had Ms F wanted a policy 
that covered a change in FCO advice then she could have found such a policy on 
the market.
URV accepted my provisional decision. Ms F made a number of further representations. In 
summary, she said: 
She questioned the reasoning and relevance of the FCO advice 
When she purchased the policy the WHO hadnt identified Covid-19 as a disease 
and none of the other policies offered under the same brand covered a change in 
FCO advice 
The FCO had never advised against travel to the country she was visiting so she 
wouldnt have thought it necessary to buy a policy to travel to a stable country
 
The country she was due to visit closed their borders and she would have been 
unable to enter. This isnt excluded under the policy terms
The insurer never intended to consider her claim in good faith. 
So, I now need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The further representations from Ms F havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of 
this complaint because: 
There were a number of factors which led to the cancellation of the trip including the 
impact of the pandemic, the closure of public spaces, the closure of the borders and 
changes in FCO advice. As I outlined in my provisional decision the policy terms and 
conditions specify the insured perils the insurer is prepared to cover. Ms F didnt 
cancel for any of the reasons set out on page 13 of the policy so, on a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms, there is no cover under the policy. 
Whilst border closures arent excluded in the policy, they also arent a specified 
insured event under the cancellation policy. To ensure that Ms F was treated fairly by 
her insurer I went on to consider the impact of the exclusion relating to FCO advice 
as I considered that to be relevant to the circumstances of her complaint and I 
wanted to ensure that URV had fairly declined Ms Fs claim. Having considered that 
aspect of the complaint I concluded that the exclusion was prominent and 
transparent in the policy terms 
I accept that Covid-19 wasnt a known event at the time Ms F bought her policy. And 
I appreciate that Ms F was travelling to a country which, prior to Covid-19, was 
unlikely to have been subject to sudden or unexpected changes in FCO advice. But, 
it doesnt follow that her complaint should be upheld. Insurers have to consider a 
wide range of risks and decide what they are, and arent, prepared to cover. In this 
case the insurer had excluded changes in FCO advice for cancellation claims. So, 
whilst this was an unforeseen and unprecedented event, URV can still fairly rely on 
the terms of the contract of insurance with Ms F, which excluded changes in FCO 
adviceIve taken into account that Ms F wouldnt have been able to buy a policy, under the 
same brand, which offered such cover. However, the travel insurance market offered 
a wide range of options at the time Ms F bought her policy and its likely shed have 
been able to buy a similar policy, with cover for changes in FCO advice, had she 
wanted to do so. I appreciate that Ms F bought a policy which she considered suited 
her needs at the time of purchase and Im sorry that shes left out of pocket as a 
result of the impact of the pandemic on her travel plans. However, I remain satisfied 
that the relevant exclusions were clearly highlighted to her and that she was able to 
make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for her.
Although Ms F considers that the insurer didnt intend to consider her claim in good 
faith Im satisfied that the claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of her 
policy. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman