DRN-2100472
The complaint
Miss C complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans lent to her irresponsibly. She 
says Buddy Loans did not complete proportionate and thorough checks before it agreed to 
lend to her. She says had it done so it wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable. Miss C 
says shes lost out financially as a result as she has had to pay additional interest and 
charges. 
What happened
Miss C was approved for the below loan by Buddy Loans:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR Total 
amount 
payable
November 
2016£5,000 36 months £243.95 49.9% £8,763.24
Miss C says at the time she applied for the loan she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Miss C says Buddy Loans didnt completed reasonable and proportionate checks, and had it 
done so it would seen the true state of her financial affairs, and realised any further lending 
was unaffordable. 
Miss C says she applied for the loan with Buddy Loans to consolidate down some of her 
existing debts.
Buddy Loans investigated Miss Cs complaint and felt it had lent to her responsibly. It says it 
completed an income and expenditure check and verified Miss Cs income electronically. 
Buddy Loans also completed a credit file check. It says based on these checks, Miss C had 
a disposable income of approximately £110 per month. Buddy Loans says it undertook a 
review of Miss Cs existing credit commitments to understand which debts Miss C would be 
consolidating down. It agreed to pay off one of Miss Cs existing credit commitments directly 
to reduce her outgoings further. It says based on these actions the loan would be affordable 
to Miss C. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He felt that 
Buddy Loans shouldve completed further checks before deciding to lend to Miss C. In 
particular he felt that further checks wouldve shown Miss Cs outgoings were higher than 
she had declared. This meant she had significantly less than the £110 disposable income 
remaining each month; and meant any further lending wouldve unsustainable.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Cs complaint. Bearing in mind the dispute before me, I think that there are two overarching questions that I need to 
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Miss Cs complaint. These are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss C, each 
time it lent, to satisfy itself that she was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable 
way? 
a. If so, did it make a fair decision to lend? 
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Miss C would have been able to 
do so?
2. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss C, each time it 
lent, to satisfy itself that she was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
Buddy Loans needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to 
understand if any lending was affordable to Miss C. The relevant rules dont set out which 
specific checks it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant 
checks could include things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and 
their outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. The checks also need to be borrower focused.
In relation to repaying the loan in a sustainable way, the industry rules and guidance define 
this as being able to repay without undue difficulties. And in particular the borrower should 
be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; and 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
There was also an obligation on Buddy Loans to carefully consider all of the information it is 
presented before deciding to lend, and for it to make a fair decision. One of the things which 
Buddy Loans needed to consider included the overall level of debt a borrower was already in 
and what effect any further credit would have on their future circumstances. 
Buddy Loans says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to 
lend to Miss C. It says it searched Miss Cs credit file, as well as completed an income and 
expenditure assessment, which highlighted that Miss C was in part-time employment and 
was receiving benefits. Initially Miss C declared her income to be £2,000, however after 
further verification this amount was reduced to just over £1,700. 
Miss Cs expenditure was calculated at being just over £1,600; leaving Miss C with 
approximately £110 disposable income per month. The outgoings included Miss Cs existing 
creditors. The list of creditors was obtained from Miss Cs credit file. The credit file also 
showed Miss C had had five defaults in the not too distant past; and had a number of 
existing credit commitments from other high cost credit providers. 
The largest existing credit commitment amounted to £297, and Buddy Loans agreed to 
consolidate this loan directly with the lender. Miss C also confirmed she would consolidate 
other smaller existing credit commitments. And thereby free up more disposable income. 
Buddy Loans say the remainder if Miss Cs credit file was well maintained, and as such no 
further checks were warranted.
Having considered Buddy Loans arguments; Im not persuaded its checks were 
proportionate. As Ive mentioned above it is not just enough for Buddy Loans to complete the 
checks, it needs to carefully consider the information it is provided before it decides to lend. 
Buddy Loans checks showed Miss C was on a low income (lower than she had initially declared) as she was working part time and receiving benefits. At the time of the application 
Miss C was earning approximately £506 in wages and the remainder in benefits including 
child tax credits, carers allowance and child benefits. Indeed, the benefits payments were 
the most significant part of Miss Cs income  amounting to approximately £1,200.
With her stated expenses Miss C only had a small amount of disposable income per month - 
£110. Buddy Loans was aware that she was carer, as well as having dependants. As such I 
think it ought to have realised that Miss C was running her budgets to a very tight margin of 
error. It was also aware that Miss C had numerous existing credit commitments, as well as 
historic defaults, which suggest that Miss C mayve had issues maintaining her finances in 
the past. This is combined with the fact she was looking to consolidate down debts, which in 
itself may suggest that she was struggling to meet her commitments.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied it wouldve been proportionate for Buddy Loans to 
take additional steps to check Miss Cs creditworthiness and get a thorough understanding 
of her financial circumstances. As Buddy Loans didnt do that, it follows that Im not satisfied 
Buddy Loans completed proportionate checks in this instance. 
Would further checks have shown that Miss C would have been able to sustainably repay 
the loan?
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that Buddy Loans shouldve got a further understanding 
of Miss Cs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. It couldve achieved this 
by requesting copies of Miss Cs bank statements. Miss C has provided our service with 
copies of these statements, and Ive reviewed them to see if Miss C wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay the loans. Having done so, Im satisfied that its unlikely Miss C would 
have been able to sustainably make the repayments required under this agreement.
I say this because the statements show that Miss Cs expenditure often exceeded the 
amount of income she was receiving. The account summaries show that she was often 
running at a negative balance, entering into her overdraft on occasions. There is no 
evidence of the £110 disposable income per month remaining. Miss Cs outgoings cover a 
number of things, but also include regular payments to the online gambling websites. The 
amounts increasing to around £400 per month prior to the loan being approved. During this 
period of time Miss Cs income is being supplemented by the credit commitments which 
Buddy Loans noted in their initial assessment.
Buddy Loans says the loan it approved Miss C wouldve reduced her outgoings and thereby 
making her repayments affordable. Ive carefully considered this argument, but I disagree 
that is the case in this instance. Given Miss Cs expenditure included gambling, which I think 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown, I think its unlikely that she was 
in a position where she could pay what she owed without suffering undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. When you also combine this with the fact Miss C had dependents and was 
a carer  meaning she had no margin for error for any unexpected changes in circumstances 
- Im satisfied the loan shouldnt have been provided to Miss C.
Buddy Loans was aware it needed to ascertain if Miss C could meet any repayments 
sustainably. This means without any undue financial difficulties or incurring further debt. For 
the reasons Ive outlined above, Im not satisfied Miss C wouldve been able to do this. And 
so on this basis, Im satisfied the loan wouldve always been unaffordable to Miss C. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans needs to:Refund all interest and charges Miss C paid on this loan;
Pay Miss C % simple interest on the refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information on Miss Cs credit file in relation to this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to take off tax 
from this interest. Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans must give Miss C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman