DRN-4032066
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice Whiting Group Limited (WGL) gave in connection with a 
potential transfer of benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to 
a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused 
a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr B to bring this complaint. But for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Bs.
The advising firm in this case was an appointed representative of WGL operating under a 
different name. But, as WGL is responsible for responding to the complaint, I will only refer 
to it within this decision. 
What happened
Mr B approached WGL in 2003 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. It sent Mr B a 
fact-find document which Mr B completed himself. This was to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. I understand WGL then spoke with Mr B and ran through the 
fact-find information again. Amongst other things WGL recorded:
Mr B was nearing age 50 at the time of the advice, he was married to Mrs B with one 
dependent daughter.
Together they had a net household income of around £21,600 a year.
Mr and Mrs B had regular outgoings of around £15,000 a year leaving a disposable 
income of around £6,000 a year.
They owned their own home, valued at around £170,000 and they had an 
outstanding mortgage of £37,000
Mr B was paying off a car loan of £8,000.
He was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. He was 
considering transferring funds from that scheme in order to release tax free cash 
(TFC) to pay off his loan and buy a new car. 
His DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value of £74,690.
He wanted to retire at 55.
 
On 18 June 2003 WGL gave Mr B a suitability report together with a technical report setting 
out its analysis and recommendations. It recommended that Mr B should not transfer out of 
his DB scheme. It said Mr B could raise the cash he wanted by borrowing. It added that he 
could reduce his debt by using some of his surplus income to make overpayments. It said 
that despite its advice, Mr B had told it he wanted to proceed with the transfer. It added that 
it strongly advised Mr B, after hed taken his TFC, to reinvest it. It recommended that if 
Mr B proceeded he should transfer £44,880 to a Section 32 Buyout Plan (a type of personal 
pension) with a named provider which he could access immediately. And to transfer the 
remaining £29,810  made up of protected rights  to a personal pension plan, with the 
same provider, which he could access at a later date.
Mr B went ahead with the transfer. He received TFC of £17,164 and bought an annuity 
paying him £955 a year. In 2008 Mr B took further benefits from his other personal pension. 
In 2022 Mr B complained to WGL that its advice in 2003 wasnt suitable for him. Amongst 
other things he said:
WGL had incorrectly calculated his benefit entitlement if hed remained in the DB 
scheme until age 65.
He had no specific need for TFC at the time of the advice.
WGL didnt explain the value of a guaranteed income or the advantages and 
disadvantages of transferring out of a DB scheme. 
It had treated Mr B as an insistent client1.
WGL didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In brief it said its advice was that Mr B should not 
transfer. It added that Mr B had made his complaint too late.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. He said he didn't 
think Mr B had made his complaint too late and went on to consider its merits. Having done 
so he recommended upholding it. He said he didnt think WGLs advice was suitable for 
Mr B. Our Investigator said WGL should pay compensation for any losses Mr B suffered 
because of its unsuitable advice.
WGL didnt agree with our Investigators assessment. It continued to argue that the 
complaint was out of time. It also disagreed that its advice was unsuitable. As our 
Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing the complaint and replying to it both Mr B and WGL have made a number of 
points. I've carefully considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on the issues I see as being the 
key matters at the heart of Mr Bs complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Is this a complaint we have the authority to look at?
We dont have a free hand to consider each and every complaint we receive. Our rules as 
set out in the FCA Handbook, are commonly referred to as DISP. DISP 2.8.2R says that 
where a business doesnt consent (as WGL hasnt here), I cant consider a complaint made 
more than six years after the events complained of, or if later, more than three years after 
the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of their cause for 
complaint.
The events Mr B complains about took place in 2003. Mr B didnt complain until 2022. That 
is clearly outside of the six years allowed to bring a complaint to this Service. And WGL has 
argued that Mr B should have been aware of his grounds for complaint sooner. So, I have to 
consider whether he brought his complaint within three years of when he became aware, or 
ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause for complaint.
WGL said that there were three points at which Mr B ought reasonably to have been aware 
he had cause for complaint:
1 Where a client chooses to go against a financial advisers recommendation, they are often referred 
to as an insistent client.In 2003, when he took TFC and bought an annuity.
In 2008 when he took further benefits from his other personal pension.
In 2018 when he would have reached the DB schemes normal retirement age.
Ill address each in turn. When doing so the key question for me is when ought Mr B 
reasonably to have become aware that there was a problem, whether that problem had 
potentially caused him a loss, and what caused that potential loss to arise. 
We asked Mr B what prompted him to complain in 2022. He told us that, at that time, hed 
been speaking to former colleagues who had kept their DB scheme membership. And at that 
point he became concerned that WGLs advice had been unsuitable. This prompted him - 
after seeing an advert from professional representatives  to contact them. They looked into 
his pension and submitted a complaint on his behalf about the unsuitability of WGLs advice 
for him.
2003
Mr B sought advice from WGL and then acted on its recommendations to transfer his 
benefits to two personal pensions. He took TFC and an annuity from one and invested the 
other. If Mr B had reasonably understood that WGLs advice might not have been right for 
him at that time, giving him cause for complaint, I don't believe he would have gone ahead 
with the transfer and the process would have ended at that point. But as he didnt realise the 
advice might not be suitable, he proceeded. And given that hed asked for advice about how 
to raise cash, and that was what WGL had recommended, I can understand why he did so. 
So I don't think he ought reasonably to have known in 2003 that he had cause for complaint.
2008
Mr B chose to take benefits from his second personal pension in 2008. But I don't see how 
this would have alerted him to a concern about WGLs advice in 2003. WGLs suitability and 
technical reports didnt make any comparison with benefits from the DB scheme against 
benefits from a personal pension if he took those in 2008. And without being able to make a 
like-for-like comparison I dont think hed have had any cause to understand what he was 
potentially missing out on following the transfer in 2003. So I dont think Mr B accessing his 
pension in 2008 should have prompted him to be reasonably aware that WGL's advice some 
five years earlier might not have been suitable for him.
2018
Had Mr B remained in his DB scheme he would have been entitled to take full benefits from 
it in 2018. So, WGL has argued that he should have been able to compare the benefits from 
what his DB scheme would have been worth in 2018 against what he was receiving from his 
personal pensions. And, as this was more than three years before he complained in 2022, it 
thinks he brought his complaint too late. But I'm not persuaded by WGLs arguments.
WGL had given Mr B advice in 2003, some fifteen years earlier. And while WGL did provide 
an indication of what Mr B could receive from the DB scheme in 2018, I wouldn't necessarily 
have expected Mr B to retain that information for 15 years. So I think its unlikely he would 
have remembered what his likely DB pension entitlement was in 2018. 
Further, Mr B told us that it wasnt until speaking with former colleagues in 2022 that he 
became aware he might have lost out. So, I'm satisfied it was only at that point, in 2022, that 
Mr B reasonably became aware he had cause for complaint. That means he brought his complaint in time. So this is a complaint we have the authority to consider. And I've gone on 
to consider its merits below.
Was WGLs advice suitable for Mr B?
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for reasons broadly similar to those our 
investigator gave.
The regulators position
The regulators have been clear for many years that an adviser should start by assuming a 
DB transfer is unsuitable and only consider it to be suitable if they can clearly demonstrate 
its in the clients best interest. This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has 
been renumbered to Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 19.1.6G in the current 
regulators handbook. 
At the time of the advice in Mr Bs case there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place 
in respect of insistent clients. But the regulator expected WGL to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, WGL was 
required to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, WGLs 
recommendations had to be clear and Mr B had to understand the consequences of going 
against its recommendation.
Did WGL make its advice clear enough?
WGL did recommend that Mr B should remain in the DB scheme. It said he could access 
cash from other means, for example by borrowing. But I think WGLs recommendation was 
undermined by the process it then followed and also in the statements made in its suitability 
report. 
For example WGL set out that Mr Bs objectives were to:
Reduce his debts to also reduce his outgoings.
Reduce borrowing on buying a new car.
It said that methods of achieving those objectives included:
Applying for a personal loan.
Increasing his repayments towards his existing loan to repay it sooner.
Releasing cash from the DB scheme.
In terms of taking out a personal loan it said that if Mr B borrowed £18,000, he could repay 
that at £226.45 a month, over 15 years. That would be a total cost to Mr B of over £40,700. 
But its anything but clear why WGL said Mr B might want a loan for £18,000. Its not 
documented anywhere on file that Mr B said he wanted or needed £18,000. Hed said he 
had an existing loan of £8,000 and was considering a new car. But he hadn't specified an 
amount of TFC that he needed. 
It seems likely that WGL quoted a loan figure of £18,000 as that was around the amount 
Mr B could receive from his DB scheme in the first year following a transfer; made up of £17,164 TFC and an annuity income of £955. But Mr B hadn't said he needed anything like 
that sum. And, given that he was clearly managing to repay his current loan, with a 
considerable amount of disposable income remaining, he had no reason to give up his 
guaranteed retirement income in order to pay off a loan he was managing to pay comfortably 
already. Instead WGL should have looked at how much he actually needed and then 
produced a realistic figure for what that could cost him to borrow. But instead the figures 
included in the suitability report are excessive in terms of his needs and no doubt looked an 
unattractive prospect in terms of affordability to Mr B. So I dont think the information WGL 
presented to Mr B was appropriate for his situation.
WGL also said Mr B could reduce his borrowing by using his disposable income to make 
overpayments on his current loan. But it added that some lenders would charge early 
repayment penalties for doing so. However, I can't see that it looked to find out if that was 
indeed the case for Mr Bs loan. So this might not have applied to his situation in any event. 
Further, even if it did, taking an early repayment penalty would only affect him in the short 
term, whereas transferring out of his DB scheme would have an effect on his pension 
entitlement until his death. I think WGL should have made this clear to Mr B but theres little 
evidence it did so.
WGL then looked at the possibility of Mr B releasing cash from his DB scheme. It said:
 
By taking early release of the pensions we have investigated, the cash sum is available 
without borrowing any additional money in order to achieve your current financial planning 
objectives. However, your long-term pension income will be reduced.
I think this sent a mixed message to Mr B. While warning of the effects in the long-term, it 
said it was a way for Mr B to meet his current financial objectives. And while that might have 
been the case, in order to act in Mr Bs best interests WGL needed to challenge Mr Bs 
motives for those objectives, explaining why they weren't in his best interests in terms of 
retirement planning. But I don't think WGL went far enough to make that clear.
Further, as I've said above, WGLs recommendation in its suitability report was that Mr B 
should remain in his DB scheme. But, it also said that Mr B had instructed it to continue with 
the transfer. So its apparent from that comment that WGL had previously discussed with 
Mr B what his options were and what he intended to do before it gave him its suitability 
report. Its on the basis of that discussion that WGL says Mr B decided he wanted to go 
ahead with the transfer. And, as this was against WGLs recommendation it  essentially  
decided to treat Mr B as an insistent client. But at that point WGL hadnt yet given Mr B its 
suitability report. So any information it gave to him could only have been presented in a raw 
state, that is without the analysis contained within the suitability report. I find this undermines 
the advice process. That's because I don't see how WGL could expect Mr B to make an 
informed decision about going against its recommendation when it seems unlikely it had 
given him all the information he needed in order to make that decision. That is, it gave him 
some limited information and expected him to make a determination that started him down 
the road of the insistent client process without giving him all the detail he needed reasonably 
to make that decision.
A much clearer process would have been for WGL to provide its advice and 
recommendations before asking Mr B if he wanted to proceed. That advice should have 
considered the overall picture  both of transferring out of the scheme together with the 
choice of pension(s) and other methods of raising cash. WGL should have clearly set out 
why transferring out of the scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. Instead, its apparent that 
it first discussed the matter with him and while it recorded that its advice was not to transfer, 
it also apparently told Mr B that it could arrange the transfer for him anyway. It then 
recommended two separate personal pensions for him to transfer into. So, alongside its recommendation not to transfer, WGL also told Mr B it would arrange a transfer for him. In 
doing so it told him he would receive a large lump sum immediately; achieving his objectives 
and without further borrowing. So on the one hand it told him not to transfer while, at the 
same time, telling him he could meet his objectives by making a recommendation to transfer. 
I can understand why Mr B later believed WGL had actually recommended that he should go 
ahead with the transfer, as WGLs comments indicate that the transfer was a positive benefit 
for him. 
Further, WGL didnt obtain a transfer value analysis report and it didnt calculate the growth 
rate required to match the DB scheme benefits being given up (the critical yield). So it didnt 
show Mr B just how much his personal pensions would need to grow by in order to match 
the benefits from the DB scheme. Also Mr B could have taken benefits directly from the DB 
scheme at age 50, although those would have been reduced as he was taking them early. 
However, there's little evidence WGL brought this to Mr Bs attention at the time or gave him 
a comparison of what he could receive from the DB scheme immediately against what he 
would receive from transferring out of it. 
That said, WGL did say Mr B would be worse off in the long term by transferring. And it said 
that, at his schemes normal retirement age was 65 he could be giving up £5,206 a year in 
income. Although it softened that comment by saying he would be making a saving of 
£2,717 a year in debt repayments. But, that figure  £2,717  is based on WGLs quote for a 
loan of £18,000. As Ive already indicated, that was a sum that Mr B didnt say he wanted or 
needed. So, its unlikely, if the advice process had played out differently, that he would ever 
have borrowed that sum and so had to make such high repayments. Therefore, I don't think 
that figure was relevant to Mr Bs circumstances. 
In addition, I don't think WGL accurately reported the extent to which Mr B would be worse 
off by transferring. Thats because Mr Bs DB pension would increase each year in line with 
the schemes inflation indexation. But the whole of his pension entitlement didnt increase at 
the same index rate. The different rates applying to pension entitlements accrued over 
different years are sometimes known as slices. Mr B had entitlement to whats known as a 
guaranteed minimum payment (GMP)2. Around 38% of Mr Bs DB scheme entitlement was 
made up of GMP. The information from the DB scheme administrators showed that the GMP 
would revalue each year at a fixed rate of 6.25%. But, when WGL calculated what Mr Bs DB 
pension entitlement would be at age 65, it only increased the GMP slices of his pension 
entitlement by 2.5%, which was the same figure it assumed the non-GMP slice would grow 
by. So, its calculation wasnt accurate.
WGLs suitability report showed Mr B could be entitled to a DB scheme pension, at age 65 
(net of tax) of £7,557.62 a year. But that was based on the incorrect calculation described 
above. In response to Mr Bs complaint WGL recalculated this figure, using the correct GMP 
revaluation rate, and arrived at a figure of £9,693 a year. An increase of over 28%. Although 
it used the actual inflation rates applied historically for the non GMP slice, rather than an 
assumed inflation rate (of 2.5%) as it had in its initial calculation. And it said that it couldnt 
have known that actual inflation would outstrip its previous assumptions. But if WGL had 
used the assumed inflation rate of 2.5% for the non GMP slice, and the correct index rate of 
6.25% for the GMP slices, the difference in figures between what WGL gave at the time of its 
advice and the correct calculation would still have been almost 24%. Thats a significant 
difference and is something that could have persuaded Mr B to think again about his chosen 
2 GMP is the minimum amount a pension scheme must pay where, as is the case with most DB 
schemes, the members have opted out of paying into State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). GMP is generally only payable when a scheme member reaches a certain age. 
When transferred to a personal pension the sums involved are often referred to as protected rights.course of action. But because WGL didnt give him accurate figures Mr B didnt have all the 
information he needed in order to make such an important decision.
That said WGL acknowledged that Mr B was likely to be worse off in the long-term by 
transferring. So, it was all the more important that the other reasons for transferring were 
sufficiently compelling. In particular Mr Bs desire for a cash lump sum. But WGL didnt 
explore this in detail with Mr B. Indeed it said Mr B hadn't told it how much cash he required. 
I dont see how WGL could give Mr B suitable advice in respect of his objectives without 
knowing the basic facts about exactly how much he needed and what that was for. 
Further, Ive not seen evidence that WGL effectively advised Mr B about the long-term 
nature of pension planning. That is the need for a pot of funds to provide an income for many 
years ahead. WGLs role was to find out what Mr Bs wants and needs were and why he 
wanted to transfer his pension. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr B wanted without 
appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so whilst discussing the 
implications of taking those actions with him. But I've seen little evidence of such a challenge 
even though that was in Mr Bs best interests. So I dont think WGL met its obligations to 
challenge Mr Bs objectives in light of what he would be giving up. 
WGL did give Mr B advice not to transfer but I don't think it can fairly rely on that 
recommendation. Thats because Mr B apparently made his initial decision to go against its 
advice before WGL had given him its suitability and technical reports. It then followed up its 
advice not to transfer with information about how he could do that anyway. And it did that 
together with recommendations about accessing TFC and an annuity together with another 
recommendation to invest his protected rights funds in a personal pension, which he could 
access at a later date. As I've already said, I think that sent mixed messages about what 
WGLs recommendation actually was. 
WGL was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr B about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Bs DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. But Mr Bs 
chosen path was to give up a guaranteed, risk free and increasing income in retirement for 
the chance of getting hold of a large lump sum of cash, together with the prospect of far less 
generous annuity payments. That wasn't something he needed to do or was in his best 
interests.
And I don't think that WGL  essentially  treating Mr B as an insistent client when he 
expressed preference not to follow its advice, is the same as applying the rigorous process 
of arriving at a fair determination of who an insistent client really is. So, given the flaws 
described above in WGLs advice process, I dont think it fully and accurately informed Mr B 
about his position. 
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the 
process WGL followed meant that it was fair for it to treat Mr B in the manner of an insistent 
client. So I don't think WGL acted in his best interests.
It follows that I dont think WGL did enough to fully advise Mr B of his options before it began 
treating him as an insistent client. I think Mr B could have misunderstood or believed that 
overall, WGL was recommending that he might benefit from going ahead with the transfer. 
So I dont think it treated him fairly. And, if it had done so and provided the level of advice I 
think it should have, I think its unlikely that Mr B would have transferred out of his DB 
scheme.
WGL argues that Mr B would have transferred out of the scheme regardless of what it told 
him. But Im not persuaded that Mr B would have insisted on transferring against WGLs advice if it had sufficiently brought all of the options and risks to his attention. I say this 
because Mr B was an inexperienced investor with a cautious attitude to risk. But he was 
taking a significant risk of losing the guarantees from his DB scheme and reducing his 
income in retirement by transferring out of it. So, if WGL had provided him with clearer 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining in detail why it wasnt in his 
best interests, before giving him the option of acting as an insistent client, I think he wouldve 
accepted that advice. 
WGLs said that Mr B had spoken with another advising firm before seeking WGLs services. 
So it says that shows Mr B was definitely looking to transfer. But I disagree. Mr Bs 
interaction with another advising firm simply indicates he was looking for experts to give him 
advice. And theres a comment on file that he chose WGL because it provided a better 
service than another named advising firm. So theres no evidence on file that the other firm 
had actually given him advice or if so what that advice was. Instead it appears he simply 
preferred WGL as advisers because of the level of service it offered. So theres no evidence 
he approached WGL for its expert advice after receiving a recommendation not to transfer 
from another firm. And in those circumstances I don't accept WGLs arguments that, if its 
advice had been more robust, Mr B would have simply found another adviser to make the 
transfer for him. 
In light of the above, I think WGL should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for WGL to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have most 
likely remained in the DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
WGL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, as Mr B took his pension benefits from age 50, and retired shortly after, 
compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this age. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, WGL should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,if Mr B accepts WGLs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, WGL may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Whiting Group Limited 
to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000. Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also 
recommend that Whiting Group Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Whiting Group Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman