DRN-4036448
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how Tesco Personal Finance plc trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
handled her request for help to recover money under Section 75 (s75) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs S purchased two new ovens directly from the merchant, who Ill refer 
to as C. She paid using her Tesco credit card. 
A couple of months later Mrs S got in touch with C to say the ovens were faulty. She said 
they werent cooking the food properly and it was causing her to waste a lot of time and 
money, as well as food. She told C she wanted to return the ovens and arrange a full refund. 
C explained that they would need to send an engineer to Mrs Ss house to inspect the 
ovens, to try and ascertain if it was a fault with the ovens, with the installation or with how the 
ovens were being used. Mrs S said it wasnt possible to arrange an inspection as she had 
significant health issues that made it difficult for her to allow anyone into the house during 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Because of this, C said there wasnt anything they could do, as an 
inspection was needed before any decision on replacing or refunding the money for the 
ovens could be made. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs S got in contact with Tesco and asked them to consider a s75 claim. 
Tesco explained to Mrs S that they couldnt agree with her request for a refund under s75 as 
there was no evidence to suggest the ovens were faulty when they were supplied by C  
which meant that Tesco couldnt reasonably say a breach of contract had occurred. They 
told Mrs S that an inspection was still needed, and they would hold her s75 claim open until 
she felt in a position to allow an inspection to take place. Mrs S told Tesco that an inspection 
was going to be difficult. She also confirmed that shed had the ovens removed in 
February 2021 and they were in her garage awaiting Cs agreement to collect them. Tesco 
said they couldnt take the s75 claim any further and wouldnt be refunding Mrs Ss money.
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said that 
Tesco had acted reasonably by saying they couldnt look at the s75 claim as things stood. 
He said he agreed with them that an inspection and report was required to confirm if there 
were any faults with the ovens when they were supplied  but without a report, our 
investigator said he couldnt ask Tesco to do anything more than they had. 
Mrs S agreed that an inspection would be necessary, but due to her health concerns 
continued to have reservations about it. She did think there were options available, and our 
investigator urged her to get in touch with C to see if a suitable time and suitable 
arrangements could be made to ensure any inspection was carried out with the utmost 
safety precautions. 
As Mrs S didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs S paid for the ovens outright on her Tesco credit card. S75 says that in certain 
circumstances, Tesco are jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
purchase agreement with C that the ovens must be of satisfactory quality. Under the 
principles of s75, Tesco can be held jointly liable for the quality of the ovens Mrs S bought. 
Mrs S has said that the CRA allows her the first six months following purchase to state that 
any fault with the ovens will be deemed as an inherent fault and therefore an automatic 
breach of contract. It is for the seller  C in this case  to prove otherwise in these 
circumstances. This may be the case, but C had tried to prove otherwise without success. 
They had attempted to arrange inspections with Mrs S and had explained their reasons for 
needing to do this. Mrs S has explained the reasons why an inspection at the time it was 
proposed wasnt possible  and I completely respect those reasons. But the lack of an 
inspection and subsequent determination of any faults, if there were any, means that I cant 
conclude that Tesco declined the s75 claim unfairly for Mrs S. At the time they were asked to 
consider it, there was no clear evidence of an inherent fault with the ovens. Mrs S had 
provided testimony and photos to show the food wasnt being cooked properly, or in the time 
that she expected. But C hadnt had the opportunity to inspect the ovens  as they were 
willing to do  so there wasnt any evidence to suggest there had been a breach of contract 
from C. Because of that, Im satisfied Tesco acted reasonably by telling Mrs S that they 
couldnt take her s75 claim any further at that stage. 
The last information I had showed that C had explained that they were still prepared to 
arrange a suitable time with Mrs S to inspect the ovens. And I understand Mrs S is prepared 
to work with them to try and progress things. The reasons why Mrs S has been reluctant to 
allow an inspection to take place prior to now are completely understandable  but I would 
urge her to try and work with C to come to a mutually agreeable solution. From what Ive 
seen Tesco havent closed Mrs Ss s75 claim, but they will need more information to enable 
them to reconsider it. 
At this time, my decision is that Tesco have acted reasonably towards Mrs S, and I dont 
require them to do anything more. My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman