DRN-3579346
The complaint
Mrs S complains about delays and problems she experienced when she tried to transfer an 
existing ISA account from another provider to Skipton Building Society (Skipton).   
What happened
In March 2022, Mrs S contacted Skipton requesting information about how to transfer her 
existing ISA (Individual Savings Account) from another financial provider to a new ISA with 
them. She said the existing provider wasnt included on Skiptons transfer list. Skipton 
agreed to send her the necessary forms to complete. On receipt, Mrs S completed and 
returned the forms to Skipton.
On 6 April 2022, Mrs S received a secure message from Skipton, but she wasnt able to 
open it. Mrs S called Skipton to find out what it said. Skipton said her ISA transfer request 
had been rejected by the other financial provider. So, Mrs S called the other provider. They 
said they hadnt received a request from Skipton.
Mrs S called Skipton again to explain this. Skipton told her shed not given the correct 
account number for her existing ISA with the other provider. Mrs S checked the details and 
after speaking with the other provider, confirmed to Skipton the details shed entered were 
correct. Skipton agreed to submit the request again.
Mrs S called Skipton again on 7 April 2022. They told her the request had been rejected 
again. She spoke to the other provider who said they hadnt received a request. 
On 8 April 2022, Skipton asked Mrs S to complete another transfer request. She couldnt 
understand why as shed recently successfully completed a similar transfer for her husband. 
Skipton agreed to investigate further. They resubmitted the request to the other provider 
which was successful this time.
Mrs S wasnt happy with the service she received from Skipton. She thought Skipton were 
responsible for the delays and shouldve known what was required to ensure the transfer 
was completed. So, she complained to them.
Skipton responded to Mrs Ss complaint on 25 May 2022. They said Mrs Ss transfer request 
had been rejected by the other provider as the details quoted werent correct. They said they 
resubmitted the request after conversations with her and the transfer was successfully 
completed on 12 April 2022. Skipton didnt agree theyd done anything wrong as theyd 
submitted the original request using the details Mrs S herself had entered on the transfer 
form.
Mrs S wasnt happy with Skiptons response. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
She wanted Skipton to financially compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and her time and effort resolving the problem.
Having looked at all the information and evidence, our investigator didnt think Skipton had 
done anything wrong and so didnt need to do anything more. Mrs S didnt agree with our 
investigators findings. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ss complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skipton said the details Mrs S quoted on the transfer request form werent correct. Theyve 
provided a copy of the form that Mrs S completed and sent back to them. Section 2 of the 
form requests details of the ISA to be transferred. In particular the sections to complete 
include:
Existing ISA number  completed by Mrs S
Existing sort code  completed by Mrs S
Roll Number (if applicable)  Left blank
Ive also looked at the website for the financial provider from where the account was being 
transferred. It has a page that provides clear instructions for transferring an existing ISA to 
another provider  in this case to Skipton. It says, You will need to provide them with:
our name: xxx
our Account Number: xxxxxxxx
our sort code: xx-xx-xx
the account number of eachISA product you want to transfer.
The last of these appears to relate to the roll number specific to Mrs Ss ISA. So, I believe 
Mrs S shouldve included this on Skiptons transfer request form where indicated. But as Ive 
shown above, that wasnt done here. I think this explains why Mrs Ss request was rejected 
on each occasion.
Mrs Ss complaint and response to our investigators findings suggests that Skipton 
shouldve known exactly what information was required. Skipton will, Im sure, receive 
requests to transfer ISAs from many different financial providers. Each of these will have 
different requirements and roll number formats (where appropriate). So, I cant reasonably 
say that Skipton were at fault for not realising the information Mrs S first provided wasnt 
right. I think they would reasonably have expected the information provided to be correct.
Mrs S also expressed concern over some ambiguity about the information requested on 
Skiptons form. I would always recommend a consumer asks for support and guidance if 
necessary when completing important forms. Particularly where they feel requirements are 
not clear.
Mrs S says that the other provider repeatedly told her they hadnt received a transfer request 
from Skipton. Ive seen nothing to suggest the transfer requests werent submitted by 
Skipton. So, I think it reasonable to conclude that each request hadnt been registered due to 
its rejection by the other provider. And given my findings above, I cant reasonably hold 
Skipton responsible for that.
It appears Skipton did finally succeed in completing the transfer of Mrs Ss ISA on 12 April 
2022. So, Im pleased that a resolution was ultimately achieved. But while I do appreciate 
Mrs S will be disappointed, I havent been persuaded that Skipton were at fault here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman