DRN-2473967
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (trading as Peoples
Choice) unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one
regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont
identify any other party.
Mr A was approaching an age when some people retire. He was suffering from anxiety
and depression. He wasnt able to work in paid employment.
In September 2019, Mr A took out motor insurance through Hastings. 
After some telephone calls and letters, Mr A complained to Hastings that it had given
him a deadline and then cancelled the policy and charged him fees.
Hastings wrote a final response letter dated 21 October 2019. It acknowledged some
poor service where the customer representatives had spoken over Mr A. Hastings said
it was sending Mr A a cheque for £50.00 compensation. Unhappy with that, Mr A
brought his complaint to us in early December 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
Hastings was able to cancel the policy and it gave Mr A notice of this. Hastings had
admitted its service couldve been better and it had made a compensation payment. The
investigator thought it reasonable that Hastings had refunded the remaining premium.
My first provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a first provisional decision on this complaint to Mr
A and to Hastings on 19 October 2020. I summarise my findings:
Having agreed that it would only cancel for one of the reasons in its list, Hastings
cancelled for a reason not in its list. I was minded to find that unfair and
unreasonable.
Subject to any further information from Mr A or from Hastings, my first provisional
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Hastings
Insurance Services Limited to:
1. pay Mr A  in addition to the £50.00 already paid  a further £100.00 for
distress and inconvenience; and
2. write a letter to Mr A confirming that it incorrectly cancelled his policy and that it 
has asked the insurance company to remove any record of the cancellation from 
internal and external databases.
My second provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr A and to Hastings on 3 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
Mr A hadnt taken reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation about his 
occupation.
Under Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act (CIDRA) 
Schedule 1 paragraph 9 sub paragraph (4)(b)  the insurer had a statutory right to 
terminate the contract by giving reasonable notice to the consumer.
I considered that the statutory right was separate from the contractual terms about
cancellation. So I was satisfied that Hastings didnt treat Mr A unfairly by cancelling
the policy.
Subject to any further information from Mr A or from Hastings, my second provisional
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Hastings
Insurance Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr A disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
In 30 years driving, he has never made any false information to get cheap insurance 
or had any previous issues.
He isnt unemployed. He is disabled and a house person.
In 2019, Hastings online questions about occupation didnt include not working due 
to disability. So he selected house husband as it was the closest thing he could 
select. 
On 6 September 2019 he phoned Hastings to go through his form so there wouldn't 
be any come-back. There was no discussion of paying an extra premium.
He didn't cheat or make any misrepresentation.
Hastings changed the occupation questions in 2020.
Hastings hasnt responded to the second provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A had a short-lived policy from about 1 September 2019. From the recording of the
call on 6 September 2019, I find that Mr A said he was retired. But he later said he was
on ESA (Employment and Support Allowance). Hastings said it would regard him as
unemployed and that there would be additional charges of £134.24. Mr A cancelled the
policy.So Mr A knew his occupation was relevant to Hastings and that it would regard him as
unemployed.
Later that evening Mr A went online and got a quote. On 21 January 2020 Hastings provided 
us with screenshots of the questions asked online about occupation. I havent seen any 
evidence that the questions had changed since September 2019.
After clicking on Not in paid work right now, there were options to click Househusband, 
Housewife, Unemployed or Other. After clicking on Other, there were options to click on 
House Parent, Independent Means, Not Employed Due to Disability, Not in Employment or 
Voluntary Worker.
I find that - in response to a clear question about his occupation  Mr A said online that he
was a house husband. In view of what had happened earlier that day, I find that Mr A hadnt 
taken reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation about his occupation.
From the recording of his call later that evening, I find that Mr A repeated that he was a
house husband. I dont consider that the call-handler was in a position to question that or
to confirm whether it was correct.
Mr A completed the purchase of the policy online. He paid the annual premium of about
£256.00 in full rather than by instalments.
The policy terms included a schedule of fees. They included a policy arrangement fee of
£20.00 and a fee for cancellation after the 14-day cooling-off period of £45.00.
CIDRA Schedule 1 provides an exhaustive list of the insurers remedies for a
misrepresentation. One of those remedies is that the insurer may avoid the policy, that
is treat it as though it never existed.
Many motor policies provide that the insurer may cancel for any reason. And I wouldnt
usually find it unfair for the insurer to treat the provision of conflicting information as good
reason for cancellation. 
But the Hastings policy terms restricted the reasons for cancellation as follows:
Our rights to cancel your Policy
We may give you seven days notice of cancellation
We and your Insurer can cancel your Policy at any time by sending the Primary
Policyholder seven days written notice to the last postal or email address on our 
system, stating why the Policy has been cancelled. We can only do this for one
of the following reasons:
 Weve been unable to collect a payment for your premium  see general condition 4
 You refuse to allow us or your Insurer reasonable access to your Car/s in order to 
provide the services youve requested under this Policy e.g. when you make a claim
 You dont provide reasonable co-operation to us or your Insurer in order to
allow us to process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend our interests
 Your Insurer is prevented from providing cover under this Policy by law or other 
reason
 You dont send us or your Insurer information or documentation that your
Insurer reasonably requires to process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend their 
interests
 You dont take care of your Car/s as required by general condition 3 and in
your Insurers reasonable opinion this materially increases the risk they have insured You use threatening or abusive language or behaviour, or intimidate or bully our 
employees or your Insurers staff or suppliers.
Ive underlined the phrase stating why the Policy has been cancelled. I consider that
Hastings undertook to explain a reason for cancellation.
Ive underlined the phrase We can only do this for one of the following reasons: I
consider that there was an exhaustive list of the only reasons for which Hastings or the
insurance company could cancel the policy.
Immediately after the words quoted above, the policy said the following:
In certain circumstances we or your Insurer have the right to treat your Policy
as if it never existed and without giving you notice or refunding your Premium.
This will only apply if you make, or try to make, or where your Insurer
reasonably suspects misrepresentation which is deliberate and/or reckless. Any
claims made before or during when the Policy is treated as if it never existed,
will be declined.
I consider that this term was about the remedy of avoiding the policy under CIDRA. It didnt 
mention cancellation of the policy under CIDRA. And  although Ive quoted two parts 
separately, reading them together suggests that there wouldnt be a cancellation of the 
policy for a reason under CIDRA.
From the recording of the call on 19 September 2019, I find that Hastings asked Mr A his
current occupation and he said he wasnt working and was in receipt of ESA.
On the same day, Hastings wrote a letter saying that it would on 26 September amend Mr
As occupation, charge an amendment fee and take a further payment on his card. I find
that by 19 September 2019, Mr A had provided reasonable cooperation to allow Hastings
to process his policy.
From the recording of the call on 26 September 2019, I find that Mr A said he was a
house person but received ESA.
On 30 September 2019, Hastings wrote a letter saying that it had amended Mr As
occupation to unemployed and would take a further payment of about £98.00 on his card.
So  knowing of the conflicting information about his occupation  Hastings wasnt
proposing to cancel the policy.
But it was proposing to charge an additional premium. And Im satisfied that the increased
premium is what it wouldve charged if Mr A had correctly described his occupation.
I dont consider that it was unfair for Hastings to charge the additional premium. But Mr A
refused to pay it.
Within a couple of days, Hastings decided to cancel the policy. I can understand that Mr A
felt pressurised. But I dont find that Hastings bullied him.
Hastings wrote two letters dated 2 October 2019.
One of them said the following:
You carried out a number of quotes using different details. Because of this, we'll 
cancel your cover on 9th October 2019The other letter gave seven days written notice that it would cancel the policy on 9 October
2019 for the following reason:
because new information has come to light during our validation checks, and 
we're no longer able to cover you based on these details.
I find that there was nothing that prevented the insurer from providing cover  albeit at an
additional premium.
In its final response letter sated 21 October 2019, Hastings gave the following reason:
Your policy was cancelled because you confirmed that you are unemployed and you 
chose house person as your occupation because it was cheaper. This is known as 
quote manipulation
Hastings also wrote a letter dated 29 October 2019. It included the following:
confirm that we have cancelled your policy due to number of quotes that was 
carried out using different details
Hastings has never suggested that the policy was void from the start or that it was
retaining the premium. It refunded Mr A as follows:
Premium paid £256.66
Time on cover £  20.70
Arrangement fee  £ 20.00
Cancellation fee £  45.00
Sub-total £  85.70
Refunded £170.96
It said it was charging for his time on cover (from 6 September to 9 October) at the initial
yearly premium of about £256.00 without the additional amount of about £98.00. For that
period of just over a month, it charged £20.70  which I find proportionate.
The reasons given by Hastings didnt mention quote manipulation until the final
response. And the reasons didnt mention legislation or CIDRA until after the first
provisional decision. So I find that Hastings had failed properly to explain a reason for
cancelling the policy.
However, I consider that Hastings has now shown that there was a good reason for
cancelling the policy. Mr A had made a careless misrepresentation about his
occupation. 
So the insurer wouldve charged a higher premium and it couldve reduced
proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim. So  under CIDRA Schedule 1
paragraph 9 sub paragraph (4)(b)  the insurer had a statutory right to terminate the
contract by giving reasonable notice to the consumer.
I consider that the statutory right was separate from the contractual terms about
cancellation. So Im now satisfied that Hastings didnt treat Mr A unfairly by cancelling
the policy.Although Hastings hasnt raised it, I consider that there is a further reason it couldve
given for cancelling the policy. That was that Mr A had refused to pay the additional
premium. And  notwithstanding the reference to general condition 4 (which was about
paying instalments under a loan agreement) - I find that Hastings was unable to collect
a payment for [Mr As] premium  which was the first reason on the list of reasons
quoted above.
In response to the first provisional decision, Mr A showed us policy documents for
a year from 10 October 2019 at a total cost of about £660.00. But his complaint
letter in November 2019 included the following:
I wont tell to my next insurer you cancelled my policy
I consider that Mr A remained under a duty to take reasonable care to answer all insurers
questions correctly.
Theres not enough evidence for me to say that it was the Hastings cancellation (rather
than other factors) that caused Mr A to pay the increased premium of about £660.00.
And Im now satisfied that Hastings didnt treat Mr A unfairly by cancelling the policy. So
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Hasting to pay any compensation for financial
loss in regard to the increased premium or the Hastings fees.
As Im now satisfied that Hastings didnt treat Mr A unfairly by cancelling the policy, I no
longer find it fair and reasonable to direct Hastings to write a letter to Mr A confirming that it 
incorrectly cancelled his policy and that it has asked the insurance company to remove any 
record of the cancellation from internal and external databases.
As Im now satisfied that Hastings didnt treat Mr A unfairly by cancelling the policy, I no
longer find it fair and reasonable to direct Hastings to pay Mr A compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Hastings Insurance Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman