DRN-2755217
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold the Life Cover and Critical Illness Cover
(CIC) element of their Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) by Bank of Scotland trading
as Halifax, referred to as the business.
In short, they say:
They were led to believe that the policy would aid the success of their application.
They had employee benefits, as well as existing private Life Cover and CIC from 
another plan, so they didnt need the additional cover.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 22 February 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms 
part of this final decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs H say, Im not
persuaded that the recommendation was unsuitable.
But before I explain further why this is the case, its important for me to note I recognise Mr
and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed submissions to
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr and
Mrs H wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and
not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by them and the business, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation
and best industry practice but Im not bound by this. But its for me to decide, based on the
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what they say, Im not persuaded that
Mr and Mrs H had existing Life Cover and CIC in place at the point of sale in 2003  
therefore
on balance Im satisfied that there was a need to protect their new mortgage.
Even if Mr and Mrs H had £200,000 worth of existing cover  despite what Mr H says Ive
seen no evidence of this, and I dont know what it was for. The adviser can only advise on
the basis of the information provided, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business was
aware of any existing cover. If Mr and Mrs H failed to provide information about their
(substantial) existing cover, I cant blame the business for this. In the circumstances I cant
say that the business wouldve deliberately ignored this key information if brought to its
attention.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that the business doesnt have a copy of the
documents they say they sent. But businesses arent required to retain information
indefinitely, therefore whilst I dont blame Mr H for not having a copy of the paperwork, I also
cant blame the business for not having a copy of documentation that it may (or may not)
have been sent some 15 years ago relating to a third-party policy.
Im mindful of what Mr H says about being able to cancel the CIC element of the policy in
2005, and what it (potentially) suggests, but I dont agree. A business is obliged to cancel a
policy or any part of a policy, if instructed to do so by the customer. It doesnt generally have
the authority to cancel unless the customer instructs it to do so, or the customer is in default
with payment or some other condition. In this instance the business wouldve only cancelled
the policy because it was instructed to do so, and its terms and conditions allowed it to, not
because it agreed with Mr and Mrs H that CIC wasnt needed.
I note in 2004, a year after the policy was taken out, the Life and CIC element was increased
to £80,000  to take account of the £20,000 held on retention  before the CIC element
(only) was cancelled in 2005. In my opinion this behaviour doesnt suggest that Mr and
Mrs H didnt want/need Life Cover and CIC, or that they only took it out because they had to.
I note Mr and Mrs H say that the advisor shouldve taken into account their employee
benefits when making the recommendation. I agree with our investigator that employee
benefits are not generally regarded as an adequate replacement for life cover, because
these benefits arent guaranteed.
It would have been the case that employee benefits (such as death in service benefits or
sickness benefits) would have only been available for the duration that the life assured
remained in that particular employment, whereas the policy would continue to run as long as
the premiums were paid. I appreciate that if the life assured left the employment, they could
still obtain insurance elsewhere, but the recommended policy provided immediate cover for
as long as the premiums were paid.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H had reasonably good and steady jobs, and at the time they could
(probably) continue to pay the mortgage if one of them passed away. But there were no
guarantees that their financial situation wouldnt change over time and that at some point
they wouldnt be able to deal with the mortgage.
This type of policy was designed to remove the necessity for the survivor to rely upon other
sources to repay borrowing and to ensure the retention of the family home. Im therefore
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H.
I note Mr and Mrs H say that they were advised they needed to take out the policy in order to
secure the mortgage/a good mortgage deal. Im mindful of their recollection in that regard.
However, the business says it wasnt a condition of the borrowing. Its difficult to know what
was said in a meeting over 15 years ago. Having regard to the available evidence, Im
satisfied the Life Cover and CIC within the TMPP wasnt in fact a condition of the mortgage.
And Mr and Mrs H werent bound to follow the advice given. They were free to obtain advice
from any provider of their choice.
I should clarify that although the level term assurance policy broadly matched the term and
amount of the mortgage  they didnt want to cover an addition £20,000 from the outset that
was on retention  a policy set up on a decreasing term assurance wouldve (technically)
been suitable, because the level of benefit wouldve reduced in line with the mortgage until
the end of the term. So, I can see why the complaint was upheld by the investigator and
proposed redress recommended.
But I also note that only a level term version of the TMPP was available at the time, Iunderstand a decreasing term assurance wasnt available until 2007. Perhaps the business
couldve better explained this to Mr and Mrs H.
I know from having dealt with similar cases in the past, the business has only been able to
calculate a directly equivalent priced policy. It compared the cover with the closest
equivalent product available within the wider group and has subsequently confirmed that the
level term was cheaper than the decreasing term assurance  because the TMPP was
competitively priced and subject to different underwriting. On that basis Im minded to say
that Mr and Mrs H are unlikely to have suffered financial loss. If the business provides
information to the contrary, I will reconsider my decision.
In other words, Im satisfied that its possible that a decreasing term assurance policy outside
of the TMPP might have been more expensive than a level term assurance policy within it.
Im mindful the business says that a separate premium was charged for each element of the
plan and then combined to produce a monthly cost, which would suggest Mr and Mrs H most
likely got a level-term cover for the price of a decreasing-term cover.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs H say Im unable to
safely say that they were told they would get a better mortgage deal if they took the policy.
Notwithstanding what they say, Ive seen no evidence that they were told the policy was a
condition of their mortgage, so its unlikely to have made a difference. Im mindful the CIC
element was only cancelled roughly two years after taking out the policy.
Im conscious Mr H says a previous complaint  about his credit card  was upheld, but that
doesnt mean that this complaint should be upheld.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different
conclusion to the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to
hear. But on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this
complaint and give them what they want.
The business hasnt provided any further submissions. 
Mr and Mrs H also havent provided any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
In light of no further responses from the parties, Im still satisfied that the key points remain 
the same, and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision, 
and in the circumstances, Ive not been dissuaded from rejecting this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provision decision, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman