DRN-3448215
The complaint
Mr H complains about his discretionary managed investment with London Stone Securities 
Limited (LSS). He says:
The investment was inappropriate for his medium level of risk. 
The investment selection was unsuitable.
The investment timing was inappropriate.
He didnt receive clear information about the fees. And it is possible investment decisions 
were made to generate fees.
His money was invested into seven shareholdings. Two were sold within a few weeks at 
a small profit. The remaining shares all showed losses before he transferred them out.
He wants an apology, fees of £1,900 refunded, and compensation of £2,100 for the loss 
showing on the investments when he transferred them out.
What happened
Mr H had investments which he managed himself on an execution only basis. He told us 
hed become interested in LSSs strategy and approach to investment in UK equities and, 
after several discussions, he decided to transfer his ISA to LSS to be managed on a 
discretionary basis. He told LSS that, if it demonstrated strong performance, he might 
consider investing further money.
A private client profile (PCP) was completed. It shows Mr H was looking for capital 
growth/balanced return; that he had a medium/high attitude to risk; and that he was 
interested in investment in FTSE 100, FTSE 250, UK small cap and AIM shares.
LSS invested in seven shareholdings  four FTSE 100 stocks, and three AIM stocks. Around 
five weeks later, two of these holdings were sold for a small profit. Mr H became concerned 
about LSSs approach and asked it to cease trading. He then decided to transfer his 
shareholdings out and close his account.
LSS didnt uphold his complaint. It said:
The fees were made clear before Mr H agreed to open an account.
The account was managed on a discretionary basis, so there was no requirement for 
LSS to discuss the investment choices with Mr H before they were made.
The investment wasnt unsuitable for Mr Hs circumstances and his agreed risk profile 
and investment objectives. It was made clear that, due to the small size of the account, 
LSS would be restricted to a small number of holdings.
LSS isnt responsible for investments falling in value.
LSS decided there were good investment opportunities which is why it invested in the 
market quickly after the money was transferred to it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
investment was aligned to Mr Hs risk profile and that the relevant fees information had been 
provided to him. He couldnt conclude LLS had done anything wrong.
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The information hes provided demonstrates that LSS lacks competence and invests 
without a strategy; that it lacks appropriate care in investing clients money; and that it 
takes inappropriate risks.
He suggested we should investigate whether LSS had a documented plan of strategy for 
his portfolio, what investment options were considered, how it makes judgements about 
investment opportunities, and whether the deals in his portfolio were made within the 
agreed investment framework.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, our investigator has already explained our role and why we cant comment on the 
way LSS operates. Mr H is aware that if he has wider concerns about LSSs operations, he 
can raise these with the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to consider the individual 
circumstances of his complaint and to decide if LSS has done anything wrong, and whether 
its treated Mr H fairly and reasonably.
Fees and charges
Im satisfied that fees were discussed during Mr Hs meeting with LSS. I say that because 
the PCP records that fees were explained and there is a reference to full details being set 
out in LSSs Schedule of Charges. But I cant say with any certainty exactly what was 
discussed. And, when the PCP and other documents were sent to Mr H, he queried the fees, 
saying:
I also notice that there is a £2,000 charge in year 1 and £1,000 subsequently. Is that 
over and above the £100 per trade? That was never mentioned to me.
LSS told Mr H that he was notified of its fees but clarified that he would be charged 1% each 
year, in addition to transaction charges. So, even if the fees werent made clear during the 
meeting  and Mr H admitted he may have missed it - Im satisfied that they were made 
clear very shortly afterwards. And I can see that Mr H signed to confirm he had read and 
accepted LSSs Schedule of Charges. 
LSS charged its fees in line with that agreed schedule of charges. So I dont find theres any 
obligation on it to refund any fees or charges.
Was the investment suitable for Mr H?Mr H had invested for a number of years on an execution only basis. He had experience of 
investment in fixed income, collective investment schemes and shares, including AIM and 
penny shares. Im satisfied that he had enough experience to understand the investment 
LSS recommended, its investment strategy, and to understand the risks involved.
Mr H wanted to invest for growth. He told us he was using LSS for their expertise in UK 
shares. I can see he also wanted to use LSS to see if it could out-perform the investments 
he had chosen himself. His attitude to risk was assessed as medium/high. And his 
tolerance for capital loss was agreed to be 40/50%, being the maximum loss he was 
prepared to accept in his portfolio.
The portfolio with LSS represented less than 10% of Mr Hs funds available for investment. 
Taking that into account, and the fact that Mr H was using this small portion of his overall 
investment as a trial with LSS, I dont think medium/high for this investment was an 
inappropriate assessment of his attitude to risk, or unsuitable for him.
LSS invested in seven stocks  four were FTSE 100 stocks, which were seen as low risk; 
and three were higher risk AIM shares. Mr H complains that the investments were made too 
quickly. But theres nothing to suggest there was any reason to delay the investment. 
Viewed in isolation, the investment may not have been sufficiently diversified. But this 
investment only reflected a portion of Mr Hs overall investment. And I think its clear from the 
communication between the parties that Mr H was comfortable with direct investment in a 
small number of shares because he wanted to see how LSSs stock choices compared with 
his own.
Im satisfied that, overall, the investment was made in line with Mr Hs agreed investment 
objectives and attitude to risk.
Share sales
LSS sold two of Mr Hs shares a few weeks after they were purchased, realising a small 
profit. Mr H says that, when he queried these sales, he was told they were made to build up 
some cash reserve.
Ive considered this very carefully because the sales took place only a few weeks after the 
shares were bought, and Mr H had to pay £100 commission for each transaction. 
The PCP gave Mr H the opportunity to choose whether he preferred to hold shares for the 
short, medium, or long term, or to be flexible. He chose flexible meaning his approach 
would vary depending on the investment opportunities which arose. I think this reflects his 
intention of giving LSS the opportunity to show him how it could perform with a small 
proportion of his money over a relatively short term.
I dont find the sales were unsuitable against the background of market conditions at the 
time, LSSs strategy, and Mr Hs flexible approach to the holding of shares. LSS explained 
that:
A crackdown on Chinas tech sector wasnt enough to dampen the mood in the stock 
market and we saw a modest gain today. However any growth is tempered and the 
FTSE100 sits tightly within a predefined range. We have seen this play out several 
times over the past few months. With this in mind we are going to continue to adopt a 
passive-aggressive approach to investing i.e. on dips we will buy and on rallies we 
will be selling. In recent weeks/months if some of our purchase prices have been a 
little higher than we would have liked, and so if we are sitting on paper losses, please be reminded that we will be selling once we get the opportunity to come out of the 
position at no loss. In other words if you see a position where there is a very small 
profit please remember that its likely because either a) the stock was down heavily 
before and has recovered to a break-even point or b) we are close to the top of the 
range and so it makes sense to sell and release cash. Only if and when the market 
shows continued strength is it sensible to hold positions for longer.
I find the sales did align with LSSs published strategy, whereby it aims to buy during market 
dips and sell during rallies. The frequency of trades may have been more than Mr H was 
used to, but that didnt make them unsuitable. And Im satisfied that Mr H did make a small 
profit, even taking the commission costs into account.
Portfolio performance
As noted above, this service cant consider matters of a firms operations or matters of an 
investments performance. 
Mr H chose to withdraw his investments after just a few weeks and when they were, 
unfortunately, showing a loss. I dont think LSS was given long enough to demonstrate to 
Mr H whether its investment approach and strategy produced the results hed hoped for. And 
I dont find the decisions it made on his behalf were unsuitable, or that Mr H was treated 
unfairly or unreasonably, whilst his funds were being managed by LSS.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman