DRN-3059299
The complaint
Mr D says esure Insurance Limited unfairly refused a claim he made on his car insurance 
policy.
Mr Ds complaint has been brought to us by his representative.  
What happened
In November 2020, Mr Ds home was burgled, and items were stolen including his car key. 
The car itself wasnt stolen at the time.
Mr D looked into changing the car locks but found the cost of doing so prohibitive. So 
instead, he chose to keep the car at his parents house for the next four weeks where it was 
kept behind locked gates when not in use. For around four weeks after that, Mr D brought 
the car back to his home and generally kept it blocked in with another car for added security. 
Unfortunately, on one of the occasions that the car wasnt blocked in, it was stolen.
Mr D contacted esure to make a claim on his policy. esure investigated the claim but decided 
not to pay it. It explained to Mr D that, in its view, he hadnt taken reasonable steps to 
protect and secure his car from loss or damage as required by the policy. That was because 
he hadnt changed the locks and had made no provision for when he wasnt blocking in his 
car.
Unhappy with esures decision, Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. They felt that esure hadnt 
produced enough evidence to show Mr D hadnt taken reasonable care or that his actions 
led to the claim. The investigator asked esure to settle the claim in line with the policy terms 
and pay £150 as compensation for the stress and inconvenience it had caused him.
esure didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said it had been entitled to decline the 
claim as it had, given Mr D accepted hed made no attempt to protect the car when it wasnt 
blocked in. And also because Mr D hadnt changed the locks in that time. 
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point for me is to consider the policy terms, and especially those esures relied 
on to decline the claim, to determine whether it acted fairly. The terms include:
Taking care of your care
You must:
take reasonable steps to protect and secure your car and its contents from loss 
or damage 
I think these policy terms raise two important questions in the context of Mr Ds claim: firstly, 
could it be said that he took reasonable steps to protect and secure his car from theft? And 
secondly, if he didnt take such steps, could it be said that his failure to do so likely led to its 
theft (and his subsequent claim)? 
Regarding the first question Ive taken into account that, given Mr Ds car key had been 
stolen, I think he accepted the need for additional security measures. I think he felt his car 
was at greater risk of being stolen once the key had been taken and that he ought not, for a 
time at least, keep it on his own drive. 
It seems that for around the first four weeks after the burglary took place, Mr D kept the car 
at his parents home. While there, I gather the car was kept behind a locked gate. I consider 
that to be a reasonable precautionary step.
For around the next four weeks, it seems the car was brought back to Mr Ds drive for 
reasons connected with the COVID-19 pandemic and that, for most of that time, he 
intentionally kept it blocked in by another car. Again, Im satisfied that was a reasonable step 
to take. 
As I expect many people would after the key was stolen, Mr D obtained quotes to change his 
car locks, and these came to around £700. Finding the cost prohibitive, Mr D decided 
against changing the locks and chose instead to implement the above measures.
To many people  no doubt including Mr D  £700 is a lot of money, even in relation to an 
asset as expensive as a car. Its enough to lead me to think many people would have 
decided not to go ahead with the work and either chosen to accept the existing risk or  as 
Mr D did  take alternative action. To keep the car at another address for around four weeks 
was, in my view, a considerable amount of time. After that, his car was kept on his drive but 
was blocked in for significant periods, and for around another four weeks.
While, in an ideal world, Mr D would have gone ahead and changed the locks, I cant fairly 
say that failing to do so meant he was no longer taking reasonable steps to protect and 
secure the car. I think its important to remember that he wasnt required by the policy to take 
all steps  just the steps that could be described as reasonable. The policy doesnt define 
the latter and I can understand why since whats reasonable will depend on the 
circumstances of each case. 
In this case, I believe Mr D took steps that could fairly be described as reasonable in the 
circumstances.
In the light of these findings, I dont need to go on and consider whether Mr Ds actions likely 
led to the theft of his car. But, even if I did think Mr D hadnt taken reasonable steps, I dont 
believe esures shown there to be a link between any failure to take those steps and the 
loss.
Thats because theres little evidence as to how Mr Ds car was stolen. As I understand it, 
national statistics suggest keys are used in most vehicle thefts. But I gather a substantial 
proportion of thefts still occur without keys  and its possible Mr Ds car was stolen without 
the key. Although esures explained why it believes the key was used, theres little evidence 
to support its theory.Ive also kept in mind that when Mr Ds home was burgled, the perpetrator(s) took his car 
key at the time. I find it unlikely that the perpetrator(s) chose not to take his car at that time 
and instead decided to wait until another (presumably better or equally good) opportunity 
presented itself  if it was ever going to present itself again  to take Mr Ds car as well as 
the other possessions they did take.    
Taking everything into account, I dont think it was fair for esure to rely on the relevant policy 
term in declining Mr Ds claim.
Finally, Ive little doubt that esures decision impacted Mr D and caused him unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. He was already dealing with the fact that his home had been 
burgled and later had the misfortune of having his car stolen. esure formally declined the 
claim in March 2021 and this had led to a significant delay in his claim progressing as it 
otherwise would have. 
As compensation for the impact of all this on Mr D, I think esure should pay him £150.  
Putting things right
I believe esure should: 
Reconsider Mr Ds claim without reference to the relevant policy term but in line with 
the remaining policy terms and conditions; and 
Pay Mr D £150 for the distress and inconvenience its actions, and the delay they led 
to, have caused him.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance 
Limited to put things right as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman