DRN-3412161
The complaint
Mr N complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited recorded a missed payment for his 
motor insurance policy on his credit record. He wants this removed. 
What happened
Mr N called Admiral to cancel his policy and he was told not to cancel his direct debit until a 
final payment had been taken. Unfortunately, Mr N cancelled his direct debit, a payment was 
missed, and Admiral recorded this on his credit record. Mr N said this was an honest mistake 
and he thought Admirals action had been harsh.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr N 
had made an honest mistake. But he thought Admiral was required to make an accurate 
record of the management of his account. And so he didnt think Admiral had acted 
incorrectly by recording the missed payment. 
Mr N disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr N feels upset and frustrated by Admirals decision. He has 
explained that the missed payment marker on his credit record may affect his ability to obtain 
a mortgage. 
Mr N cancelled his policy via Admirals webchat after he sold his car. Ive looked at the 
webchat record. I can see that Mr N was told that he still had a final amount to pay and that 
he shouldnt cancel the direct debit until this had been processed. I think this instruction was 
clear and Mr N confirmed the amount to the agent. But Mr N did cancel his direct debit 
before the payment was taken. And so a payment was missed. 
So, I cant fairly say Admiral has done anything wrong in reporting a missed payment. I can 
understand that Mr N feels this is harsh and that he made an honest mistake. But 
businesses have a duty to report accurate information. And so I cant ask Admiral to remove 
information that is correctly reported.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman