DRN-2695520
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vitality Health Limited has turned down claims and ultimately cancelled 
his personal private medical insurance policy.
Mr Ms represented by Ms A.
What happened
On 9 October 2019, Ms A called Vitality to obtain a quote for a personal private medical 
insurance policy for Mr M. The following day, Ms A spoke with Vitality to discuss the quote 
further. Subsequently, on 17 October 2019, both Ms A and Mr M spoke with Vitality again 
and agreed to take up the policy. During the call, Ms A and Mr M completed a medical 
screening. They declared that Mr M suffered from high cholesterol and Vitality agreed to 
cover this condition. The policy start date was backdated to 9 October 2019.
Shortly after the policy was set-up, Mr M made a claim on the policy for a referral to a 
consultant haematologist, following abnormal blood test results. While Vitality was looking 
into Mr Ms claim, he later suffered from an unrelated medical condition and made a second 
claim.
Ultimately, Vitality turned down Mr Ms claims, cancelled his policy and refunded the 
premiums hed paid from the start. Itd obtained medical evidence which showed that Mr M 
had first had a blood test on 3 October 2019, which had showed abnormalities. Hed been 
scheduled in for a repeat blood test on 11 October 2019 and following the results, the 
referral to the haematologist had followed on 16 October 2019. As Mr M hadnt told it about 
his referral during the medical screening (or that hed previously been diagnosed with 
lymphocytosis in 2017), Vitality concluded that Mr M had failed to declare all of the 
information it wanted to know. It also concluded that thered been a breach of the policy 
fraud condition.
Mr M and Ms A werent happy with Vitalitys decision and so Ms A asked us to look into Mr 
Ms complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Vitality had treated Mr M unfairly. She referred to the relevant 
law  the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and 
how it applied to the circumstances of Mr Ms claim. She considered Vitality had asked clear 
questions during the sales process, which she didnt think Ms A or Mr M had taken 
reasonable care to answer. And she considered that theyd deliberately failed to accurately 
answer its questions. So she thought Vitality had acted fairly by refusing the claims; 
cancelling the policy and refunding Mr Ms premium.
Ms A disagreed on Mr Ms behalf. She felt that the investigator had doubted their honesty 
and had made assumptions. She said Mr M had simply been asked to have a repeat blood 
test, with no explanation as to why. She told us she thought she had declared the routine 
blood test and that the sales agent had been pushy. If they had been seeking to mislead 
Vitality, they wouldnt have told it about Mr Ms high cholesterol. She felt that the 
investigators assessment was baseless and compromised.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I dont think Vitality has treated him 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
When Mr M took out the policy by phone, he and Ms A were asked information about himself 
and his medical conditions. Vitality used this information to decide whether or not to insure 
Mr M and if so, on what terms.
Vitality says that Mr M (and Ms A on his behalf) didnt correctly answer the questions they 
were asked during the medical screening. This means the principles set out in CIDRA are 
relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of 
Mr Ms claims. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to answer an insurers 
questions correctly and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So I listened closely to the 
sales call between Mr M, Ms A and Vitality to find out what questions were asked during the 
sales process.
Vitalitys own review of Mr Ms complaint led it to conclude that its sales agent didnt handle 
the call of 9 October 2019 as well as they shouldve done. Having reviewed a transcript of 
that call, which was between Vitality and Ms A, it does appear that at times, the sales agent 
was abrupt and unclear. And it seems that during that call, Ms A mayve believed more that 
she was answering questions about whether her husband had been hospitalised, rather than 
being asked about any existing conditions. Im also not persuaded that at this particular 
point, shed have necessarily understood that the scheduled repeat blood test needed to be 
declared.
However, I then turned to carefully consider the sales call of 17 October 2019. This call was 
much clearer. During this call, the sales agent referred back to the previous quotes. They 
asked whether Mr M had suffered any problems in between the 9 October 2019 and that 
date and explained that if he had, these wouldnt be covered. Ms A replied, No, no, no, no 
no. The agent reiterated that if Mr M had had any health issues during that period, these 
wouldnt be covered. They later asked:
Are you awaiting on any medical test results? Follow-up consultation, treatment, 
investigations?
Mr M answered no. The agent followed this question by asking:
Any blood disorders, anaemia, or leukaemia? Again, Mr M answered no.
Subsequently, Mr M was asked: in the last five years, have you or any other person being 
insured experienced symptoms or received advice from a healthcare professional? Or received treatment or had treatment including prescribed or over the counter medication for 
any condition other than what we already know sir? The cholesterol.
Mr M replied, No. Never. No. Nothing.
In my view, having listened carefully to this call, Vitalitys sales agent did ask Mr M clear 
questions in an understandable way. I appreciate that English is not Mr Ms first language 
and so Ms A supported him through the medical screening. But its clear that Ms A was 
listening to Mr Ms answers and it seems she understood what was being said (especially 
taking into account her earlier discussions with Vitality). Indeed, at one point, she did 
translate a question that the agent had asked. So I think if shed thought Mr M hadnt 
properly understood what was being asked, or had provided the wrong answer, it was open 
to her correct this.
Vitality maintains that in addition to the condition that Mr M did declare, he should also have 
disclosed the repeat blood test and referral to the haematologist. So Ive looked at the 
available medical evidence and thought about what Ms As told us about Mr Ms medical 
history to decide whether I think they took reasonable care to answer Vitalitys questions.
Mr Ms GP confirmed that Mr Ms first blood test was scheduled as a routine appointment. 
However, this flagged up abnormalities and so, a repeat test was scheduled for 11 October 
2019  two days after Ms A first called Vitality for a quote. I dont think I could safely say that 
at this point Ms A ought to have realised that Vitality would want to know about a repeat 
blood test.
But the claim form completed by the GP shows that Mr M was referred to a private 
haematologist on 16 October 2019, following a raised white blood cell and lymphocyte count. 
This was only the day before the policy was taken out and backdated to a week earlier. He 
was seen by a private consultant haematologist two days later.  At the point Mr M was 
referred to the haematologist, I think both he and Ms A were aware that he was under 
investigation and also that he was going to be incurring private medical costs. So I find they 
ought reasonably to have declared the referral to the consultant haematologist during the full 
medical screening on the following day. Ive also noted that the haematologists letter of 18 
October 2019 provides a diagnosis of lymphocytosis since 2017.  On this basis then, Im 
satisfied that Mr M and Ms A ought to have told Vitality about the diagnosis he received in 
2017.
So I think its clear that Mr Ms referral (and previous diagnosis) do fall within the scope of 
Vitalitys questions. And considering everything, I think those questions were clear enough 
that Mr M and Ms A shouldve been prompted to tell it what it wanted to know.
Overall, I think Mr M and Ms A did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I 
think Vitality is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the Act. Vitality 
concluded that Mr M and Ms A deliberately sought to mislead it about his health. Based on 
the available medical evidence; the clarity of the questions Mr M and Ms A were asked; the 
fact they knew hed been referred privately for investigation the day before and so would 
almost certainly be making a claim, and the request to backdate the start date of the policy 
to prior to the repeat blood test and referral, I think this was a reasonable conclusion for 
Vitality to reach.
CIDRA says, in cases of deliberate misrepresentation, if the insurer would not have entered 
into the contract at all, its entitled to cancel the policy from the start and keep the premiums 
a policyholder has paid. Vitality has told me that had Ms A and Mr M told it about the referral, 
it wouldve declined to offer him any cover until his blood abnormality had been resolved. At 
which point, it wouldve referred the matter onto its medical team, where it would most likely have refused to insure him. On this basis, on balance, Im satisfied that Vitality wouldnt have 
offered Mr M a policy had he told it about his referral. This means I think it was reasonable 
for Vitality to cancel the policy from the start and turn down Mr Ms claims. Id add that 
strictly, Vitality couldve retained Mr Ms premiums under the provisions of the Act  it wasnt 
required to refund them. So I think its acted more than fairly here.
I appreciate Ms A and Mr M are unhappy that Vitality invoked its fraud condition in its 
response to the first claim. Given the concerns Ive outlined above, I dont think it was unfair 
for it to do so. Id add though that Vitality has confirmed that it hasnt recorded any fraud 
markers relating to Mr M with any other insurers. I hope therefore that this puts Mr Ms mind 
at rest on this point.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ms position, Ive decided Vitality hasnt treated him 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman