DRN-3729719
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by PSP Wealth Management Ltd (PSP) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
Mr J is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely refer 
to representations as being made by Mr J.
What happened
PSPs notes indicate that Mr J was introduced to them by another business to discuss his 
retirement provisions, as that other business wasnt authorised to give advice in relation to 
DB pension schemes. 
On 6 November 2013, PSP completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js 
circumstances and objectives. This said that Mr J had little understanding of his DB scheme 
and wanted to establish if it was still suitable for him. It then recorded though, despite this 
earlier comment, that Mr J agreed with PSP that the level of performance and available 
investment choices within the DB scheme was poor. PSP said he wanted to maximise his 
benefits at retirement and turn around this poor performance, taking a modern, relevant, 
cost-effective plan with a good level of investment growth. It said he expected to require an 
income of £19,000 per year in retirement. PSP also said Mr J wanted immediate access to 
25% of the pension fund as tax-free cash (TFC) but didnt want to take an income. It said 
the TFC was to be used for the repayment of debts but details of these were not recorded in 
the fact find. PSP has said that this was because they were debts to family members.
The fact-find recorded that, at the time of the advice, Mr J was 56, employed full time, 
married and in good health with no dependents. He and his wife owned their own home and 
PSP recorded that Mr J also had a further £20,000 in investments. The fact find didnt record 
any outstanding liabilities, such as a mortgage. Nor did it record any other pension 
arrangements, other than his DB scheme. Mr Js income was said to be exceeding his 
outgoings by just over £700.  
PSP also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk, which it deemed to be high 
medium or a 6 on a scale of 1 to 10. 
A transfer value quotation was obtained from the trustees of the DB scheme. This said that 
the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Js benefits was £91,905.57.
On 19 November 2013, PSP advised Mr J to transfer his pension benefits into a capped 
drawdown personal pension, take the maximum available TFC and begin drawing an 
income. PSP said Mr J intended to retire around nine years after the advice but wanted 
access to the maximum available TFC immediately, without taking an income, in order to 
repay some personal debts. The level of those debts was again not noted. PSP said Mr J 
didnt have a need for an income, but this could be recycled into the pension, by way of 
regular contributions which it indicated would create no tax liability but generate a further tax-
free sum in the future. It said other options for paying debts had been discounted as Mr J did 
not want to take on any further borrowing. It also said Mr J didnt want to use funds held in a 
bank account as he considered these a contingency but then went on to say he had no other 
investments or assets. The recommendation letter said that another of Mr Js objectives was 
to maximise the death benefits the pension would provide. 
PSP reiterated Mr J had a high medium attitude to risk but also stated that the DB scheme 
was his only personal retirement plan and that significant losses would impact his standard 
of living in retirement. Even with this in mind though it still recommended a transfer as it felt 
this best achieved Mr Js goals. 
Mr J complained in 2021 to PSP about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he was 
an inexperienced investor and didnt think his circumstances and needs had been 
appropriately considered by PSP. He didnt think the reasons for transferring, in particular 
accessing a lump sum, meant that a transfer was in his best interests. And Mr J said he 
couldnt afford to risk the guarantees the DB scheme provided or accept lower retirement 
benefits which he now thought was always likely to happen.
In response PSP said Mr J did have other retirement provisions, including entitlement to a 
state pension and accessing a lump sum to address debt was very important to him. It also 
said Mr J had been given warnings about the risks involved. So, PSP said it felt it had 
provided correct advice at the time and given this and the inaccuracies it believed were 
present in the complaint, it didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. Hes said he didnt understand his pension 
arrangements when speaking to PSP but the offer of TFC sounded like a good idea. 
However, Mr J says he didnt have any debts to his family, as PSP has suggested, at the 
time of the advice and had no need to access TFC. He says he did have an outstanding 
mortgage, although this wasnt recorded by PSP, which he thinks demonstrates that it didnt 
properly assess his circumstances. He confirmed he did have another pension arrangement 
and took benefits from this at age 60 due to ill health.
An investigator considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld, and PSP 
should compensate Mr J for any loss the transfer had led to. She thought Mr J was always 
likely to receive lower retirement benefits as a result of transferring, which she didnt think 
was made as clear as it shouldve been, and she didnt think he was as willing to take risk as 
PSP had suggested. In addition, she didnt think transferring to achieve alternative death 
benefits was suitable. And on the subject of TFC, as Mr J had said he didnt need this to 
repay debts and PSP had recorded very limited information at the time, she didnt think there 
was enough to say this was a genuine need. So, she didnt think a transfer was in Mr Js 
best interests.
PSP disagreed. It said Mr J had wanted retirement advice, a flexible pension with access to 
the maximum possible tax-free cash and had discounted alternatives and taking an annuity. 
It said that alternative death benefits were not a main consideration by PSP for 
recommending a transfer. PSP maintained that the DB scheme was not a significant part of 
Mr Js retirement provisions as he had a pension with his current employer that would meet 
the majority of his income needs so he had capacity for loss.  
PSP said Mr J had made it aware of wanting to clear debt at the time, and it considered this 
a genuine objective. Given the nature of these debts were private though, it didnt think it 
needed to record any further information. And it said Mr Js objective was to achieve advice 
on the scheme and his retirement options at the time. So, what the DB scheme would 
provide at the normal scheme retirement age and the critical yield were not a relevant 
consideration and PSP says it did not advise him on improving his benefits at the normal scheme retirement age. Lastly it questioned whether the complaint had been made too late 
according to our rules.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the issue of whether the complaint had been made too late. But explained to 
PSP that, based on the information available, I didnt think it had. I invited PSP to send any 
further comments if it disagreed. But it did not respond. As a result, Ive gone on to look at 
the merits of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PSP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
PSP has said that Mr J wanted a flexible pension. So, its advice was based on this and what 
he could get at the point of the advice. And as a result, what the DB scheme couldve 
provided at the normal retirement date was not relevant.
Firstly, Mr J said he didnt understand his pension and wanted advice about it. And indeed, 
one of the first things the fact find recorded, in the Reason for Review, was that Mr J had a 
preserved occupational pension which they have little understanding of how this pension 
operates or if it remains suitable. 
I also note that the fact find said Mr J agreed with the adviser that the past performance and 
available choices in their existing pension fund was poor. If this statement was correct, that 
the parties agreed this, I think this in fact further enforces that Mr J didnt understand the 
pension he had. Because in a DB scheme the pension holder doesnt choose investments or 
rely on fund performance. The pension benefits in a DB scheme are defined by the pension holders salary and length of service while they were an employee of the relevant business. 
And the pension scheme guarantees to provide a level of benefits based on this  which 
normally escalates until and in retirement  with the scheme bearing the risk as to whether 
there was enough funding to do so. 
Its difficult to therefore reconcile Mr J having a set idea of what he wanted, if he didnt 
understand the pension that he had. And more concerning is that making reference to 
investment choices being poor suggest a lack of understanding on PSPs part as well.
In any event though, it wasnt PSPs role to just put in place something Mr J mightve thought 
he wanted. Its role was to advise him on what was in his best interests.
And the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PSP should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
When referring to financial viability, I mean how likely it is that Mr J would be better off in 
terms of the retirement income he would receive, by transferring. Because moving from a DB 
scheme to a personal pension exposed his pension to risk that he wasnt otherwise subject 
to. So given this, and as a pensions primary purpose is to provide for the income needs of 
the holder in retirement, whether Mr J would be better off in retirement by transferring is, in 
my view, a relevant consideration when looking at what was in his best interests
The regulator required PSP to carry out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report at the time 
it gave advice. This included calculating how much Mr Js pension fund would need to grow 
by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). Ive 
seen a copy of the TVAS that was completed. But the suitability report made no reference to 
the critical yield calculated as part of that report. 
The suitability report did talk about a critical yield. But the figure quoted was how much the 
pension fund would need to grow by to match the annuity income Mr J could purchase at the 
time of the advice, from the provider PSP recommended, using the transfer value. This isnt 
what was required to be considered when giving advice, as it doesnt reflect the guaranteed 
benefits being given up. 
Again, PSP has argued that Mr J wasnt looking for advice on improving the benefits 
available at the normal scheme retirement age. And it says considering this is unfair as Mr J 
wasnt looking to obtain advice on future benefits. So, reference to this and the critical yield 
were not relevant. But the advice was to transfer and invest his pension fund. COBS 19.1.2 
specifically required a comparison to be made between what a DB scheme would likely 
provide and the benefits that would be received by transferring. It also required this to be 
explained to Mr J. And COBS 19.1.7A says the extent to which the new pension might fall 
short of providing these benefits should be clearly set out. So, I do not agree with PSP that 
this wasnt a reasonable consideration. And, while PSP says this wouldve been discussed 
with Mr J, I think it is concerning that a summary was not included in the suitability report, 
particularly when a TVAS was completed. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr J was 56 at the time of the advice. The TVAS showed that critical yield required to match 
Mr Js benefits at the normal scheme retirement age of 65 was 15.02% if he took a full 
pension and 10.93% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. This compares with the discount 
rate of 4.6% per year for eight full years to retirement. 
The TVAS also included a calculation of the critical yield if Mr J had wanted to retire at age 
60, five years sooner. This was 24.07% if he took a full pension or 20.86% if he took TFC 
and a reduced pension at that time. Which compares to a discount rate of 4.1% for three full 
years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
PSP said Mr J had a high medium attitude to risk. But our Investigator didnt think the 
information from the time necessarily supported this. While it has now been confirmed that 
Mr J did have other pension provisions, indicating he had some capacity for loss, I share 
some of the Investigators concerns about whether he truly had a high medium attitude to 
risk. I say this because, in the relevant risk questionnaire, I can see that Mr J disagreed with 
the statement that taking financial risks was important to him, and that hed be happy 
investing a large portion of his income / capital in high risk investments. And he also agreed 
that he would rather know he was getting a guaranteed return than be uncertain. And while 
he agreed that hed be willing to risk a percentage of his capital for a good investment return, 
what specific percentage was not discussed. 
There would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
even if Mr J did have a high medium attitude to risk, based on this attitude to risk, the 
critical yield, discount rate and its composition of assets and the time to retirement, I think 
Mr J was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme 
at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
So, from a financial viability perspective, I think a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in 
Mr Js best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Which PSP has argued here saying Mr J wanted 
flexibility and to obtain benefits straight away. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
PSP says Mr J wanted a flexible pension as he wanted to access the maximum TFC 
possible at the time of the advice, but didnt need an income as he intended to work to age 
65. It says he needed access to TFC to repay debts to his family. With the recommendation 
also recording he wanted to build up an emergency fund. It also says he expected to require 
an income of £19,000 per year in retirement.
Mr J says he had no set plans when contacting PSP and just wanted to understand more 
about his pension  which is something the fact find noted. He says he had no debts to 
family members. And he says PSP led him to believe that accessing TFC was a good idea, 
but this wasnt something he needed.
As Ive already noted, the fact find recorded that Mr J didnt understand his DB scheme 
pension and wanted to know if it was still suitable for him, which is what he has said when making his complaint. But it then went on to say that he knew what he wanted as an 
alternative. Notwithstanding that PSPs role wasnt to just put in place what Mr J mightve 
wanted, I think these statements are somewhat contradictory. And call into question which 
was accurate.
This isnt the only inconsistency in the information from the time. In the recommendation, 
PSP said Mr J wanted access to TFC to repay debt and to hold some money in reserve as 
an emergency fund as it said he didnt have one. It also said he had no other investments 
and, in respect of his financial experience said he had no other equity holdings. The fact find 
though recorded that Mr J held £20,000 as investments. And the suitability report said Mr J 
had some funds in a bank account. But hed discounted using these as an alternative as 
these were considered a contingency. Which suggests he already had an emergency fund. 
The fact find also didnt record any information about an outstanding mortgage and said he 
had no liabilities. But Mr J says he had an outstanding mortgage. The fact find did note a 
monthly expenditure of £2,875, which would be quite high if there were no set liabilities 
factored into that. But it appears PSP did not gather any information to show how this was 
broken down.
These contradictions, in my view, make it quite difficult to conclude that PSP had a clear 
understanding of Mr Js circumstances.
In turn this makes it difficult to say, on balance, if Mr J genuinely had debts that needed to be 
repaid. He said he didnt and PSP just led him to believe that accessing TFC was in his 
interests. Whereas PSP says he had debts to family that he wanted to repay.
The recommendation said Mr J wanted to access TFC to repay some personal debts. But 
gave no additional detail to this. I cant see that Mr J objected to this statement at the time. 
So, I think its likely, after the initial discussion with PSP, using TFC for this purpose mightve 
been something he considered. But I dont think it necessarily confirms he went into the 
discussions with PSP with this as an objective, particularly given what was recorded about 
him just wanting to know if what he already had was suitable.
PSP has said that it didnt record information about the debts Mr J wanted to repay because 
they were with family members. But this being a need that made the transfer suitable was 
the foundation of its advice. Again COB 19.1.6 says When advising a retail client who is, or 
is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits occupational pension scheme whether to 
transfer or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be 
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests. And without details of exactly how much the apparent debts were, I dont think 
PSP has done enough to show, based on evidence, that transferring to address these debts 
was in Mr Js interests.Transferring allowed Mr J to access TFC of £22,969.39. But again, the recommendation 
indicated that repaying debt wasnt the only reason for taking this money. So, it seems 
reasonable to assume that any debt was less than this. And again, the fact find recorded that 
Mr J had approximately £20,000 set aside. Which, on balance, seems to have been 
sufficient to potentially repay debts, if in fact they existed. There was also the option of 
borrowing from a conventional lender to achieve this goal. And I can see an early retirement 
quote was also obtained from the DB scheme which said Mr J could take benefits at that 
time and draw TFC of £12,862.07. Due to PSPs failure to record more information, it isnt 
clear if this wouldve been sufficient to clear the debts it has referred to. But I note that the 
recommendation didnt rule this out on the basis of that amount being insufficient. Instead, it 
said Mr J didnt want to take an income at that time. So, it doesnt appear, in my view, that 
Mr J needed to access more TFC.
PSP has said that these other options for accessing funds were ruled out by Mr J as he 
didnt want to do any of these things. But again PSPs, role wasnt to just put in place what 
Mr J wanted, but to advise him what was in his best interests. And based on the information 
Ive seen I dont think there is enough to say that transferring for this purpose was in his best 
interests.
PSP also recorded that Mr J wanted to achieve an income of £19,000 per year. And it said 
he intended to work until age 65, so his salary would meet his income needs until that time. 
The TVAS estimated at age 65, Mr J would receive a full pension of £8,377 per year from 
the DB scheme, which wouldve continued to escalate while in payment. This would have 
fallen short of what he expected to need. But, as Ive already explained, he was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk. So, I 
dont think transferring was in his interests, based on this objective.
PSP has since said that he didnt need to retain his DB scheme to help towards his income 
in retirement, as he had other provisions. And it says, based on his length of service with his 
employer, it was reasonable to assume this would meet his income needs. But this highlights 
another inconsistency in the information from the time. The fact find didnt record that Mr J 
had any other pensions  despite there being a section for this information to be noted. The 
recommendation letter also included the statement that the DB scheme was Mr Js only 
personal retirement plan. Which doesnt support that this was a consideration at the time.
Im satisfied that Mr J did have another pension arrangement at the time of the advice. He 
has confirmed he did. And Ive seen evidence suggesting PSP contacted the trustees of that 
other scheme at the time to check if it accepted transfers into the scheme. But beyond that, 
no further information was gathered about its value or the expected benefits it would provide. 
So, I dont agree with PSP that it was reasonable to assume that this wouldve provided the 
income Mr J required, and I certainly dont think the evidence supports that this was a 
reason for its recommendation at the time of the advice.
Even though PSP said Mr J didnt want an income from the pension, it recommended he 
draw on and recycle this into his pension. The purpose of this seems to have been to 
potentially allow him to take a further tax-free sum at a later date. But I cant see that Mr J 
had a documented need for this. And I think the information PSP gave Mr J about this was 
inconsistent. In its Pension Analysis Report, it said by doing this no tax liability is created. 
But in the summary of its recommendation, it stated that income from the pension would be 
taxed  which I understand wouldve been the case for Mr J as he was receiving a salary. 
So, I think this likely made it difficult for Mr J to make an informed decision about this. But in 
any event, I dont think this facility meant that a transfer was in his best interests.
Overall, I dont think Mr J had a need for flexibility or to access TFC at the time of the advice, 
so I dont think transferring for this reason was in his best interests.Death benefits
PSP has said the alternative death benefits a transfer achieved werent a reason for its 
recommendation or an important consideration. I note though its recommendation said one 
of Mr Js concerns was the death benefits his estate would receive, that he wanted to 
maximise the death benefits his spouse would receive and that one of the reasons for its 
recommendation was it would enhance the available death benefits. So, contrary to what 
PSP now says, this does seem to have been a consideration at the time.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension mightve been an attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think PSP explored to what 
extent Mr J was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
The DB scheme also provided death benefits. Mr J was married and so the spouses 
pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr J predeceased 
her. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And the sum 
remaining would also have been reduced by income Mr J drew from the pension. And given 
he was recorded as being in good health, there was the possibility it would be significantly 
depleted by the point it came to be passed on. In any event, PSP should not have 
encouraged Mr J to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr J genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, life insurance 
couldve been explored. But I cant see that PSP gave any significant consideration to this.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and alternative death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr J. But again, PSP wasnt there to 
just transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr J needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr J was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. There isnt sufficient evidence, in my view, to show that 
Mr J needed to transfer to address debts and he seems to have had alternative ways of 
addressing this if it were a genuine objective. And I cant see that he needed to access his 
benefits flexibly.  
So, I think PSP shouldve advised Mr J to remain in his DB scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would've gone ahead anyway, against PSP's 
advice. And Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr J wouldve insisted 
on transferring out of the DB scheme, against PSPs advice. I say this because Mr J was an 
inexperienced investor  who by his own admission didnt understand the pension and was 
just seeking help, which was also noted at the time of the fact find. And this pension, 
contrary to what PSP has now said, seems to have been an important part of his retirement 
provisions. So, if PSP had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr J had any genuine needs that he felt were so great that meant he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise had 
been recommended to him and for which he was paying, didnt think it was suitable for him 
or in his best interests. And I think that explanation wouldve carried significant weight. So, I 
dont think Mr J would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think PSP should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
PSP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, I understand that Mr J retired at age 60. And, as our Investigator said, I think its 
likely hed have also taken benefits under his DB scheme at that point. So, in the 
circumstances, compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PSP should:
always calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts PSPs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, PSP may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require PSP Wealth 
Management Ltd to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
PSP Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require PSP 
Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
PSP Wealth Management Ltd pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on PSP Wealth 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman