DRN-2129285
The complaint
Mr D says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D had three loans with Mr Lender in April, July and October 2017. The loans were for 
£300, £400 and £750. The first two loans were payday loans and the third an instalment 
loan.
An adjudicator considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr D asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before lending to Mr D, Mr Lender asked him to provide some information about his income 
and expenditure. For the April loan, Mr D said his income was £1,093 per month (this was 
verified with a payslip) and for the other loans, Mr D said his income was £1,517. Mr D also 
provided some information about his monthly expenditure, which he told Mr Lender came to 
a total of £193 per month. Mr Lender says Mr D also confirmed he lived with family and 
didnt pay rent  only £50 towards utilities, which is included in the £193 figure. The 
information recorded by Mr Lender also shows Mr D didnt declare any other credit 
commitments.
Based on the information provided by Mr D, it looks like he could sustainably afford to repay 
the loans he had with Mr Lender. Mr Lender hasnt however shown us anything other than a 
brief summary of its credit checks, so I dont know to what extent (if at all) the information 
provided by Mr D was undermined by other sources of data, like credit bureau data. Mr D 
also hasnt provided any additional information which might show more detailed or 
proportionate checks wouldve suggested these loans were unaffordable  and so I cant say 
that additional checks of some of the information Mr D provided wouldve caused Mr Lender 
to decline the loans.
So while Im not entirely satisfied that Mr Lenders checks were always proportionate, Ive no 
evidence to conclude these loans were actually unaffordable for Mr D. As a result, Im not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against Mr Lender.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman