DRN-2766032
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) unfairly charged Mr B 
for the total cost of damage to a third-party vehicle under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out whats known as an all sections excess policy underwritten by Calpe. The 
applicable excess on the policy was £3,000 for any incident, which applied whether there 
was a liability to a third party or accidental damage.
In December 2019, the named driver on Mr Bs motor insurance policy was involved in a 
collision with a third-party vehicle. Mr B didnt notify Calpe of this incident and in January 
2020 Calpe received notification from the third-party insurer of the incident and holding the 
driver of Mr Bs vehicle at fault. Calpe appointed an engineer to assess the damage and 
appointed a claims investigator. Based on the information available, Calpe decided to settle 
the third partys claim in full.
Calpe then sought to recover the full claim of £1,757.12 from Mr B in line with the £3,000 all 
sections excess on his policy. Mr B was not happy with this and complained to Calpe. Calpe 
said that it was entitled under the terms of the policy to settle any third-party claim, even if Mr 
B or the named driver disagreed with its position. It considered that the named driver on Mr 
Bs policy would have been found liable had this case proceeded to court.
Mr B remained dissatisfied with Calpes response to his complaint and Mr B decided to bring 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt consider that Calpe had acted reasonably in settling the third party 
claim on the basis of the named driver being 100% responsible for the accident. He didnt 
think that Calpe did enough to investigate the circumstances of the collision, it being a case 
of one persons word against another.
The investigator considered that it was fair and reasonable for Calpe to treat the named 
driver on Mr Bs policy as only 50% responsible for the accident and the damage which 
resulted. He concluded that Calpe should reassess the claim so that Mr Bs liability was 
limited to 50% of the damage claimed under the policy and to amend all insurance records to 
reflect the split liability of the accident. This outcome was agreed by Calpe.
Mr B then told our investigator that hed asked Calpe to reimburse the repair costs for the 
damage caused to his own vehicle to be added to the claim. He also said that he wanted 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by the poor service hed received from Calpe. 
Calpe stated that as the repair costs to his own vehicle were estimated at less than the 
policy excess, he wouldnt have been able to claim these in any event.
Our investigator looked at the matter again and in all the circumstances, decided that a fair 
resolution would be to treat the named driver on Mr Bs policy as 50% responsible for the 
accident and the damage which resulted, including the damage to Mr Bs car. He didnt 
consider that compensation for distress and inconvenience was required in these 
circumstances however.
Calpes response was that the damage to Mr Bs car had been estimated to be £1,242 and 
when offset against the excess, this meant Mr B was responsible for up to £1,758 of any 
third-party claim costs. The third-party claim costs were £1,757.12. Assuming a settlement 
basis of 50/50, it stated that it would have paid £878.56. In summary, it said that as the 
combination of Mr Bs own costs and the third-party costs of £878.56 were less than the 
excess, they were all uninsured losses and payable by Mr B.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and wished to claim 50% of the cost to fix his vehicle. He said 
that the cost had been £5,000 and stated that he wished to claim compensation for stress 
and financial difficulties caused by Calpe and said that, having been recorded as 100% at 
fault for the accident, his premium increased by a further £200. He added that he had to pay 
for a rental car while his car was being repaired and that Calpe should cover the cost of this. 
Finally, he wished to claim for congestion charges the garage incurred in driving his vehicle 
into central London.
Mr B provided to our investigator a payment receipt and two invoices from a garage which 
he said carried out the repairs to his vehicle at a cost of £5,000. Calpe raised a number of 
concerns in relation to these, and the investigator came to the view that there were 
discrepancies in the evidence supplied by Mr B for which there wasnt a reasonable 
explanation. He concluded that he couldnt fairly ask Calpe to pay the amount Mr B would 
like them to pay. As for the rental car cost and charges, the investigator stated that these 
werent costs covered under the policy.
The investigator concluded that he wouldnt be asking Calpe to pay the £5,000 cost of the
repairs that Mr B would like them to pay, or any further amounts. He noted that the third-
party claim costs were £1,757.12, so considering the 50/50 liability settlement, Mr B would 
only be liable for £878.56. Calpe had said that Mr B had paid £1,707.41 for the claim, so he 
considered that Calpe should refund Mr B £828.85 with interest. 
Mr B remains dissatisfied and the matter has therefore been forwarded to me to reach a final 
decision in my role as Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether Calpe has treated Mr B fairly and reasonably 
in the handling of relevant claims under Mr Bs motor insurance policy. I dont consider that it 
did so in all respects with regard to damage to the third-party vehicle. I consider that it did so 
however with regard to the damage to Mr Bs car. I therefore partially uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
This service doesnt decide which party is to blame for causing an accident. Thats 
something which its more appropriate for a court to look at in relevant circumstances. We do 
however consider whether an insurer has acted in line with its policy terms and conditions 
and whether its acted fairly and reasonably in coming to its decisions under those provisions.
The starting point is for me to therefore consider the policy terms and conditions. Calpe 
relied upon the following condition in its policy;The Underwriters can conduct the defence, admit negligence for any accident or claim on 
Your behalf. The Underwriters will also exchange information with other parties involved with 
the incident or claim and to settle any claim or part of the claim without reference to the 
Insured Person. If there is a dispute between the Underwriters and the Insured Person, the 
settlement of the claim shall be as if it were made with the agreement of the Insured Person, 
regardless that such settlement may be made without admission of liability. We will settle all 
claims on the best terms available and keep the claim payment to a minimum as much as is 
possible. You will be liable to pay/repay Your Excess Amount on the basis of such 
settlement notwithstanding that you may not agree with the level of third party damage or 
injury which has been incurred, claimed and paid for.
The policy terms and conditions also state;
The Excess applies to damage or injury claimed by a third party. You are liable for any claim 
(by You or any third party) made on Your Policy up to an amount of the value of the Excess 
on the Policy. For example, if You are involved in an incident where a third party makes a 
claim against You and there is no damage to Your Car, You will be liable to pay The 
Underwriters the amount up to the value of Your Excess.
The excess is £3,000 in this case and the figure appears clearly within Mr Bs insurance 
policy documents. When Mr B purchased his policy, he accepted the terms which included 
the condition that he was financially responsible for all costs up to £3,000 in relevant 
circumstances. Calpe has paid money out on the policy and this is treated as a fault claim, 
even where fault is deemed to be shared between the parties to an accident.
Mr B considers that Calpe has charged him unfairly for the total cost of the damage to the 
third-party vehicle and also feels that it didnt fully and properly investigate the matter before 
settling the third-party claim.
The third-party vehicle
Turning firstly to the damage to the third-party vehicle and to the question of the 50/50 split 
in liability. The repair cost of the third-party damage was £1,757.12 and 50% of this sum 
amounts to £878.56. Mr B had initially paid £1,707.41 to meet the third-party cost however 
and considers that the whole of this sum should be refunded to him. The services 
investigator however reached a refund figure of £828.85
Im satisfied that the wording of the policy provides Calpe with a broad discretion in settling 
claims. The insurer nevertheless needs to invoke the policy terms and conditions in a fair 
and reasonable manner.
Ive therefore considered all the evidence and note that there are some differing professional 
views on the question of liability in this case. Ive noted particularly that the claims 
investigator appointed by Calpe stated; I dont see any other conclusion which is fair other 
than 50/50 due to this being one word against another. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im not satisfied that Calpe applied the wording of the policy 
in a fair and reasonable manner and Calpe has also now accepted that this 50/50 split is 
appropriate.
I think this is a fair outcome as the named driver and the third party provided different 
versions of how the accident happened, there were no independent witnesses and no CCTV 
or dash-cam evidence to confirm either partys version of events.  
The policyholders vehicleSecondly, turning to the cost of repair to Mr Bs own car, the policy terms and conditions 
read as follows; 
You must send the Company a detailed repair estimate and full details of the incident as 
soon as possible so that repairs can be approved. The Company reserves the right to 
request the Policyholder to obtain alternative estimates.
Subject to compliance with certain requirements of the policy, Calpe would normally deduct 
the agreed value of any damage to the policy-holders vehicle from the excess amount 
payable in respect of the third party claim.
Mr B feels that Calpe should accept that repairs to his own car amounted to £5,000 and to 
require Calpe to reimburse 50% of his claim, being £2,500. Hes supplied an invoice from a 
garage which he says carried out the repairs. He also wishes to claim compensation for 
stress and financial difficulties which he says that Calpe has caused. Im not persuaded that 
its appropriate to use the figure of £5,000 as the basis for calculation however.
Calpe states that Mr B didnt take the opportunity to provide a detailed repair estimate or 
indeed any estimate for the damage to his car before arranging for the repairs to be carried 
out. Calpes assessor estimated the damage to be £1,242. It also stated that when the cost 
of repairs is less than the policy excess, a policy holder can't claim on the insurance 
regardless of liability.
I appreciate that Mr B has said that the car manufacturer provided an estimate of cost for the 
type of damage incurred which was in excess of the amount being sought by him. I havent 
seen any further evidence of this estimate however. 
The wording of Mr Bs policy ensures that the insurer is given an opportunity to consider any 
repair estimate provided by the policyholder and to approve or not approve it accordingly 
and to ask for alternative estimates where appropriate. Mr B didnt provide an estimate in 
relation to the £5,000 repairs and this figure was four times greater that the assessors 
figure. In all the circumstances, I cant say that Calpe acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
stating that it would refuse this claim.
Ive also looked at the invoices for £5,000 and surrounding information and listened to the 
telephone calls between our investigator and Mr B and our investigator and the garage 
regarding the invoices. In view of the significant discrepancies and irregularities within the 
evidence, our investigator found that it had not been possible to reconcile the information 
available. I agree with our investigator and I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Calpe to treat this as an uninsured loss.
I note that Mr B says that his policy insurance premiums have increased by around £200 due 
to this incident, however settlement on a 50/50 basis would normally lead to such outcome. 
Mr Bs policy doesnt allow for provision of a rental vehicle whilst his car was being repaired 
at a garage and neither does it provide for payment of a congestion charge levied whilst the 
car was in the care of the garage. I dont find that Calpe have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in relation to any of these additional matters either.
In conclusion, with regard to the damage to Mr Bs vehicle, I cant say that Calpe acted 
unfairly or unreasonably during their handling of this matter and in all the circumstances, I 
think that a partial upholding of the first element of Mr Bs complaint is a fair and reasonable 
outcome. I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision. In all the circumstances however, 
its my view that it would be fair and reasonable for Calpe to refund Mr B the sum of £828.85.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Cs complaint. Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited should therefore settle the claim by;
- refunding Mr B the sum of £828.85 within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final 
Decision.
- paying interest on the above sum at a simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of Mr 
Bs initial payment to the date of settlement*.
- *If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B 
a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman