DRN-2825442
The complaint
Mr B has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with 
issues with his boiler under his home emergency policy.
  
What happened
Mr B had a HomeCare policy with British Gas for a rental property that he owned. Mr Bs 
tenants told him that the boiler wasnt working, so they had no heating or hot water. Mr B 
contacted British Gas to get an engineer to fix it.
Over the following weeks, British Gas sent several engineers to try and repair the boiler. The 
engineers changed various boiler parts and then decided that the issue was with the flue, 
which wasnt covered by the policy. Mr B asked British Gas to replace the boiler for free 
under the policy. British Gas said Mr B wasnt entitled to a new boiler under the terms of the 
policy, as it hadnt been found to be beyond economic repair.
Mr B arranged for an independent engineer to deal with the issues. The engineer said the 
issue was with the boiler itself, not with the flue. Mr B paid for the boiler to be replaced, as 
his tenants had now been without heating and hot water for a few weeks.
Mr B complained to British Gas and asked to be refunded the cost of the new boiler. When 
British Gas replied, it said that its investigations showed it had made multiple attempts to 
repair the boiler. An engineer had decided that the only possibility left was that there was an 
issue with the flue, which wasnt covered by the policy. As the boiler was working 
intermittently, Mr B wasnt entitled to a new boiler under the terms of the policy. It offered Mr 
B £20 compensation for the delay in responding to his complaint.
So, Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he 
thought Mr Bs case met the terms and conditions for replacing the boiler under the policy. 
He said British Gas should therefore reimburse Mr B the amount it cost for the boiler to be 
replaced privately.
As British Gas did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued two provisional decision on this complaint. In the first provisional decision, I said I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint, but that I hadnt received the requested evidence from 
Mr B. I issued my second provisional decision on 29 April 2021. In that provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When I issued my first provisional decision on this case, I said that I might reconsider my 
decision if I was provided with further evidence. Mr B provided a range of evidence, which 
British Gas has also had the opportunity to comment on. Ive now considered the further 
evidence and comments from both parties. Having done so, I currently intend to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain why.
Mr B provided a statement from the independent engineer that said the heat exchanger was 
leaking and the boiler was beyond economical repair. The engineer also confirmed there 
was no fault with the flue and that this had been replaced as part of its standard procedures 
with a new boiler.
Ive also considered what British Gas has said. It has strongly argued that because it 
replaced multiple parts in the boiler it had concluded the fault could only be with the flue. I 
can see that British Gas did replace various parts, which included the heat exchanger. So, I 
think British Gas took a range of steps to try and identify the source of the issue and I can 
understand that it decided the likely cause was the flue.
However, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ignore the evidence from the 
independent engineer who found a fault within the boiler itself and also inspected the flue 
and didnt find a problem with it. British Gas identified what it thought was a likely cause 
based on a process of elimination, but Mr Bs engineer found an actual cause and ruled out 
the cause suggested by British Gas. On that basis, I currently think the cause of the issue 
was more likely than not the heat exchanger, rather than the flue.
The independent engineer said the damaged heat exchanger meant the boiler was beyond 
economic repair. British Gas has questioned why, when this issue was identified, Mr B didnt 
contact British Gas to repair the boiler for free. British Gas has also said Mr B, through a 
property manager, informed an engineer not to attend and that a recent written statement 
from the property manager portrayed a different conversation than the one that had taken 
place with British Gas. 
I asked Mr B about this. Mr B also explained that his tenants had been without heating for 
two weeks and British Gas had repeatedly failed to fix the problem. He therefore felt forced 
to get a second opinion. That engineer found the leaking heat exchanger and confirmed 
there was no problem with the flue. The engineer was able to replace the boiler immediately 
and Mr B felt he had no choice but to do so because of the impact on his tenants. Mr B said 
he told British Gas he would be replacing the boiler and intended to reclaim the cost and 
also raised a complaint.
Mr B also said the property manager insisted the statement was correct and that she had 
firmly rejected that it portrayed a different conversation than had taken place. Mr B said the 
property manager rejected the suggestion she had cancelled the appointment, despite 
having lost confidence in British Gas, as they were desperate to resolve the situation. 
Ive also looked at what happened when Mr B told British Gas he wanted it to replace the 
boiler. British Gas said it would need to send an engineer to assess the boiler to see if it met 
the terms to be replaced, so a visit was arranged. Ive looked at British Gas account of the 
discussion between its engineer and the property manager. This said:
our engineer called ahead before he was due to attend the property, at which point he 
spoke with the Property Manager he explained the only problem left, that could be causing 
an issue would be the flue, which was continually being damaged by traffic due to its 
positioning outside. He went on to explain that the flue was not accessible due to its being 
boxed in the property and it was over 1 meter in length, repairs to the flue were not covered 
within the HomeCare Policy.

The call concluded with the agreement that the engineers visit was not required and that [the 
property manager] would speak with [Mr B].
So, Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I think Mr B has provided a credible 
explanation for why he replaced the boiler in the way that he did. As part of that Ive thought 
about British Gas concerns about the conversation with the property manager. Clearly, I 
dont know exactly what took place in those discussions, but I think that Mr Bs explanation of what happened has been consistent and that the property managers evidence fitted with 
that. 
The account provided by British Gas also doesnt persuade me that the property manager 
told the engineer not to visit. Im mindful that the purpose of the visit was to assess whether 
the boiler should be replaced and it was British Gas who had said this visit needed to 
happen. The engineer then seemed to give his view over the phone, which focused on the 
work that had already been carried out. There was then an agreement that he didnt need 
to visit. Based on the evidence Ive seen, the property manager seems to have agreed to the 
visit not happening based on the views of British Gas engineer, who, in my view, seemed to 
suggest he thought there was no point in the visit taking place. This then meant that the visit 
British Gas said needed to take place to assess the boiler for replacement didnt happen.
So, British Gas points dont persuade me that Mr B acted unreasonably in deciding to fit a 
new boiler using the independent engineer. There was an ongoing issue with the boiler that 
needed to be resolved. An independent engineer found the cause of the issue, said the 
boiler was beyond economic repair and was able to replace it immediately. In the 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Mr B to decide that he therefore needed to 
replace the boiler and that he would need to get the independent engineer to do this, as it 
hadnt been possible to get the issues resolved through British Gas.
So, Ive thought about whether British Gas should refund Mr B the cost of replacing the 
boiler. The policy said British Gas would replace the boiler if it couldnt repair it and it was 
less than seven years old. Ive already said that I think it was reasonable for Mr B to decide 
the boiler needed to be replaced. However, British Gas has said there was now no way of 
knowing how old the boiler was as it was now unable to carry out its normal checks to 
confirm its age. 
Mr B said the boiler was less than seven years old. He provided statements from people who 
managed the refurbishment of the property. These confirmed a new boiler was installed as 
part of those works and that it was less than seven years old. British Gas has raised 
concerns that these statements werent on company headed paper. Mr B has explained that, 
given the boiler was installed several years ago, the people who provided the statements no 
longer work in project management. However, Mr B has also now provided the terms of 
reference for the project. These said:
A new central heating and hot water supply system will be installed. The current system will 
be employed where appropriate, such as pipe work, radiators, but the Combi System and 
holding tanks will be new.
Based on the date of the terms of reference and the date that the project managers said the 
boiler was installed, I think its more likely than not that the boiler was less than seven years 
old. So, given all of the above, I currently intend to say British Gas should refund Mr B the 
cost of replacing the boiler. This is because I think its more likely than not that the issue was 
with the boiler itself, the independent engineer said the boiler was beyond economic repair 
and the boiler was less than seven years old.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 29 May 2021. Both parties responded before that date.
Mr B accepted the decision.
British Gas said:It didnt see how the heat exchanger could be leaking, as it had been fitted less than two 
weeks earlier.
The engineer was a highly experienced and trusted engineer and had no history of 
misdiagnosis.
The evidence of when the boiler was installed was ambiguous and could have been 
written by anyone. British Gas said it would need more concrete evidence of the age of 
the boiler before being asked to reimburse the cost.
In terms of the written statement from the property manager, it queried why its trusted 
engineer would lie about being told not to attend. There was no benefit in him not 
attending. It said the engineer could provide a written statement if that was helpful. 
British Gas also queried how a new boiler could be fitted so promptly, which suggested 
Mr B or the property manager had already arranged for a third party to install the boiler.
Mr B or the property manager had a duty to allow British Gas to inspect the boiler and 
validate whether it qualified for a replacement before allowing a third party to do this. Mr 
B had the old boiler destroyed without even taking photos of the serial number. It couldnt 
validate a claim without sufficient proof of age. A home owner should keep records.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my decision to uphold this complaint. As part of 
that, I considered all of British Gas points, even if I dont comment on them here.
I accept that British Gas continues to have strongly held views about the outcome of this 
case. I should also be clear that my decision is not about the honesty of the engineer or his 
ability. Where I have disputed and contradictory evidence, I have to make a decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. So, I need to decide what I think is more likely to have 
happened taking into account the evidence available to me and the wider circumstances.
In terms of the issue with the boiler, I was aware that the heat exchanger had only recently 
been fitted. I dont know why an issue was found with it a short time after.  However, a 
qualified heating engineer found the issue with the heat exchanger when he inspected it. He 
also said there was no issue with the flue, which he also inspected. When thinking about the 
likely cause of the issue with the boiler, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ignore 
that evidence.
For the age of the boiler, I was already aware of British Gas concerns about its age and how 
it would normally validate a claim. I agree that, ideally, there would be definitive proof of the 
age of the boiler. However, where such evidence doesnt exist, I need to decide what I think 
is most likely to have happened. On that basis, and looking at the full circumstances of this 
case, I remain of the view that it was more likely than not that the boiler was less than seven 
years old.
  
Putting things right
As a result, British Gas should refund Mr B the cost of installing the boiler. British Gas should 
also pay 8% simple interest on that amount because Mr B lost use of the money from the 
date on which he paid the invoice. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Refund Mr B the cost of installing the boiler, subject to him providing suitable evidence of 
how much this cost.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on which Mr B paid the money to 
the date on which British Gas Insurance Limited refunds it.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman