DRN-3016806
The complaint
Mr P says Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) lent to him irresponsibly. He says that it 
shouldnt have approved loan 2 as he needed to borrow further to meet his everyday 
expenses and make the loan repayments.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. H&T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics, and these 
form part of this final decision. 
This complaint is about two instalment loans H&T provided to Mr P.
Loan 1 was started on 23 November 2018. It was for £750. Mr P was due to pay 12 monthly 
instalments of £105.59. This was a total amount payable of £1,267.08. This loan was repaid 
(early) on 31 May 2019.
Loan 2 was started on 31 May 2019. It was for £2,000. Mr P was due to pay 36 monthly 
payments of £134.41. This was a total amount payable of £4,838.76. This loan was repaid 
(early) on 22 December 2020.
Mr P paid £520.83 to settle loan 1 on the day he started loan 2. Its accepted that this money came 
from the proceeds of loan 2.
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think H&T was wrong to have approved 
loan 1. But he didnt think H&T should have approved loan 2. This was because it was wrong to 
use part of loan 1 to repay loan 2. This led to Mr P being indebted to H&T for an extended period 
of time for this money, and in a much more expensive loan agreement. This wasnt fair.
H&T didnt agree with what our adjudicator. It said that:
Loan 2 had a lower annual percentage rate (APR) than loan 1.
No unpaid interest was rolled over to loan 2 as it is charged on a daily basis.
It wasnt persuaded that the loans caused Mr P financial problems.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
H&T needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P could repay the 
loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that H&T should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr P didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold loan 1, and I dont think this loan 
directly forms part of Mr Ps complaint. So, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about 
the initial sale of this loan.
But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr P had with H&T. So, it is something I will take into 
account when considering his complaint about the sale of loan 2. And I have looked at it if it was 
fair to refinance part of loan 1 into loan 2.
When Mr P started loan 2 he hadnt repaid very much of the capital of loan 1. He ended up 
refinancing the £520 he still owed into loan 2. So he was, in effect, borrowing the same money 
again. Whilst the APR on loan 2 was lower than loan 1, the longer term did mean that Mr P would 
pay more to borrow this money as part of loan 2 then he would have done if he had continued with 
loan 1. Ive thought about whether this was reasonable.
Ive seen the information Mr P was shown at the time of sale. This does explain, in understandable 
terms, what Mr P would pay into these loans, both on a monthly basis and in total. So, I think this 
shows Mr P was informed about the basis that that these loans were started. It makes it likely that 
he agreed with loan 2 at the time of sale.
And I dont disagree that the £520 he carried over to loan 2 would cost more than it wouldve done 
if it had remained part of loan 1. But the amount of interest charged on both loans was within the 
regulators rules at the time. So, I dont think I can say that H&T was acting incorrectly when it 
started loan 2 due to the structure of it, and that it refinanced part of loan 1.
Ive gone on to see if loan 2 was affordable for Mr P. For loan 1 Mr P needed to repay around £105 
for 12 months after taking it. This rose to around £135 for 36 months for loan 2. So, these were 
significant longer-term commitments.
Ive seen a record of the information that H&T obtained when Mr P took these loans out. Mr P 
had a monthly income of around £2,250 and he had regular monthly outgoings of around 
£1,500. H&T looked at some of Mr Ps bank statements and they largely confirm these 
amounts. They dont show that Mr P was in any significant financial difficulty.
Mr P says that he had other short-term loans, and other credit, and this should have caused H&T 
not to lend to him. But the point of sale information does show that he had one other high cost 
credit facility and some other debt. But these were accounted for in the information given about his 
income and expenditure. So, I dont the existence of this other lending makes the loan 2 
unaffordable.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely H&T was made aware of any financial problems Mr P mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for H&T to rely on the 
information it obtained. And it wouldve been reasonable for H&T to think that Mr P could afford 
the loan repayments to loan 2.
I dont think H&T was acting incorrectly when it approved loan 2. So, Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint about this loan.
Mr P didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said that he thought both loans were mis-
sold as there werent adequate checks made before the lending. If H&T had made better 
checks it wouldve seen he had other short term loans and not lent to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P said that he thought both loans were mis-sold and he feels that H&T should have 
looked further into his circumstances. If it had done this it wouldve seen he had other short-
term loans (and other debt) and not lent to him. 
Both the adjudicator and I have considered the point of sale information. And my findings 
about the sale of loan 2 are detailed above. The situation was very similar for loan 1. I think 
its reasonable to say that the checks H&T did before approving the loan were proportionate 
and they included looking at Mr Ps bank statements. These checks showed the loans were 
affordable. So I think it was reasonable for H&T to approve both loans 1 and 2. 
Mr P didnt really raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision or comment 
any further about the sale of loan 2. So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, 
for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman