DRN-3616209
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she and her husband were misled into buying a holiday club 
membership and that she was misled into taking out a loan with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK 
Plc (Mitsubishi) to pay for it. She says too that the loan was not affordable. Mrs C is 
represented by a claims management company, which Ill call S.  
What happened
S has explained that Mrs S and her husband bought a trial membership of a holiday 
provider, D, in 2013. As part of that trial membership they were on holiday in Greece in 
September 2015 and were invited to a seminar with D. Following that seminar and as a 
result of what they were told at it, they entered into a points-based membership with D. To 
fund the purchase, Mrs C took out a loan with Mitsubishi.
In April 2019 S contacted Mitsubishi on behalf of Mrs C. It said that Mitsubishi had arranged 
the loan but had not been an authorised broker at the time. The loan was therefore void. It 
said too that D had misrepresented the nature of the contract and that it and the loan were 
void for that reason. It said too that Mitsubishi had not carried out proper affordability checks 
before agreeing to the loan. 
Mitsubishi did not accept what S had said. It noted that Mrs C and her husband had signed 
documents confirming they had read the documents before agreeing to the membership, 
including confirmation that they had not relied on any statements other than what was in the 
contract itself.  It said the contract made clear what they were buying and that it had carried 
out appropriate checks before agreeing to the loan. 
Mrs C did not accept Mitsubishis response, and S referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator did not however recommend that the complaint be upheld. S asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint and issue a formal decision.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Authorisation of D
Ill deal first with Ss complaint that D was not authorised to arrange credit when the loan was 
agreed. In saying that, it appears to rely on the Financial Conduct Authoritys register, which 
shows that D acquitted its current status on 21 March 2016  after the loan was arranged. 
However, 21 March 2016 is the date from which the FCA authorised consumer buy to let 
credit. Ds status changed then, because it is not authorised to arrange that type of credit. 
The Financial Ombudsman Services records show however that D has been authorised to 
arrange credit of the type taken out by Mrs C since the FCA become responsible for 
consumer credit authorisation on 1 April 2014; before that, it held the necessary licence 
issued by the Office of Fair Trading. I do not therefore need to discuss the consequences for 
Mrs C if D had not been authorised, although it does not automatically follow that the loan 
would have been void.     
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. I am 
satisfied too that the loan was set up under pre-existing arrangements between D and 
Mitsubishi. Because of that, Mitsubishi is responsible for statements made by D about both 
the holiday membership and the loan.  
 Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
S says that Mrs C and her husband were misled about the nature of the product they were 
buying and that they were pressured into agreeing the purchase contract, having been kept 
in a presentation for several hours and plied with drink. D and Mitsubishi deny that was the 
case. 
In my view, it was clear from the paperwork that Mrs C and her husband signed that what 
they were buying was a holiday club membership, rather than a timeshare. Their contract 
was not linked to a particular property with a specified week or weeks of use attached to it. 
Rather, they bought points which they could swap for holiday accommodation at a range of 
resorts. I note as well that, whilst not outside any relevant time limits, it was some years 
before Mrs C and her husband suggested anything was wrong. Given the nature of their 
concerns, the delay in raising them makes them less, rather than more, credible.  
Mrs C has said too that there was a lack of available accommodation. I note however that 
the membership contract said that accommodation was subject to availability. There is little 
evidence that Mrs C has routinely tried to make bookings and been unable to do so.  
I am not persuaded therefore that Mrs C and her husband were told that what they were 
buying was different from what they in fact bought or that the membership was otherwise 
misrepresented to them. 
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
S has suggested that, if a timeshare contract does not include details of the property concerned, it is void under Spanish law. If the contract with D is void, it follows that the loan 
agreement is as well. But Mrs C and her husband did not buy a timeshare, so I do not 
believe that is relevant  even if correct. And I note too that the contract was subject to 
English law. 
L has not provided any other reasons for saying that the loan agreement created an unfair 
relationship. Its terms were clear and complied with relevant consumer protection legislation. 
That does not automatically preclude a claim under section 140A and 140B, but it does not 
appear to me that there were any aspects of the relationship that made it unfair.  
Unaffordable lending
Mitsubishi has explained the checks it carried out before agreeing to the loan. It noted that 
the loan repayments were a relatively small proportion of Mrs Cs income after tax. It said too 
 and I accept  that it carried out credit checks and took into account her existing credit 
commitments. It noted too that, whilst his credit rating was not as good as Mrs Cs, her 
husband was also earning. 
Again, I note that no concerns were expressed about affordability until S raised the argument 
that the loan was void. Had the loan been unaffordable from the outset, I think it likely that 
Mrs C would have raised that rather sooner than she did.         
 My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to 
do anything more to resolve Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman