DRN-3700665
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a transaction he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In January 2021, £12,000 was transferred from Mr Js Lloyds account to a third party hed 
never paid before, using his mobile app. There were further attempts to drain the rest of his 
balance over the following two hours, but these were blocked by Lloyds fraud systems.
Mr J checked his balance the following day and reported the payment that went through. He 
explained that he didnt know the recipient. At the time of the transaction, his phone was with 
him and he was alone at work, but the screen was frozen and it said it was updating and not 
to turn it off. Mr J had changed his online banking security details the day before the 
disputed payment, as he said hed had trouble logging in.
Lloyds held Mr J liable for the payment in dispute. They said theyd not detected any 
malware or remote access, and they said the IP addresses, Wi-Fi box, and location data 
matched Mr Js genuine activity.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J asked for his case to be reviewed afresh, 
so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Lloyds and Mr J a provisional decision on 29 August 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Lloyds technical evidence shows that the payment in dispute used Mr Js mobile app. But 
this is not enough, on its own, for Lloyds to hold Mr J liable  they also need to be able to 
evidence that Mr J consented to the transaction. Otherwise, Lloyds have to refund it.
This case is finely balanced. The payment required access to Mr Js PIN-protected phone 
which was with him at the time while he was alone  as well as Mr Js online banking 
security details, which he didnt give to anyone. So I appreciate why Lloyds and our 
investigator questioned how the payment might have been unauthorised.
However, Im concerned about the possibility that Mr Js phone may have been hacked or 
otherwise compromised. A keylogger or similar method could have recorded Mr Js new 
security details when he changed them the day before. And the apparent update that froze 
Mr Js screen may have been a faade, to hide a fraudster using his mobile banking app 
remotely and to stop Mr J from intervening or turning his phone off.
Lloyds have relied on their assertion that there was no malware or remote access present. 
But having repeatedly pressed them for evidence of this, theyve not provided any at all. And 
the onus is on Lloyds to provide such evidence. So as far as Im concerned, malware and/or 
remote access are still plausible possibilities here, unless Lloyds provide evidence which 
shows otherwise  and before the deadline of this provisional decision.
Indeed, Lloyds internal notes indicate that this case may involve a method of fraud theyve 
seen before. But again, when we asked them for more information about this, they did not 
elaborate.
I also note that Lloyds own fraud systems blocked all the disputed activity after the initial 
payment went through. So Lloyds own systems found this incident to be highly suspicious. 
Again, Lloyds were unable to elaborate further when we asked them for more details about 
what their system had picked up.
The other thing Lloyds relied on was that they said the IP addresses, Wi-Fi box, and location 
data involved matched Mr Js genuine activity. But they were unable to provide Mr Js 
historic online banking activity to compare the IP addresses to, and from what little they 
could provide I did not see a clear match. Ive also not seen anything which substantiates 
what theyve said about any Wi-Fi box data matching. The IP addresses in question dont 
match Mr Js Internet Service Provider. And the IP locations in question appear to be quite 
some way away from where Mr J lives and works. So not only have Lloyds been unable to 
back up their argument with evidence, but what they have provided appears to somewhat 
support Mr Js side of things.
The person using the account tried to drain it very quickly indeed, and kept trying to send on 
Mr Js money even when the account was blocked. And their usage of his online banking 
was notably quick. For example, for the disputed payment that went through, the user 
managed to log in, look at Mr Js accounts, look at his personal details, set up and confirm a 
new payee, put in the transaction details, check availability, and validate the payment in just 
48 seconds from start to finish. The nature of the account usage seems indicative of fraud.
Mr J had not paid these people before, Ive been unable to find any link between him and 
them, and Lloyds have not provided any information about the recipient account.
Mr Js testimony has been consistent, and so far it seems plausible that his phone could 
have been compromised in this particular case. I also appreciate that he had trouble 
communicating, which may have made it difficult for him to get his side of things across.
So taking into account everything thats been said and provided so far, Im not currently 
persuaded that Mr J consented to the disputed transaction. While I understand Lloyds point 
of view, I do not think they have yet provided sufficient evidence to hold him liable.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
12 September 2022. But neither party sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
refund the disputed transaction; and-
pay simple interest to Mr J on the transaction, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
payable from the date it was last debited until the date its returned. This is to 
compensate Mr J for the time he didnt have his money.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this simple interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint, and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right by doing what Ive 
said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman