DRN-2843073
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs W booked flights abroad for them and their daughter. They 
subsequently also booked various other flights and accommodation in connection with their 
planned trip - which involved them travelling to several different countries. The trip was due 
to start in mid-May 2020 and last for around eight weeks. 
Around the same time as booking their flights, Mr and Mrs W took out a basic, single trip, 
worldwide travel insurance policy, underwritten by ERGO, to cover them and their daughter 
(the policy).
The trip was cancelled at the end of April 2020 due to international travel restrictions as a 
result of Covid-19 pandemic. The FCO advised against all but essential travel on 17 March 
2020 and that guidance remained in place at the time the trip was cancelled - and when Mr 
and Mrs W and their daughter were due to travel on 15 May 2020.
Mr and Mrs W were able to recover most costs theyd paid for the flights and some of their 
accommodation costs through other routes via other routes. And on 12 May 2020, they 
made a claim on the policy for the remaining costs of the trip they couldnt recover from 
elsewhere. 
ERGO declined Mr and Mrs Ws claim on the basis that the reason which led to the trip 
being cancelled wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. It said the 
cancellation section of the policy listed specific reasons for which ERGO would provide 
cover, and the circumstances surrounding Mr and Mrs Ws claim didnt fit within those 
reasons. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt think that was fair, so complained to our Service. Our investigator 
upheld their complaint. Although, the trip was cancelled for a reason not listed in the 
cancellation section of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy limiting 
cover if theyd travelled against the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO). 
So, our investigator didnt think it was fair and reasonable for ERGO to decline the claim for 
the reason it did. He concluded that it would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to treat the 
claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. And he recommended ERGO 
to assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
ERGO didnt agree. It said the insured perils for which a claim may be considered are clearly 
set out in the policy terms. As the circumstance giving rise to the claim made by Mr and Mrs 
W fell outside of the insured perils listed under the cancellation section of the policy, it said it 
was unable to consider the claim.
This complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business say;
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly;
not unreasonably reject a claim.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so a customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an Insurance
Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a glance summary of
their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of
excluded risks.
The FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers says firms should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the 
customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive been provided with the terms and conditions of the policy from both parties; one of which 
is 15 pages long and the other is 71 pages long. The contents and date of the both 
documents are substantively the same. But for the avoidance of doubt Ive relied on  and 
referred to  the document that is 71 pages long. 
Pages 6 and 7 of the policy terms and conditions says:
Please read the Policy Wording carefully to understand what this policy covers. 
Importantly, please refer to Your declaration and note that exclusions and limits 
apply.
Pages 38 to 40 of the policy terms and conditions set out the policy cancellation terms. It 
says:
We will pay You for pre-booked unused travel and accommodation expenses that You 
have paid, or have agreed to pay, under a contract which You cannot get back if it is 
necessary and unavoidable for You to cancel or cut short Your Journey as a result of:
1. You dying, becoming ill or injured.
2. the death, injury or illness of a Close Relative, Business Associate, Your travel companion or a Close Relative or friend living overseas with whom You plan to stay.
3. You being called for jury service or as a witness (but not an expert witness or where 
Your employment would normally require You to attend court) in a court of law.
4. an accident to a vehicle in which You were planning to travel which happens within 
seven days of the date You planned to leave which leaves the vehicle unusable (this 
applies to self-drive Journeys only).
5. if You are a member of the armed forces or police, fire, nursing or ambulance 
services and You have to return to duty because of an emergency.
6. You being made redundant from full-time, continuous, permanent employment as 
long as You are entitled to payment under the current redundancy payments law and 
that, at the time of booking Your Journey it was unforeseeable.
7. the police needing You to stay after a fire, flood or burglary at Your Home less than 
48 hours before the date You planned to leave.
8. You having to retake or resit any exam which counts towards Your final qualification 
as part of You attending a university or any other tertiary education institution, subject 
to the dates of these exams not having been made public prior to the Relevant Time.
9. You becoming pregnant after You have purchased the policy and You will be more 
than 32 weeks pregnant (24 weeks for multiple pregnancy) at the start of, or during 
Your Journey or Your doctor advises You are unfit to travel due to complications of 
pregnancy.
Pages 66 to 70 of the policy include the general exclusions which apply to the policy.  And it 
says:
We will not cover of whatsoever nature, directly or indirectly caused by, resulting 
from or in connection with, any of the following regardless of any other cause or 
event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence in the loss under any 
section of the policy.
19. loss, damage, expense or indemnity incurred as a result of travelling to an area 
that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised against travel, provided 
that such loss, damage, expense or indemnity is directly or indirectly related to any 
circumstances that are the reason for the advice.
[page 69 of the policy terms and conditions].
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
The IPID
At the top of page 1 of the IPID it says:
This Insurance Product Information Document is only intended to provide a 
summary of the main coverage and exclusions, and is not personalised to your 
specific individual needs in any way. Complete pre-contractual information on the 
product is provided in your policy documentation.
Under the heading What is insured? the IPID says: Cancellation  up to £3,000.
And, under the heading, Where am I covered, on page 2 of the IPID it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For
further details, visit: www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.Has Mr and Mrs Ws claim been unfairly declined?
At the time Mr and Mrs Ws trip was cancelled, at the end of April 2020, the FCO was 
advising against all but essential travel outside of the UK. That advice remained in place on 
the date that Mr and Mrs W, and their daughter, were due to travel; 15 May 2020.
I accept that isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which cancellation cover is 
provided under the terms of the policy as set out above. However, if Mr and Mrs W had 
disregarded FCO advice, and travelled anyway, the FCO exclusion says cover wouldve 
been significantly restricted as it excluded any losses or damage occurred directly or 
indirectly relating to Covid-19 (this being the reason for the FCOs advice to avoid all but 
essential travel). And the IPID says that no cover wouldve been in place at all.
Although the policy terms dont list cancellation due to a change to FCO advice as a specific
insured event I also need to consider whether I think its fair and reasonable for ERGO to 
decline Mr and Mrs Ws claim in all the circumstances of this case. In doing so, Ive taken 
into account the industry rules and guidance set out above, as well as relevant law (including 
the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
Having done so, Im not persuaded that it was clearly set out in the policy terms that Mr and 
Mrs W wouldnt be covered should their trip be cancelled as a result of the FCO advising 
against all but essential international travel. And I dont think the implications of this were 
made clear to them. As such, Im satisfied that this has left Mr and Mrs W in an unfair 
position.
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the
policy in a way thats easy to understand. But the What is not insured section of the IPID 
doesnt include cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but essential travel.
Further, the FCO exclusion in the policy doesnt specify that no cover is provided for 
cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCO advice changing between the date the policy
was bought and the date on which the policyholder was due to start their trip. I also note that 
cover for cancellation of a holiday in such a situation doesnt appear to have been available 
for Mr and Mrs W to purchase as an additional add on or optional extra. 
 
Pages 6 and 7 of the terms and conditions of the policy contain a table of benefits which 
reflects that there is cover for cancellation and cutting short a trip. The limit of cover is 
£3,000. The same information is contained within the IPID, as set out above. 
Both documents also refer the consumer to their policy documents for the full terms and 
conditions of the contract. This means that a consumer would need to go further into the 
detail of the policy wording to establish whether they were able to claim if they had to cancel 
their trip because of changes to FCO guidance after theyd bought their policy. 
And even when a consumer reaches pages 38 to 40 of the policys terms and conditions - 
which sets out the available cover if their trip is cancelled  a claim arising from a change in 
FCO advice isnt listed as a specific exclusion. Instead, this section is silent on whether this 
is something which is covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
Further, I think the section on the policy explaining what will be covered if the consumer is 
unable to travel, on pages 38 to 40, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented 
in the same place. So, I dont think it would be obvious to a policyholder that cover under the 
policy would be significantly restricted if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination 
after they purchased their policy. A consumer would need to cross refer this information with the IPID and page 69 of the policy terms to understand how these terms interrelated with 
one another. 
So, even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might not be able to easily
understand the full effect of the policy. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and
the FCO exclusion under the other sections of the policy are presented separately means
their combined effect isnt clear. 
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between Mr 
and Mrs W and ERGO. Mr and Mrs W were left with limited cover when the FCO advice 
changed, and thats only if they travelled against FCO advice. Whereas if the trip was 
cancelled, they werent covered at all. This shifted the rights and obligations under the 
contract significantly in ERGOs favour. 
Im not satisfied that the terms and conditions properly took Mr and Mrs Ws interests into
account, and - if theyd realised that was how the policy would operate - Im not persuaded 
they wouldve freely agreed to a policy that left them with such limited cover in these 
circumstances.
So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy is
presented is not fair, and ERGO isnt acting in the best interests of Mr and Mrs W, as its 
customers, when presenting the information in this way. 
And as such, I dont think ERGO has fairly and reasonably concluded that Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim isnt covered on the basis that it isnt detailed as an insured peril under the cancellation 
section of the policys terms and conditions. 
When making this finding, I accept that its not practical for the terms and conditions of a 
policy  or an IPID  to list every possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion. 
However, the issue Im considering here is whether I think the specific exclusion from cover 
of cancellation claims arising from a change in FCO travel advice was clearly sign-posted to 
Mr and Mrs W. And I dont think it was. For the reasons set out above, I think the combined 
effect of the policy terms and IPID in this case means it wasnt made reasonably clear or 
obvious to a reasonable policyholder that cover would be significantly restricted if they 
travelled against FCO advice. And nor was it made reasonably clear that theres no cover in 
place at all if they cancelled their travel plans on the basis of FCO advice changing in 
between buying the policy and their intended departure date.
Putting things right
I direct ERGO assess Mr and Mrs Ws claim as if it is covered as an insured peril under the 
cancellation section the policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  
including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and the applicable excess. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
David Curtis-JohnsonOmbudsman