DRN-2867769
The complaint
Miss H complains about Vanquis Bank Limited and their decision to approve three credit 
applications which she thinks was irresponsible.
What happened
Miss H applied for three credit cards with Vanquis between 2017 and 2019. All three 
applications were approved, and she was given a £500 credit limit each time.
But Miss H struggled to maintain payments on these accounts, which resulted in her 
incurring additional charges and defaulting on one of the accounts. Miss H thought these 
credit cards had placed her in greater financial difficulty, so she raised a complaint with 
Vanquis.
Miss H thought Vanquis had approved each of the applications irresponsibly. She thought 
Vanquis shouldve recognised she had outstanding debt with utility providers and on her 
council tax bill at a previous address. And because of this, she thought Vanquis shouldve 
recognised the credit cards were unaffordable to her. So, she wanted to be refunded the 
additional charges and interest these accounts had incurred and have any negative credit 
information removed from her credit file.
Vanquis responded and upheld Miss Hs complaint in part. They agreed theyd unfairly 
approved Miss Hs second and third credit cards, opened in late 2019. They recognised Miss 
H had previously defaulted on an account and, due to how recent the default had been 
applied, they agreed they shouldnt have approved the applications. So, they refunded the 
interest and charges these two accounts incurred and removed them from Miss Hs credit 
file. And they paid Miss H £100 to compensate her for any inconvenience and upset this had 
caused her.
But they didnt think theyd acted unfairly when approving Miss Hs first credit card 
application in 2017. They thought their checks were proportionate and didnt think there was 
any information to suggest the credit card was unaffordable at that time. But they thought 
theyd taken too long to apply the default so backdated it to April 2018. Miss H remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Vanquis offer to 
compensate Miss H for the two accounts opened in 2019 was a fair one, to recognise the 
impact the accounts had on Miss H. So, he didnt think Vanquis needed to do anything more 
for these.
And he thought the checks Vanquis completed for the first account were proportionate and 
didnt think Vanquis had assessed the information these checks provided unfairly. So, he 
didnt think Vanquis needed to do anything more.
Miss H didnt agree. She thought her outstanding debts made it obvious to Vanquis that the 
first card wasnt affordable. She said shed been looking after her child who was suffering 
with ill health at the time and had to rely on benefits at the time the account was taken out. 
So, she maintained her view that the credit card application had been approved irresponsibly 
and wanted to be compensated for this. As Miss H didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Miss H. I can understand how 
worrying it wouldve been for Miss H when she found herself in financial difficulty and was 
unable to maintain the credit card payments. And I can appreciate her concern at how the 
default placed on her credit file may impact her ability to secure credit in the future. So, I 
understand why Miss H would look at the applications Vanquis approved and hold them 
blame for the circumstances shed had to go through.
Vanquis have already accepted their decision to approve to two accounts in late 2019 was 
unfair. And theyve refunded any charges and interest Miss H incurred, as well as removing 
the accounts from Miss Hs credit file. And they offered Miss H £100 to recognise their error. 
I think this offer is a fair one, which places Miss H back in the position she wouldve been 
had the applications not been approved. As Miss H had the benefit of the credit limit, I would 
always have expected Miss H to pay the amount she used back to Vanquis. But shes not 
had to pay interest on this amount and there is no record of the lending on her credit file. So, 
I havent considered these accounts any further as I think Vanquis had provided a 
reasonable offer. It is Miss Hs decision whether she wishes to accept £100, that hasnt yet 
been paid.
But for me to say Vanquis acted unfairly when providing Miss H her first credit card, Id need 
to see one of two things. Either, that the checks Vanquis made when approving the 
application werent proportionate to the credit limit they offered. Or, that Vanquis failed to 
assess the information these checks provide fairly. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
Ive seen the details of the application Miss H made in 2017. Within this, Miss H declared her 
annual household income as £30,000 before tax. And in the application call, Miss H 
confirmed her rent as £850 per month, confirmed she received no grants or benefits and that 
she didnt expect her situation to change in the immediate future. And Ive seen Vanquis also 
completed a check on Miss Hs credit file. So, Vanquis confirmed Miss Hs available income, 
residential status and outstanding debt before approving a credit limit of £500. I think this 
limit is relatively small compared to the available household income Miss H declared. And I 
wouldnt have expected Vanquis to conduct any further checks, such as income and 
expenditure, as the maximum monthly payment Miss H would be asked to pay would be 
small compared to the income that she had available. So, Im satisfied the checks Vanqius 
completed were proportionate.
But Ive also thought about whether Vanquis assessed the information these checks 
provided fairly. Miss H doesnt think Vanquis did this, due to outstanding debt she held and 
the way shed maintained her utility bill accounts.But Ive seen the credit file information Vanquis considered when approving Miss Hs first 
application. I agree it shows Miss H had outstanding debt of £2,200. But, crucially, Miss H 
had no other outstanding credit card and her file report no CCJs or defaults. So, I think this 
showed Miss H had been able to maintain the outstanding debt she had in a reasonable 
manner.
I understand Miss H may have made late payments to her utility providers and why she 
thinks this shouldve led Vanquis to decline the application. But Vanquis are a business that 
purposefully provide credit to customers who may have lower credit scores, to allow them to 
improve their credit ratings. So, this means they allow for some negative credit file 
information to be reported without the applications being automatically declined. And in this 
situation, Miss H had no credit card accounts. And the value of her outstanding debt was 
relatively low, compared to the household income that was available. And Miss H herself 
confirmed she didnt expect her situation to change in the immediate future. So, I dont think 
Ive seen anything to convince me that the credit card was unaffordable, based on the 
information Vanquis had available. And because of this, I cant say Vanquis have acted 
unfairly.
Ive also thought about the comments Miss H provided to our investigators view. Miss H has 
said her child was suffering with ill health and she was relying on benefits at the time the 
application was approved. And this shouldve been considered by Vanquis. But Ive listened 
to the application call between Miss H and Vanquis. And on this call, Vanquis asked Miss H 
if she received any grants or benefits. And Miss H said she didnt. They also asked Miss H if 
she had any further information she thought should be considered. Miss H didnt provide 
anything further. So, I dont think Vanquis couldve known about Miss Hs child, or the 
benefits she was relying upon, so I cant say they acted unfairly when not considering this 
information before approving the application.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss H was hoping for. And I recognise this means the 
first defaulted account will remain on her credit file, which I can appreciate will be worrying 
and potentially limiting to Miss H in the near future. But Vanquis have a duty to report the 
way customers manage their accounts accurately. And as I think Vanquis approved the 
credit card application fairly, Im unable to say the default should be removed as this 
accurately represents Miss Hs management of the account and allows future credit 
providers to fairly decide the risk of future lending. 
But I am aware Vanquis have offered to backdate the default, so its registered on Miss Hs 
file sooner. This means that it will take a shorter amount of time for the default to no longer 
be recorded on Miss Hs credit file. I think this was a fair offer for Vanquis to make, when they 
recognised they hadnt reported the default in a reasonable amount of time.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint about Vanquis Bank 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman