DRN-2718250
The complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid didnt inform him of his credit limit before 
they opened his account.
What happened
Mr A applied for a credit card with Fluid and the decision to accept his application or not was 
referred. He later received communication from Fluid that theyd opened an account for him 
with a £250 credit limit. Mr A complained to Fluid and said he would never have accepted 
such a low credit limit if they had communicated this to him prior to opening the account. 
Mr A exercised his right to close the account within 14 days of it being opened. Fluid did not 
uphold his complaint. They said they made the decision to offer a £250 credit limit in line with 
their responsible lending policy. Mr A brought his complaint to our service and said that Fluid 
misunderstood his complaint. He said that he was disputing why they had opened an 
account for him without any form of contact after the referral screen and wanted the entry on 
his credit file to be reversed. 
During the course of our investigation Fluid made an offer of settlement. They said that the 
complaint handler shouldve noticed that Mr A had closed down his account within 14 days 
of it being opened and under their right to withdraw policy they would remove all Bureau 
searches and records of the customer having credit with Fluid. 
Fluid said they could see no evidence of the account on Mr As credit file but could see a 
search on his credit file on the day he applied to Fluid. While they were unable to ascertain if 
that search is directly related to Mr As application, based on the balance of probability they 
thought it was likely that it was so they said they made arrangements to remove this from his 
credit file. In addition to this they offered £50 compensation to Mr A.
Mr A rejected the compensation as he said the financial detriment to him as a result of the 
credit search being left on his credit file was greater than £50 and he wanted £1,000 to settle 
the complaint. He said that hes been declined from another credit card provider and 
believed that multiple searches on his credit file had impacted his ability to obtain a 0% 
promotional interest rate as he wanted to transfer his current balance with another provider.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint but thought that Fluids offer was fair. The 
investigator said Fluid accepted Mr As application and provided him with credit. Although 
they opened the account without notifying him this hadnt caused a negative impact as Mr A 
made the application for credit and Fluid didnt state that an amount would be confirmed 
prior to the opening of the account. The investigator also said that it is impossible to say if 
the credit search by Fluid was the reason for the declined application elsewhere as there is a 
number of things which are considered in accepting an application for credit. Mr A asked for 
an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fluid have acknowledged that they didnt follow their right to withdraw procedure for Mr A 
and for this theyve offered Mr A £50 compensation and theyve started the process to 
remove what they think is their search on his credit file which was made on the same day he 
applied for credit with them. Im satisfied that this is fair and Ill explain why.
Mr A applied for the credit card and was accepted for the credit card. So, Fluid have a 
responsibility to report this information accurately to credit reference agencies. Although Mr 
A wasnt happy with the credit limit which was offered, I would need to see that Fluid have 
treated him unreasonably in order to award Mr A more compensation and Im not persuaded 
that they have.
As our investigator explained to Mr A, Fluid didnt say to Mr A that they would let Mr A know 
the credit limit before they opened his account, so by not doing so here I dont think theyve 
acted unfairly towards Mr A. I say this as the application was referred to make a decision 
whether to accept his application or not. So Fluid would need to take into account several 
factors before seeing whether they were prepared to accept Mr As application. As he 
applied to open the account, thats what Fluid did for him  opened the account when Fluid 
decided to accept Mr As application, even if the credit limit that Fluid applied was deemed 
too low by Mr A.
Ive taken into consideration what Mr A has said regarding the impact of multiple searches 
on his credit file affecting his ability to obtain credit. But based on the evidence Ive seen Im 
not persuaded this is the fault of Fluid. Theyve said that one of the searches conducted may 
be from them, therefore, in isolation, this is unlikely to have a significant impact on Mr As 
ability to obtain credit or promotional interest rates. It would be unfair to hold them 
responsible for searches of his credit file which they didnt make. It would be equally unfair to 
hold them responsible for a different credit card company declining Mr As application as 
they would have their own set of criteria for acceptance which may differ to Fluids.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with the compensation offered but I think that the £50 
compensation and removal of the credit search Fluid potentially made is fair for the reasons 
Ive already given so it follows that I will be asking Fluid to put things right.
Putting things right
Fluid have offered to pay Mr A £50 for not following their right to withdraw process. They 
have also agreed to remove any searches they registered on his credit file. I think that this is 
fair in the circumstances.  
My final decision
NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid should pay Mr A £50 and remove any credit searches on Mr As 
credit file that they should have removed under their right to withdraw process.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021. 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman