DRN-4063364
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admirals) decision to 
cancel his motor vehicle insurance policy and decline his claim for the theft of his motor 
vehicle.
What happened
Mr M had insured his vehicles with Admiral since 2012. In May 2021, he received an email 
from Admiral informing him that his policy would automatically be renewed, unless he 
instructed otherwise.
On 30 October 2021, Mr Ms vehicle was stolen. He notified Admiral of his claim for the 
stolen vehicle.
Admiral wrote to Mr M on 17 November 2021 to ask why he hadnt disclosed three SP30 
offences, dating from 10 June 2019, when renewing his policy over the subsequent years. 
Admirals letter highlighted a term in the policy which said failure to keep his information up 
to date could affect his ability to claim on the policy. The letter concluded by saying that 
Admiral reserved the right to withdraw indemnity for the claim until it had completed its 
enquiries.
Mr M responded to Admirals request for an explanation on 14 December 2021. In summary, 
he said that he didnt intentionally or knowingly withhold the existence of the offence but had 
assumed Admiral would have carried out checks which would have revealed that 
information. 
In February 2022, Admiral wrote to Mr M to inform him that it had declared his policy null and 
void from the renewal date of 16 June 2021. Admiral also said that consequently, it would 
not be accepting the claim he made for the theft of his motor vehicle.
Mr M complained to Admiral about its actions in June 2022. He accepted he hadnt declared 
three SP30 offences when renewing his policy, but he didnt agree that amounted to a 
qualifying misrepresentation, and certainly not a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. 
Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint so he brought it to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and initially issued a limited information view 
upholding the complaint because Admiral hadnt provided evidence that Mr M wouldnt have 
been provided with cover if hed disclosed all of the driving offences. However, in response 
to his view, Admiral did provide that information. 
After considering Admirals further submissions, our investigator issued a second view not 
upholding the complaint. In summary, he found that Admiral had reasonably concluded that 
Mr Ms misrepresentation was reckless / deliberate and had acted fairly, and in accordance 
with the relevant legislation, in voiding Mr Ms policy and declining his claim. 
Mr M strongly disagreed with our investigators conclusion and requested an ombudsmans 
decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I will explain why. 
Mr M has made a number of submissions about his complaint, which I confirm Ive read and 
considered in full. However, in this decision, I will only be referring to the submissions and 
evidence that are relevant to the key issues Im deciding. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, 
rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, and my role in deciding complaints with 
the minimum of formality. 
The key issue in dispute is whether Admiral has fairly classified Mr Ms misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless. Mr M strongly believes that any misrepresentation he may have 
made was simply careless, as he held a genuine belief that Admiral already knew about the 
penalties he had incurred before 30 May 2021 and he didnt think it needed to be updated 
about them.
The relevant law which applies to this complaint is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If the consumer fails to do this, the insurer can take certain actions, as long as the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation. If the insurer can show that it would 
have offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation, then it will be a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. The actions the insurer is permitted to take, under CIDRA, will depend on 
whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or careless.
Ive first considered whether Mr M made a misrepresentation to Admiral when he renewed 
his motor vehicle policy, and Im satisfied that he did. He was asked, in the renewal 
documents and on the call, to confirm that the information provided was correct and that no 
changes needed to be made. Mr M provided that confirmation. So, as a matter of fact, given 
that the three SP30 offences werent shown as having already been disclosed to Admiral, 
Mr M misrepresented his driving record to Admiral. 
I appreciate that Mr M has a number of reasons as to why he didnt disclose these offences, 
including, among other things: that he assumed Admiral already knew about them; hed 
forgotten about them; and the relevant information was hard to find in the renewal 
documentation. However, Mr M hadnt accurately represented his driving record, including 
offences and penalty points given in the last five years, to Admiral.
In considering whether Mr M took reasonable care not to make a representation, Ive first 
considered the policy documentation. 
In the first paragraph of the General conditions, starting on page 20 of the policy terms and 
conditions, under the heading: Your duties, it says: 
The cover in this policy is valid providing:
you or any other insured person have kept to all the terms and conditions of the policythe information confirmed on your current Motor Proposal Confirmation and when 
registering a claim is true and complete
Then in paragraph 15 of that section, under the heading: Changes in circumstances it says: 
You must tell us if any information on your Motor Proposal Confirmation changes. 
Failure to keep your information up to date could result in your policy being cancelled or 
declared void. 
The notification timescales specify that if any information shown on the Motor Proposal 
Confirmation (the MPC) changes, then Admiral needs to be told immediately. And when 
renewing the policy, the insured needs to tell Admiral if any information shown on the MPC 
changes. 
The MPC was sent to Mr M with the renewal documentation. At the top of page two of the 
MPC it says: Motoring offences: Have you or any driver been involved in any motoring 
offenses in the last 5 years, including fixed penalties, convictions, disqualifications or have 
any pending prosecution other than those listed? In the table below, only the speed 
awareness course was listed dated February 2018. Given three motoring offences were 
missing from the table, I think Mr M ought reasonably to have realised that the information 
Admiral had about his driving record, was incomplete and therefore incorrect. 
The importance of providing accurate and up to date information was highlighted in the 
policy terms above, and also, directly beneath the table included in the MPC, under the 
heading Declaration. It said: It is an offence under the Road Traffic Act to make a false 
statement or withhold any information to gain the issue of a Motor Insurance Certificate. Any 
incorrect information could lead to us declaring your policy void and/or declining any claim. It 
goes on to say: We use all the information contained on this form to assess the risk we are 
undertaking. You should disclose this information accurately and you must contact us if any 
information is incorrect or has changed.
Mr M told us that he assumed Admiral already had the SP30 information, and hed forgotten 
about some of it. However, it ought reasonably to have been clear, on reviewing the MPC, 
that Admiral wasnt aware of that information. And it wouldnt have been difficult for Mr M to 
check the details himself, before confirming the accuracy of the information to Admiral. Im 
also satisfied that Mr M had the opportunity to correct this information, when he spoke to 
Admiral, but I cant see that he did. So, Im satisfied Mr M did misrepresent his driving record 
to Admiral.
For the misrepresentation to be a qualifying misrepresentation, Admiral needs to show that if 
it had received accurate information from Mr M, it either wouldnt have offered the insurance 
policy or only would have offered it on different terms. 
Admiral has provided evidence to show that while it still would have offered Mr M the policy, 
if hed provided accurate information, the premiums for the policy following each renewal 
after a traffic offence had occurred, would have been significantly higher. Im therefore 
satisfied that as Admiral would have only offered the policy to Mr M on different terms, the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
The remedy that CIDRA makes available to the insurer, on a qualifying misrepresentation 
being made, depends on whether the misrepresentation was careless or deliberate or 
reckless. This is the key issue in dispute in Mr Ms complaint, that is, whether Admiral has 
fairly classified Mr Ms misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Mr M strongly believes that any misrepresentation he may have made was simply careless, 
as he held a genuine belief that Admiral already knew about the penalties he had incurred 
before 30 May 2021. He says that it is his state of mind that was relevant, when speaking 
with Admiral, and he believes that his state of mind showed he didnt recklessly or 
deliberately withhold the information from Admiral. Mr M reiterated that as he thought 
Admiral had access to any penalties incurred prior to 30 May 2021, he didnt think it needed 
to be updated about them. 
However, Admiral firmly believes that the misrepresentation made by Mr M was at best, 
reckless, and has provided a number of reasons in support of its stance. In summary, 
Admiral said:
The June 2019 and September 2019 offences should have been declared at the policy 
renewal in June 2020. As no disclosure was made, the policy renewed then, and again in 
2021 at a significantly lower premium than should have been charged. Admiral said it 
would regard a driver with motoring offences as being higher risk, so premiums are 
significantly impacted by adding motoring offences to the policy; 
It doesnt accept Mr Ms explanation for not declaring the offences because he thought 
the DLVA would provide the relevant update. Admiral explained that as Mr M didnt 
provide his driving licence number in his application, Admiral couldnt validate his 
answers against DVLA records, so his driving data was self-declared;
Mr M was asked about his motoring offences when he took the policy out and on every 
renewal thereafter by Admiral supplying him with an MPC showing the answers hed 
already given to those questions. The only answer given was a speed awareness course 
he attended in 2018, which Admiral says shows Mr M knew it was important to declare 
that information;
After Mr M received his renewal documents on 15 June 2021, Admiral asked him if his 
policy needed updating, and he volunteered that he had no penalties, which was not 
accurate; and
A quotation Mr M carried out online two weeks after his call with Admiral, shows hed 
declared a speeding offence with six points, and although that information wasnt 
accurate, Admiral says it shows Mr M understood that such information affects the price 
payable for insurance. 
In summary, Admiral believes these factors show that Mr M knew or did not care his answer 
was misleading and knew or did not care that the misrepresented information was relevant 
to Admiral.
Where the evidence is inconsistent or contradictory as it is here, I make my decision on the 
basis of what I think more likely than not is the case. And having carefully considered the 
available evidence, Im of the view that Mr Ms misrepresentation was reckless. The number 
of offences Mr M failed to disclose to Admiral, over a number of years, and the other actions 
Mr M took, which demonstrated that he did know the importance of disclosing traffic offences 
when taking out a motor vehicle policy, among other things, persuades me that the 
misrepresentation was reckless.
On 15 June 2021 Mr M answered, in response to being asked whether there were any 
updates: no penalties or anything like that. He explained to our investigator that he thought 
he was being asked about the previous two weeks. However, two weeks later when he was 
obtaining a comparison quote, Mr M disclosed six penalty points. He explained to our 
investigator that hed forgotten about the other points and had included the six points in that quote request, but hadnt told Admiral about them, because he thought Admiral already 
knew of them. However, as Ive already explained, the MPC didnt list any of the three SP30 
offences so I dont think it was reasonable for Mr M to assume Admiral was aware of them. 
Mr M also said he thought Admiral would have been updated about his driving offences 
directly by the DVLA. However, insurers can only obtain information from the DVLA with the 
consent of the policyholder. And Admiral told us that Mr M didnt provide his drivers licence 
number when he applied for the policy. I also note that Mr M failed to provide the correct 
information to Admiral at both the 2020 and 2021 renewals, so had the benefit of reduced 
premiums during that period.
As Admiral has demonstrated a reckless qualifying misrepresentation took place, it was 
entitled to avoid the policy, decline Mr Ms claim and not return his premiums in line with 
CIDRA  which is what it has done. While Mr M has complained that this is unfair, as hes 
had to pay for a policy that hes received no benefit from, as Mr M made a reckless 
misrepresentation, in the circumstances I think it was reasonable for Admiral to keep his 
premium. 
As Mr M made a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, Admiral acted fairly and reasonably 
in exercising its rights under CIDRA, in avoiding Mr Ms policy, keeping the premiums and 
declining his claim for the theft of his motor vehicle. I therefore wont be asking Admiral to do 
anything differently in relation to Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman