DRN-4251606
The complaint
Mr E says Bamboo Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr E took out a loan for £1,000 over 18 months from Bamboo in July 2021. The monthly 
repayments were £82.55 and the total repayable was £1,482.13. He says he was just taking 
out loans to pay off other loans and getting deeper into debt. This has impacted him 
financially and taken its toll on his health.
Our investigator upheld Mr Es complaint. She said there were signs Mr E might not be able 
to repay the loan sustainably.
Bamboo disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, it said its checks 
were proportionate and Mr E had an excellent credit profile with no current arrears or 
defaults. He had just one active payday loan and was not taking out cash on credit. He made 
nine repayments on time before settling the loan early.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Es complaint. 
These two questions are: 
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr E 
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences? - If 
so, did it make fair lending decisions? If not, would those checks have shown that Mr E 
wouldve been able to do so? 
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Es ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr E. In practice this 
meant that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Mr E undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr E. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint. Bamboo has provided evidence to 
show that before each loan it asked for some information from Mr E. It asked for his monthly 
income, his employment status and his housing costs. It completed income verification 
checks with a third-party and used national statistics to make an assumption about his living 
costs. It carried out a credit check to understand his credit history and his existing credit 
commitments. Based on the results of these checks Bamboo thought it was fair to lend as  
Mr E had around £838 disposable income each month.
There has been debate between the investigator and Bamboo about whether or not its 
checks were proportionate, but I need not make a finding in this point as even based on the 
information it gathered I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending decision. Ill explain why.
When Mr E applied for this loan Bamboos assessment showed he was already spending 
around £805 of his income each month to repay existing debt  so around a third of his 
income. I think this ought to have concerned Bamboo. As the industry is aware, consumers 
spending a high proportion of their income on credit are at risk of falling into financial 
difficulties. So I dont think it was responsible to increase this further. Bamboo argues that  
its loan can often be the first positive step away from using payday loans. But it did not verify 
this was his plan. In fact, it said in its submission that Mr Es loan was for a special 
purchase  and this was what Mr E said on the application follow-up call I have listened to. 
So Bamboo was aware in this case its loan was increasing Mr Es indebtedness, and not 
being used to settle more expensive debt.
Bamboos credit check showed Mr E was using 92% of his available revolving credit, that he 
had opened three loan accounts in the prior two months, and that he had an active payday 
loan. He had made only the minimum payments on revolving credit six times in the last 12 
months. And he was overdrawn (and almost at his limit) on one of his current accounts. So 
in the round I think there were indicators that Mr E was already under financial pressure and 
most likely in a cycle of borrowing to repay. In addition, I think Bamboo ought to considered it 
unusual that if Mr E had £838 disposable income each month he would opt to take out an 
expensive loan for £1,000.
Bamboo argues that Mr E met all his repayments for 9 months and then repaid the loan 
early. But it does not know how he did this and Mr Es testimony is that it was by again 
borrowing to repay.Overall, I find there were sufficient indicators in the available information that giving Mr E this 
loan would likely cause financial harm.
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to lend to Mr E. I have not seen any evidence it acted 
unfairly towards Mr E in some other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr E to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he had 
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been provided to him. Bamboo must put this right. 
It should: 
 Refund all interest and charges Mr E paid on his loan. 
 As reworking Mr Es loan account in this way will result in him having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*. 
 Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation to the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should give Mr E 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Es complaint. Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman