DRN-3252477
The complaint
Mr M complains through his representative that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as 
Simply Be irresponsibly provided him with, and increased the credit limit on, a mail order 
account so he couldnt afford the repayments.
What happened
Simply Be provided Mr M with a mail order credit account on 26 December 2017. The initial 
credit limit was £125. This was then increased as follows:
20/02/2018 £125 - £225
15/05/2018 £225 - £400
10/07/2018    £600 - £750
Mr M began getting into difficulties over the payments from around March 2019 and he 
began exceeding the credit limit. He made a complaint through his representative that the 
credit was unaffordable.
Simply Be said it assesses all credit applications and credit limit increases applied using 
several sources of information, which includes information provided by a Credit Reference 
Agency. It also is very careful to use up to date information regarding a potential customers 
financial status, along with other internal eligibility criteria that they must meet before it is 
able to offer a credit account or an increase to their credit limit. In Mr Ms case it assessed 
that the initial limit was affordable. It increased the limit when the account was well 
maintained and its internal credit score and Mr Ms external credit score was satisfactory. It 
has produced some records of the account history but the main records of the application 
arent available having been disposed of after three years. It has produced a credit report up 
to date as of December 2021.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator said that looking at Mr Ms 
credit file at the time of the account application, he had a number of high interest credit 
facilities open, including several short-term lending facilities. He was also behind on 
payments and in a payment plan for some of the other credit facilities. Two of Mr Ms 
accounts had defaulted and sold to a debt collection agency prior to the Simply Be account 
application being approved. Based on this, our investigator said that Simply Be shouldnt 
have approved Mr M for the account.
Simply Be didnt agree. it pointed out the it wouldnt be proportionate for it to carry out a full 
income and expenditure check for a credit limit of £125. And that it wouldnt be reasonable to 
say a defaulted account in the credit report is a reason to decline to provide the account.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Simply Be complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Simply Be ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ms 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
In reviewing this matter Ive taken into account that the records of the application are 
incomplete. In particular Ive seen no contemporary record of the checks Simply Be said it 
carried out. I would expect those records to be kept for six years though it would appear that 
Simply Be only kept them for three years.
In deciding whether an applicant can afford to repay any credit a basic income and 
expenditure assessment needed to be carried out, and Im unsure why Simply Be argues it 
wasnt necessary for a £125 credit limit. Here, once that limit had been set my understanding 
is that for future credit limit increases as long as the consumer was managing their account 
well and had a satisfactory external credit score, this increase would be applied unless the 
consumer opts out. So whilst a small limit may be a minimal credit risk, a more detailed 
review may be necessary when the limit increased to around £750.
I have looked at the credit report obtained in December 2021. Since this contains records 
going back six years its possible to discern that at the time of the application Mr M had three 
accounts that had defaulted in the previous six months, two communications and one credit 
card. In addition to this he had a substantial debt with a water company, an HP loan, an 
ordinary loan, and another credit card. Mr M also took out an additional loan in April 2018 
(before the first increase) and two more in June 2018 (before the second increase). Its not 
possible now to reconstruct Mr Ms credit commitments (because of the lack of records), but 
I would say that three recent defaults were on the face of it a reason to deny Mr M the credit 
in the first place especially as this the initial limit was a leader into increasing that limit.
Im further not persuaded that Simply Be carried out proper affordability assessments. So I 
dont think Simply Be should have provided the account or increased the limit.
Putting things right
As I dont think Simply Be ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr M should 
pay back the amounts they have borrowed. Therefore, Simply Be should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr M along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Simply Be should also remove all adverse information regarding this account 
from Mr Ms credit file. Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Simply Be should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining amount. Once Mr M has cleared 
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from 
their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Simply Be to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Simply Be to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman