DRN-2331648
The complaint
Mr G complains that Vehicle Credit Limited irresponsibly gave him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford.
What happened
In August 2016, Mr G acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from Vehicle 
Credit Limited (VCL). The cash price of the car was £7,447 and the total repayable under 
the agreement was around £12,500. Mr G was required to make 36 monthly repayments of 
around £350. The agreement ran to its full term and Mr G made the last payment in August 
2019. 
Mr G complained to VCL around the time of the end of the agreement. He said that the loan 
was unaffordable and should never have been given to him. VCL replied saying they 
wouldnt be upholding Mr Gs complaint. They said that Mr G had met their minimum lending 
requirement and theyd approved the finance following an extensive review of his income 
and expenditure, from information gathered from Mr G and from his credit file. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said that VCL had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks initially but hadnt appropriately considered 
the information that it had obtained, and that due consideration hadnt been given to Mr Gs 
overall financial situation. He said that, had VCL done this, they would have likely discovered 
the agreement was unaffordable. Our investigator recommended that VCL should refund all 
the interest and charges under the agreement adding 8% simple per year to the refund and 
removing all adverse information from Mr Gs credit file.
Mr G accepted those recommendations. VCL didnt reply although it later said it had nothing 
further to add once our investigator made both parties aware that the case was being put 
forward for an ombudsmans decision. 
As agreement could not be reached between the parties, Mr Gs complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. 
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
1. Did VCL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way? 
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr G 
could sustainably repay the borrowing? 
2. Did VCL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mr G has been disadvantaged in any way by VCLs actions, Ill go onto consider 
what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Did VCL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G would be 
able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way? 
Before granting credit, VCL were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Gs ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. This is often referred to as 
an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr G could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his 
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter is the 
risk posed to VCL as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as an 
assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to: 
 The amount of credit; 
 The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments; 
 The duration of the agreement; 
 The cost of the credit; and 
 The consumers individual circumstances. 
So there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered proportionate as any of 
these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and proportionate check ought to 
be. 
The total amount repayable under the hire purchase agreement was around £12,500 over a 
term of 36 months. The monthly repayments were around £350. When VCL assessed Mr 
Gs income and expenditure, they would have learnt that these monthly repayments were 
almost the same amount as Mr Gs monthly mortgage payments. This means this particular 
commitment was likely to be quite significant financially for Mr G. On that basis, I think a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been relatively 
thorough. 
VCL said it completed a credit check and verified Mr Gs income using payslips. It said this 
showed he earned around £2,220 per month. VCL also said that they carried out an 
extensive review of Mr Gs income and expenditure, using his last months bank statement.
Ive seen that VCL did obtain the evidence as they described. So, they had gathered quite a 
significant amount of information about Mr Gs financial situation. Ive mentioned above that I 
would have expected, given the level of financial commitment that was being proposed, that a thorough check would have been appropriate. I consider that VCL carried out a 
proportionate check, at least in theory from the information they gathered, before agreeing to 
give Mr G the finance. 
Did Vehicle Credit make a fair lending decision?
Ive mentioned above that VCL carried out a proportionate lending check to begin with. 
However, VCL was still required to carry out an assessment of Mr Gs ability to repay any 
credit advanced. So it was imperative that they carried out an appropriate assessment of the 
information it gathered. 
Ive looked at the information in question and will start with the credit check VCL carried out. 
Our investigator asked VCL to comment on the number of defaulted accounts and the two 
County Court Judgements that VCL would have seen. VCL said that their underwriting 
criteria was such that this wouldnt have led to them declining Mr Gs finance application 
(essentially because they werent recent). 
VCL is of course entitled to have their own underwriting criteria for assessing finance 
applications. However, their obligation was to still ensure they carried out a borrower-
focussed check and that Mr G was able to repay the credit sustainably. And this is brought 
into particular focus in this case as VCL had asked Mr G to confirm his income and 
expenditure which included documentary proof in the form of a bank statement. 
VCLs credit check showed that Mr G had defaulted on at least eight different credit accounts 
over the previous four years. I accept that the last defaulted entry was around two years 
before Mr Gs credit application. So VCL could argue that he was in a better position now 
than previously. However, because Mr G had shown such evident difficulty in managing his 
credit commitments relatively recently to the application, I think VLC should have ensured 
that Mr Gs financial position was robust enough to take on the proposed credit. 
I think an immediate area of potential concern from the credit check was the number of credit 
accounts that Mr G had taken out in the previous six months. According to the credit check 
information VCL had, Mr G had taken out 22 new credit lines in that time. That is, I would 
argue, rather more than the average person would normally have taken out. It also looks like 
the information showed that some of these accounts had fallen into arrears. So I think VCL 
should have been on notice to ensure they took this into account when they carried out the 
income and expenditure check. 
VCL has sent us the copy of the income and expenditure they took into account, which 
presumably came from assessing Mr Gs bank statement. I say that because I note that VCL 
put down Mr Gs income as £2,228.97 which corresponded to his pay shown in the bank 
statement. On the face of it, it looks like VCL correctly assessed Mr Gs monthly income. I do 
note though that the copies of Mr Gs payslips that VCL obtained for the two months prior, 
showed that a fair chunk of Mr Gs income came from commission rather than solely from a 
fixed salary. I cant see that VCL asked Mr G about this, so there was a danger that the 
amount VCL used wasnt one that would be constant throughout. 
However, its possible that this would have been a constant. I think the more concerning 
issue for me is how VCL assessed Mr Gs expenditure. The income and expenditure form 
that was completed broke down Mr Gs monthly expenditure for his mortgage, council tax, 
utilities and running costs for using a car as well as amounts for social use, clothing and 
food. 
VCL calculated total monthly expenditure of just over £1,100 which they said gave Mr G 
disposable monthly income of just over £800 after allowing for possible emergency expenses and undisclosed other commitments. 
However, VCL also used a figure of £15 for Mr Gs existing credit commitments each month, 
although this appeared to be revised to £140 upon further assessment. 
Ive already highlighted above that VCLs credit check showed that Mr G had taken out 22 
new lines of credit in the previous six months. I think it implausible that this would have 
equated to monthly commitments of £140 as VCL assessed, bearing in mind that Mr G still 
had other existing commitments that needed meeting, for example the balances on the large 
number of defaulted accounts remained outstanding. Not only that, the bank statement that 
Mr G provided shows that his account balance went down to pretty much zero after only a 
couple of weeks after hed been paid. I fail to see how VCL could have properly assessed Mr 
Gs expenditure when this hadnt been looked into further. 
Mr G has told us that he had a number of payday loans at the time he applied for finance 
with VCL. These are no longer showing on Mr Gs credit file, although he has sent us 
confirmation from a debt purchaser that he had at least three active payday loans at that 
time. I think it highly likely that a large proportion of the new lines of credit that Ive referred 
to were in fact payday loans which meant that Mr G was heavily extended with credit 
commitments at that time. 
Had VCL properly assessed Mr Gs expenditure bearing in mind what Ive said above, I think 
they would have clearly seen that this loan wasnt affordable. Mr Gs bank statement for 
example shows that he had another account he was using. Had VCL asked for that, which I 
believe they should have done had they carried out a thorough assessment of Mr Gs 
income and expenditure, they would have seen, like I have, that this other account had very 
little credit balance in the months leading up to the finance being considered. Not only that, 
Mr G had had around 30 direct debits returned because of insufficient funds.
Taking everything into account, I simply cant see how VCL assessed that Mr G had the level 
of disposable income they calculated. Had they given proper scrutiny to this, they would 
have seen, like I have, that Mr G had little to no disposable income and that taking on an 
extra financial commitment of around £350 a month simply wasnt affordable or sustainable. 
Therefore, I dont think VCL made a fair lending decision and needs to put things right.
Did VCL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Looking at the account statement, it seems that Mr G struggled to make the repayments 
towards the agreement relatively quickly after entering into it, although it doesnt appear that 
VCL levied any charges in respect of this. Ive seen that there were a number of messages 
sent to Mr G that VCL planned to immobilise the vehicle if he didnt pay his arrears. This no 
doubt would have caused Mr G some distress and hes said that he had to prioritise paying 
for the vehicle at the expense of utilities and council tax. I have no reason to doubt what Mr 
G has said here as I find his testimony completing and plausible. 
Putting things right 
Its not possible to put Mr G back in exactly the position he would have been in but for VCLs 
unfair lending decision. Mr G is presumably now the owner of the car as he paid everything 
owing under the agreement. So I think its reasonable he pays the cash price of the car. 
However, as I dont think VCL should have approved the hire purchase agreement, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable for it to be able to charge for what it lent to Mr G. VCL should therefore refund all the interest and charges it applied to the agreement, treating 
everything hes paid in excess of the original cash price of the car as an overpayment. VCL 
should also add 8% simple interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date 
of settlement. This is because Mr G has been deprived of using that money elsewhere 
during that time. Lastly, Mr G was in arrears for a considerable period of time during the 
agreement meaning VCL will have likely recorded adverse information on his credit file. I 
dont think this is a fair reflection of his willingness and ability to repay because it was only 
due to VCLs unfair lending decision that caused him to not be able to repay. VCL should 
therefore remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to 
this agreement.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Vehicle Credit Limited to: 
Refund all the interest and charges that were added to the agreement. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on those refunds from the date of each overpayment 
to the date of settlement.
Remove all adverse information from Mr Gs credit file in relation to this agreement. 
If Vehicle Credit Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my 
award it should provide Mr G a certificate showing how much its taken off so that he can 
reclaim that amount, assuming he is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman