DRN-2854327
The complaint
Mr C complains abut Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) over its decision not to allow him to 
add items to his insurance claim. He wants Aviva to pay him compensation for his damaged 
items. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr C engaged a relocation service (S) to move his possessions from Europe 
to the UK. He enrolled with Ss all risk protection group policy, which was underwritten by 
Aviva. 
Collection of Mr Cs possessions took place on 30 June 2020. Mr Cs family noted that the 
member of staff from S needed assistance and they were concerned he was not taking 
sufficient care. Another member of staff ultimately joined him to pack the remaining 
possessions.  
Mr Cs possessions were delivered to his home in the UK on 16 July 2020. Mr C immediately 
noticed damage to two items, a chest of drawers and a beside table. 
Mr C submitted a claim for these items under the group policy on 21 July 2020. Two days 
later, Mr C noticed damage to two armchairs. These were valuable and insured at around 
£4000 each. 
Mr C tried to update his claim to include the two chairs but was prevented from doing so by 
S. 
S offered Mr C a settlement of £195.50 for his bedside table and chest of drawers. Mr C 
rejected this offer. 
He complained to S that he had been denied his request toad the armchairs to his claim. S 
rejected his complaint, but later increased its offer for his claim by around £10. 
Aviva wrote to Aviva to complain. Aviva sent him its final response in October 2020. Aviva 
explained that the scheme rules allowed for only one claim per enrolment and the supporting 
information made clear that consumers should ensure that they had checked all items before 
submitting a claim. 
Aviva therefore rejected Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C was unhappy at this and contacted us. He felt that the information provided on the 
enrolment form was unclear and suggested he had longer to add to his claim. He also felt it 
was unfair to reject the later items as they had been damaged by S. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out their view to the parties. This 
was that the information provided with the enrolment form was clear and it was explained 
that only one claim could be submitted. She therefore thought that Aviva had acted fairly in 
rejecting the complaint. 
Mr C did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Cs upset and frustration at what has happened here. It is clear that the 
items which sustained damage are valuable and he thinks that S did not take adequate care 
of them. 
When looking at this type of complaint, however, I am looking at whether the financial 
business acted fairly and reasonably, bearing in mind the way it has said it would act.
In this case the group policy provides cover for users of the relocation service, in order to 
cover damage sustained in transit. Aviva, underwriting this cover, is entitled to set scheme 
rules to restrict claims (such as a time limit in which to claim), so long as it is clear and 
upfront about these rules. 
I have reviewed the scheme rules and think these are clear. At the outset of the document it 
asks consumers to read the entirety of the document first, before enrolling. 
There is a section within the document entitled How to Make a Claim, under which heading 
it is explained that claimants have 30 days in which to make a claim, which should include a 
full list of items being claimed for (emphasis added). 
Underneath it states: Please note: Additional items will not be considered once you have 
submitted your claim notification, so please ensure you have included all the items you wish 
to claim for.
I think this term is clear and the consumers attention has been drawn to it early, before 
enrolling in the scheme. 
It is clear that Mr C submitted his claim before he noticed the damage to the chairs and then 
he wished to add these. He believes that his claim was not finalised when it was submitted, 
but the clause describes submission of the claim as the point at which it becomes final. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr C, but I agree with the investigators view 
that it is reasonable of Aviva to rely on this restriction, as it was clear and given due 
prominence. 
Consequently, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and do not ask Aviva Insurance Limited to 
do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and do not ask Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-SmithOmbudsman