DRN-1097238
complaint
Mrs L complains that she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in April 1997.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs L bought the PPI policy in April 1997, a few years after she took out the store card. The 
policy was taken out to protect her store card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Having done this, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
FICL has told us that the PPI was sold to Mrs L during a telephone call some time after    
Mrs L took out the store card. FICL says Mrs L would have been given a choice about the 
PPI. Unfortunately, FICL hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call in which the sale 
took place or a copy of the sales script the lender would have used when selling the PPI to 
Mrs L. This isnt surprising given the sale took place over 20 years ago. As a result, I dont 
know what was said in the discussion between Mrs L and the lender.
So, Ive had to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time 
of sale. It looks like Mrs L initially applied for her store card without PPI. FICL later phoned 
her to sell her a policy. And following that call, a policy was set up. Mrs L had already had 
use of her card for some time before the PPI was added to it, so I think she would have 
known that she didnt have to have PPI with her card. Overall, I dont think Ive seen enough 
in this case to make me think its more likely that the policy was added without Mrs Ls 
agreement. Instead, I think its more likely Mrs L agreed to take it out, knowing that she didnt 
have to.
 
FICL says it didnt recommend that Mrs L take out the PPI. Mrs L on the other hand says it 
did. So Ive thought about what both parties have said, taking into account the available 
information from the time of sale. Having considered this, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that FICL assessed Mrs Ls circumstances at the time and recommended that Mrs L take out the PPI. This means FICL didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make 
sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Im satisfied Mrs L chose to take out 
the PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs L has told us she would have been entitled to statutory sick pay if she was too unwell to 
work. Having thought about what Mrs L has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means 
she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to the statutory sick pay Mrs L would have received. The PPI also would have paid 
a benefit if Mrs L was ever made redundant.
So overall, I think Mrs L could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman