DRN-3857512
The complaint
Mr F complains about the transfer of his holdings by AJ Bell Securities Limited, referred to
AJB or the business from a third-party business referred to as the transferor.
To put things right, Mr F would like some meaningful compensation, and be allowed to
transfer his investments to another provider without incurring exit fees.
What happened
On 23 June 2023, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision, I said: 
provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, despite what the parties say, I dont think the additional £100 compensation offered 
by AJB (making a total of £150) is fair or reasonable in the circumstances.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed and eloquent
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I
hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues,
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. It doesnt mean Ive not considered the pertinent
points in this case.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr F, and AJB, and reach what I think is an
independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. And as part of my
inquisitorial role, I can also consider (other) issues that I think are relevant as well as not
consider issues that I consider arent material for my findings. Im also not required to
answer Mr Fs questions and queries, and my choosing not to do so doesnt prevent me from
reaching a fair decision in this case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide,
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Because AJB has already upheld the complaint  by that I mean it accepts responsibility for
its part in the delays  the key issue for me to consider is redress and whether or not its
reasonable in the circumstances. I note the investigator took a similar approach in drafting
her view and why she didnt go into detail about why AJB was to blame.
I note Mr F doesnt agree with this approach, but I think its a reasonable approach in the
circumstances. Also, because this specific complaint is against AJB, I wont be considering
the transferors liability  which Ive considered separately and not upheld  in my findings in
this complaint. I dont think the investigator was wrong to take a similar approach.
Having considered the issue of redress, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite
what Mr F says, I think AJB should pay Mr F an additional £100 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience caused by the delays and poor service totalling a sum of £250.
On balance, I think this amount better reflects AJBs wrongdoing, as well as the impact of the
delays on Mr F. To be clear, I dont consider the £150 offered - £50 of which has already
been paid for failing to appropriately respond to Mr F  as a gesture of goodwill, is
reasonable in the circumstances. Thats why I think the business should pay an additional
£100 for the delays and poor service.
In my opinion, the £250 compensation all in broadly reflects various adverse issues
experienced by Mr F during the transfer process for which AJB is responsible  including the
delays between April and May 2023 (when AJB failed to respond to the transferors asset list
in a timely manner), its part in the reclassification error, not spotting an unsettled investment
sooner, and generally not being more proactive in chasing the transferor and keeping Mr F
better informed.
Im mindful of Mr Fs comments about the initial £100 being worth less now than it was when
it was offered in October 2021. Be that as it may, it was always open for Mr F to accept the
payment and still refer his complaint to this service, on the basis that it still wasnt enough.
Im also aware of the points made by Mr F about what he thinks our service should award by
way of redress  encompassing a fixed daily amount. But despite what he says, Im obliged
to follow the general guidance regarding compensation that applies in this instance.
I appreciate that if a complaint is upheld, and distress and inconvenience is accepted  for
which compensation is due  then thats what should generally happen. So, in this instance I
can see why Mr F wouldve been confused by the goodwill payment, which probably
suggested to him that AJB doesnt accept any wrongdoing but is simply offering this amount
to maintain relations  which evidently isnt the case here.
Whilst I appreciate Mr F would like greater compensation, I dont think £250, taken in the
round, is unreasonable in the circumstances. Im aware that all of his issues one way or
another are related to investments that are the subject of this complaint, therefore I dont
think its necessary for me to breakdown the amount.
I dealt with Mr Fs linked complaint against the transferor, which I didnt uphold, on the basis
that the £350 compensation paid for the distress and inconvenience caused by delays and
poor service (including some accounting irregularities) was broadly fair and reasonable in
the circumstances. So, in the circumstances Im mindful that Mr F will receive a combined 
total of £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by the delays and poor 
service experienced during the transfer process.
In summary, I uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Based on what AJB says, it seems it accepts that it caused delay and didnt provide a 
level of service that Mr F could expect.
I dont think its necessary in this instance to go through each point, line by line, and 
as I explained above thats not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in 
this case.
As I mentioned in the linked case, notwithstanding Mr Fs detailed and eloquent 
response, Im not required to produce a response that mirrors (in this instance a 26-
page response) to the investigators view.
On balance, AJB probably couldve communicated better with Mr F, so as to keep him informed of what was happening. As a consequence, he ended up chasing the 
business and I agree (with him) its not something that he needed to have done. It 
wouldve been down to the respective parties to progress matters without further 
input from him.
Its likely that had Mr F not intermittently intervened and pushed matters along, the 
transfer process probably wouldve taken longer. However, this doesnt of itself mean 
that he is entitled to greater compensation, its arguable that he has mitigated his loss 
by diligently acting as he did.
Despite what Mr F says about the (delayed) transfer and loss, Im mindful that the 
relevant investments were transferred in-specie, and those that couldnt be through 
no fault of AJB  were in due course converted and then transferred at a later date.
In this instance, and on balance, I dont think theres any issue in referring to the 
different asset classes simply as investments  Im aware that Mr F and the business 
are very familiar with the facts of this case.
I note that the cash was transferred in due course, this usually happens when the 
other investments have been transferred in-specie and is usually done so that any 
outstanding fees can be settled. So, I dont think theres an issue with this.
I note Mr Fs dissatisfaction with the investigators chronology, but it is only a general 
summary, and theres no obligation to detail Mr Fs dealings with the business.
Despite what AJB says, Im persuaded there were some delays/issues which werent 
necessarily addressed by the compensation payment.
A business is to some extent obliged to mitigate delays perpetrated by third parties, 
but only if it reasonably can. It cant be blamed for not making right errors by other 
businesses if its incapable of doing so.
In this instance Im satisfied that Mr F remained invested in the markets and therefore 
is unlikely to have suffered the losses claimed. Despite any changes to the value of 
his investments, the business wouldnt be responsible because it cant predict or 
control the financial markets  upon which his investments are dependent  so it isnt 
responsible for any issues suffered as a result.
On balance, Im also satisfied that Mr F had the opportunity to trade if thats what he 
wanted to do. I appreciate trading over the phone probably isnt the same as trading 
online in the way he mightve been used to, but it was nevertheless an opportunity to 
trade if he was keen to do so  on balance it would seem he wasnt.
Im not suggesting that by trading over the phone there might not have been an 
impact on the transfer process and timing, but the opportunity still meant that Mr F 
could trade if he was keen to do so  and him not doing so doesnt mean that AJB is 
responsible.
Notwithstanding Mr Fs comments regarding The Individual Savings Account 
Regulation 1998 (ISA Regulations), in my opinion a business cant reasonably be 
expected to complete a transfer within a set timeframe (as set by the rules) when 
there are third parties involved for which it has no responsibility and/or control.
In this case Im not considering whether a specific third-party was to blame for the 
delays, just that other parties were involved, and the business cant be held 
responsible for their actions.
This doesnt of course mean that AJB (like HL) doesnt then have to take reasonable 
steps to continue to try and complete the transfer within a reasonable amount of time, 
and/or overcome any errors if it can. But the business cant be blamed for the actions 
of third parties.
Like Mr F, it seems AJB (as the transferee) is also at the mercy of several parties 
including, the custodian, fund manager and transferor, which means through no fault 
of its own, it cant always achieve what it hopes to. Whether its an issue with one unit 
trust or several this is likely to impact the businesss ability to move things along. 
However, in line with what Ive mentioned above, I think AJB couldve done a better 
job detecting any errors (albeit by other parties) which I dont believe was fairly reflected in the redress payment initially by the business.
Many of the issues faced during the process probably couldnt have been identified 
and dealt with at the outset  such as some investments not settling or issues with 
classification, including to some extent (notwithstanding the information on its 
website), which class of investment could be accepted, which are supported by the 
new platform and so on, because Mr F clearly wanted to transfer his entire portfolio 
as per his instructions. These things are more often than not dealt with as and when 
they arise and arent always the fault of the parties.
Im mindful that this case involved investments that had to be converted, and 
reclassified, because they werent supported and therefore couldnt just be 
transferred without some change. On balance, AJB probably couldve been more 
efficient, and this isnt reflected in the redress offered.
Despite what Mr F says, my role isnt to make any legal determinations. Specific legal 
questions are to be determined by the courts. In this instance Im only considering 
whether or not the redress paid is fair and reasonable and on balance, for the 
reasons mentioned above and expanded upon below, I dont believe it is.
I dont think theres any dispute that AJB took roughly 30 days  between 26 April 
and 26 May 2021  to respond to the transferors list of assets. This undoubtedly 
wouldve added to the delays experienced, because these things tend to have a 
knock-on effect. Its also arguable that perhaps the business, in light of this error and 
delays, couldve been more proactive in chasing the business, including responding 
to the transfers revised list, and noticing that one of his holdings  L&Gs European 
index Trust hadnt been transferred.
Although AJB wasnt to blame for the lack of transfer, I agree it ought reasonably to 
have noticed sooner and so by failing to do so it in this instance it had probably 
contributed towards the overall delays. Thats partly why Ive awarded higher amount 
of redress.
I also note that AJB took several days to rectify an error  it had provided its incorrect 
re-registration details in its transfer request  which it had to query further to ensure 
that the funds could be transferred. Even if this hadnt been an issue, Id still award 
higher compensation.
I note that the above issues, individually as well as collectively, wouldve 
compounded the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr F. Im also aware of 
the time and effort put in by Mr F chasing AJB to not only move things along but also 
when things went wrong. So, its a combination of all of those factors why Ive 
decided to increase the compensation payment by another £100.
Whether or not Mr F wished to remain with the business is a matter for him  it might be 
useful to obtain financial advice if he hadnt moved his entire portfolio already. In the 
circumstances I cant order the business to dismiss any exit fees if Mr F decides to transfer 
his holdings to another provider. I dont think it would be proportionate, unless the business 
decides to do so of its own volition.
Im mindful that Mr F is unhappy about the way his complaint was handled by the business.
But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore isnt something that I can
consider.
Im mindful of Mr Fs comments about other ombudsman decisions. Whilst consistency is 
important, Im not bound by the decision of other ombudsman  its my role to decide a case
based on its individual merits of each case, and even the smallest change can mean a
difference in the outcome of a case.
I appreciate Mr F will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator, but I still havent given him what he wants. I realise my decision probably isntwhat he wants to hear.
Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything
other than pay Mr F a total of £250 - less the £50 already paid.
The above notwithstanding, Im unable to give him what he wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
AJB responded and accepted my provisional decision. It had no further points to make. 
Mr F also responded and said that he was pleased that Id upheld the complaint and 
awarded compensation. But, in summary he said that the compensation should be similar to 
the amount awarded to the transferor, as the parties were equally to blame for the delay. 
Mr F went on to explain why this was the case and why he thought I had got it wrong in 
respect of AJB. He doesnt think that his points have been properly taken into consideration, 
he also doesnt think AJB chased the transfer process as it shouldve done, and Ive been 
unduly persuaded by AJBs actions. 
The above notwithstanding, if I wasnt persuaded by his latest submissions in response to 
my provisional decision, he was content to accept my award of additional compensation on a 
faute de mieux basis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from Mr F, Im not persuaded to 
change my mind. My decision to uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the 
same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. In the circumstances I dont think its 
necessary to repeat Mr Fs latest submissions.    
In other words, on balance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, I still think that AJB should pay Mr F £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, less the £50 already paid. Ive seen nothing that persuades me to 
change my mind. 
On the face of the evidence, I also still dont think the additional £100 compensation offered 
by AJB (making a total of £150) is fair or reasonable in the circumstances.
Whilst I appreciate Mr F would like greater compensation, I dont think £250, taken in the
round, is unreasonable in the circumstances. Im aware that all of his issues one way or
another are related to investments that are the subject of this complaint, therefore I dont
think its necessary for me to breakdown the amount.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision above, I dealt with Mr Fs linked complaint against 
the transferor, which I didnt uphold, on the basis that the £350 compensation paid for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by delays and poor service (including some accounting 
irregularities) was broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, in the 
circumstances Im mindful that Mr F will receive a combined total of £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by the delays and poor service experienced during the 
transfer process.
The above notwithstanding, I appreciate Mr F will be thoroughly disappointed that despite his 
latest submissions Ive still not been persuaded to change my mind. In other words, Ive 
upheld the complaint but still havent given him what he wants, and that my decision isnt 
what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business 
to do anything other than pay him £250 compensation, less £50 already paid.  
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im still 
unable to give Mr F what he wants.
Putting things right
AJ Bell Securities Limited should pay Mr F £250 compensation, less the £50 already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
AJ Bell Securities Limited should pay Mr F compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman