DRN-2217111
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about advice they received in 2000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
to take out a Stocks and Shares ISA invested in the HSBC Balanced Fund. They complain 
that the investment posed too much risk for them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F met with a financial adviser in 2000. The adviser recommended they invest 
£7,280 from their joint savings into a Stocks and Shares ISA invested wholly in the HSBC 
Balanced Fund. They followed the advice and made the recommended investment. 
The investment was taken out in Mr Fs name.  In 2008 Mr F surrendered the ISA.
In 2018 a claims management company (CMC) made a complaint to HSBC on Mr Fs behalf. 
It said Mr F was advised to invest too much of his money and he didnt have a suitable cash 
reserve. The CMC also said Mr F was advised to take too much risk with his money and the 
fund recommended represented too much risk for an inexperienced investor.
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said Mr F had been advised to keep aside £5,000 as 
an emergency fund and he had been able to keep aside substantially more in cash savings. 
It noted Mr F had been prepared to invest for seven years into balanced risk investments 
and had kept the investment until 2008 without making withdrawals. HSBC said it was happy 
the investment met Mr Fs needs at the time.
Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator thought it should be 
upheld because he thought the investment posed too much risk for them taking into account 
their circumstances and lack of investment experience. He was satisfied the amount 
invested was suitable as Mr and Mrs F had remaining savings. 
The investigator noted HSBC hadnt been able to supply a fund fact sheet which he felt was 
understandable as the investment had been made about 20 years ago. But he considered 
the fund wouldve had a significant proportion in equities and, possibly overseas equities, 
introducing currency risk. He felt Mr and Mrs F should have invested at only a low level of 
risk.
The investigator said HSBC should compare the performance of the investment over the 
relevant period with a benchmark for a low risk investment. If there was a loss it should pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs F. 
HSBC disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It pointed out that Mr F had more than 
seven years to retirement and an objective of capital growth. It also said that Mr and Mrs F 
had retained 66 percent of their savings on deposit and had disposable income of around 
£700. HSBC said they had the capacity to tolerate the additional volatility of balanced 
investments and replace any potential loses.
It acknowledged the fund wouldve had a significant equity content but said the fund was not 
exclusively equity based. HSBC said even if this was a relatively high proportion, considering 
the amount invested, the equity exposure wouldnt have been inappropriate for their 
circumstances.
HSBC also said that there shouldnt be a blanket approach to consumers with no experience 
by saying they shouldnt take out balanced investments. It said those investments werent 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs F as they had invested a relatively low proportion of their savings, 
had a reasonable investment horizon and a healthy disposable income which gave them 
capacity to accept the risk.
As no agreement could be reached Mr and Mrs Fs complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the investment was taken out in Mr Fs name it was funded from joint savings, so 
the complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F met with an adviser in 2000. A fact find was completed which recorded their 
financial circumstances. They were both working earning £15,000 and £6,780 per annum 
respectively. Mr F also had a small pension income of around £4,000. They were in their late 
fifties and owned their home with a mortgage outstanding on it. All their savings were held in 
easy access or current accounts- so in a secure environment. They held no investments 
save for a mortgage endowment policy.
 
The adviser recorded both Mr and Mrs Fs attitude to risk as balanced. There is very little 
detail or explanation given as to why they were assessed with that attitude to risk. 
The fact find records their attitude as balanced and describes this as:
Moderate risk to capital but potentially better returns over medium to longer term.
It also says that Mr and Mrs F were prepared to leave the money invested for at least five 
years and that: 
We regard this investment as balanced and this matches your attitude to risk. 
The suitability letter says:
This will provide you with the opportunity to achieve the capital growth you require over the 
medium to long term.
After these investments have been placed your spread of investments will be 68% held in 
secure funds, 0% held in cautious funds and 32% held in balanced investment. 
Then:
As your savings and investment holdings did not match the spread we would normally 
recommend we agreed to proceed with the ISA investing in the balanced fund. 
I consider that Mr and Mrs F wanted to invest a lump sum from their savings with a view to 
achieving capital growth over the medium to long term. And I can see that Mr F remained 
invested in the stocks and shares ISA for eight years. The amount recommended by HSBC still left Mr and Mrs F with a sizeable proportion of their 
savings easily accessible and, as has been pointed out by HSBC, they had disposable 
income each month allowing them to replenish some of the savings over time. Although I 
think this would be limited in time by their impending retirement in around eight years. 
I also think Mr and Mrs F wanted to benefit from the tax efficiency of investing in an ISA 
which is referred to in the point of sale documentation.
However, I also must consider whether investing that £7,280 in the HSBC Balanced Fund 
posed more risk than Mr and Mrs F were willing or able to take.
I agree with HSBC that it shouldnt be assumed that a consumer without investment 
experience cant invest in a balanced investment, or as it was described in the fact find, in an 
investment with a moderate level of risk to capital. Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances, their 
objectives and the amount of money invested all need to be considered.
Unfortunately, there is limited information available in respect of the fund invested in. HSBC 
was unable to provide a fund fact sheet, which is not that surprising given the time that has 
passed. I agree with the investigator that the balanced fund is more likely than not to have 
been made up of a significant proportion of equities. And HSBC has also accepted that the 
fund would have in all likelihood contained a significant proportion of equities.
Whilst unfortunately we dont have all the details of the fund what I can see is that there were 
three levels of risk referred to in the suitability letter- secure, cautious and balanced. The 
recommendation was that the lump sum be invested wholly in the balanced category; which 
evidently was a higher risk than the cautious category. 
I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs F understood what the balanced level of risk entailed as 
they didnt have any real investment experience. And I cant see that the differences 
between the levels of risk were explained to them. 
I am satisfied Mr and Mrs F had a relatively large amount of disposable income 
proportionate to their earnings, which they could have used to replenish any lost savings. 
This seems to be mainly because their recorded expenditure was fairly modest. But I note 
nothing was included in that expenditure for savings, or contributions towards retirement 
provision. I also note they were still making regular monthly payments to their mortgage and 
a loan, so they had some outstanding liabilities. 
I also take into account that Mr and Mrs F werent that many years away from retirement and 
the amount invested was more than Mrs F earnt in a whole year and a sizeable chunk of    
Mr Fs annual income. So, while I consider they were looking for capital growth I think this 
amount of savings would have been very significant for them. Overall, I dont consider they 
wanted to take more than a low level of risk with this lump sum.
So, I dont think the investment recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs F taking into 
account their circumstances and objectives.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs F as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice. I take the view that Mr and Mrs F would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs F's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
What should HSBC do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs F fairly, HSBC must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
HSBC should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
Stocks and 
Shares ISA surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per year 
on any loss from 
the end date to the 
date of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, HSBC should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
HSBC totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs F wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 

I consider that Mr and Mrs F's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs F into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr and Mrs F would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate bond 
and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs F could have obtained 
from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs F in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman