DRN-4135966
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
handled a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their property from a fire to 
the vehicle of a third party.
References to LV include their agents who handle claims.
This decision covers the issues raised in Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint to LV and LVs final 
response issued in October 2022.
What happened
In June 2022 a third party visited Mr S and Mrs S, parking their vehicle on the driveway next 
to the property. Shortly after, the vehicle caught fire and caused damage to the driveway and 
the property (windows, guttering and fascia boards, garage door and electrics). The fire and 
rescue service put out the fire and checked the property to ensure no risk of a further fire.
Mr S and Mrs S contacted LV to report the fire and the damage, and to provide details of the 
vehicle insurer. LV appointed a contractor (H) to assess the damage and carry out repairs. 
The repairs started, but Mr S and Mrs S werent happy at the pace of the work and chased 
LV several times. They said they were contacted by H in August 2022 and told the whole 
driveway would be replaced and the work would begin in four to five weeks. However, a few 
days later, they were contacted again by H and told LV wouldnt replace the whole driveway 
(which was block paved), only the part of it damaged by the fire. The rest of the driveway 
would be cleaned so it more closely matched the replaced section.
Unhappy at the delays in repairs being completed, and that LV wouldnt replace the whole 
driveway, Mr S and Mrs S complained. They were also concerned their premium would 
increase at the subsequent renewal of the policy (February 2023). 
In their final response issued in October 2022, LV confirmed theyd replace the damaged 
section of the driveway and clean the remainder to blend in the old and new paving. They 
said this was in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. On the potential 
increase in premium, LV noted theyd previously told Mr S and Mrs S that as they were 
making a claim under their policy, their premium could be impacted. But they would be 
looking to recover the costs of settling the claim from the third partys vehicle insurers and  
if successful in fully recovering the costs  the excess under the policy would be reimbursed 
to Mr S and Mrs S. As the policy renewal date was February 2023, LV couldnt say whether 
the premium would be affected until the renewal documents were issued  but said they 
would be happy to discuss the matter nearer the time.
Mr S and Mrs S then complained to this service (February 2023). Theyd been affected 
financially by having to pay the excess due under the policy and when they received their 
renewal notice their premium had increased because theyd made a claim. LV couldnt say 
whether the premium would be reduced once the claim had been completed. Theyd found 
the fire very stressful as well as what had happened subsequently, through having to chase 
H and LV to get the repair work completed. They were also unhappy that a full structural 
survey of their property hadnt been carried out, to determine whether there had been any 
other heat damage to their property. They wanted all the repairs to be completed and the 
whole driveway replaced (not just the affected part).
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. They thought LVs decision to replace only the 
damaged section and clean the remaining section was fair and reasonable. To replace the 
whole driveway would constitute betterment (putting Mr S and Mrs S in a better position than 
that prior to the incident). A structural survey of the property wasnt carried out following the 
fire as the damage was held to be cosmetic to the exterior of the property, and there wasnt 
any evidence to show the structure of the property had been impacted. On the issue of 
increased premiums, this was common where a claim had been made (even if full recovery 
of costs was subsequently achieved). But they thought the service received by Mr S and Mrs 
S could have been better, so they should receive £100 compensation.
 
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said it was LVs responsibility to arrange a structural survey of 
their property (not theirs). The assessment by H only involved a visual inspection and 
photographs, which wouldnt have detected any internal damage to the structure of the 
property. Theyd been advised by the fire and rescue service that a full inspection of the 
property should be carried out to check the integrity of the structure. Mr S and Mrs S 
considered this advice indicated the structure had been affected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether LV have acted fairly towards Mr S and Mrs S.
There are several issues in Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint, which Ill consider in turn. First, 
whether LV acted fairly in saying theyd only replace the damaged section of driveway and 
clean the remaining section to reduce the difference in appearance between the new and old 
sections. Second, whether LV should carry out a full structural survey of the property to 
establish whether the fire caused any internal (structural) damage. Third, the time taken to 
assess and carry out repair work and the communication between LV and Mr S and Mrs S. 
Finally, the issue of future premiums and the impact of Mr S and Mrs S making a claim.
On the first issue, Mr S and Mrs S say they were told (by H) that the whole driveway would 
be replaced. But then LV said theyd only replace the damaged section. Mr S and Mrs S say 
the whole driveway should be replaced  but LV say the terms of the policy only require 
replacement of the damaged section, and their offer to clean the remaining section to reduce 
the difference in appearance between the new and old sections is reasonable.
In considering this issue, Ive first looked at what the policy says about how damage will be 
treated. The policy states that where there is loss or damage to property (which would 
include the driveway) the policy will replace what has been lost or damaged. I think this 
makes it clear that the policy wont replace what hasnt been lost or damaged. In the 
circumstances of this case, it appears the fire only affected a section of the driveway  not 
the whole driveway. And Hs view is that a patch repair would be possible (by replacing the 
damaged blocks). Given the age of the driveway and the impact of natural weathering over 
time, replacement blocks would be of a different appearance to the existing (undamaged) 
blocks. Aesthetically this would mean a difference in appearance. LV have offered to clean 
the rest of the driveway to reduce the difference in appearance. I think thats reasonable.
Ive also considered that to replace the whole driveway would involve a significant degree of 
betterment. That is, Mr S and Mrs S would be put in a better position than before the fire (theyd have a complete, new driveway). Its a generally established principle of insurance 
that a policyholder is put in the same position they were before an incident, damage or loss  
not a better position.
Taking these points into account, Ive concluded LV have acted fairly in offering to replace 
the section of driveway damaged in the fire and to clean the remaining part of the drive to 
reduce the difference in appearance between the old and new sections.
On the second issue, whether LV should have carried out (should carry out) a full structural 
survey of the property to establish whether the fire caused any internal structural damage, 
Ive considered the views of Mr S and Mrs S and of LV, together with those of H (who 
inspected the property and assessed the damage) and those of the fire and rescue service. 
Mr S and Mrs S refer to the latter, who advise a full inspection of the property should be 
carried out to check the integrity of the structure. Hs assessment doesnt indicate the need 
for this, as theyve carried out a visual inspection of the damage and the repair work needed 
to reinstate the property. 
Ive considered both views carefully, but Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to 
require LV to carry out a full structural survey of the type advised by the fire and rescue 
service. H have inspected the property and concluded on the extent of the damage and work 
required to reinstate the property. While the fire and rescue service have provided advice, it 
doesnt mean they think there is structural damage (Ive also not seen anything to indicate 
there has been structural damage). And as advice, its a decision for LV as to whether they 
think a survey is required, based on Hs inspection and assessment. Its not something I can 
require them to do.
On the third issue, the time taken to assess and carry out repair work and communication 
between LV and Mr S and Mrs S, Ive looked at the sequence of events and what happened. 
Its clear Mr S and Mrs S have had to chase H and LV about progress with the claim and the 
repair work. Ive also considered their being initially told (by H) the whole driveway would be 
replaced  only for LV to then say only the damaged section would be replaced. While Ive 
concluded that decision is fair and reasonable, I think there would have been some loss of 
expectation by Mr S and Mrs S from being given contradictory information. Taking account of 
the circumstances of the case (to the point of LVs final response) I think £100 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience would be fair.
Finally, theres the issue of future premiums and the impact of Mr S and Mrs S making a 
claim. Mr S and Mrs S think its unfair that they may have to pay a higher premium (and I 
understand that the subsequent renewal notice indicates this to be the case). LV say a claim 
being made would still need to be recorded (even if they are subsequently able to make a 
full recovery of the cost of settling the claim from the third partys vehicle insurers}. In that 
situation, they would refund the policy excess payable by Mr S and Mrs S. LV also say Mr S 
and Mrs S were made aware of the potential impact on their future premium when they 
made their claim.
Considering this issue, looking at the case notes from LV, they do indicate Mr S and Mrs S 
were told about the potential impact on their premium of making a claim, even if the costs of 
that claim were subsequently recovered by LV from the third partys insurers. I understand 
why Mr S and Mrs S feel its unfair their premium could be (has been) affected by something 
for which they werent responsible and was outside their control, but I cant require LV to 
disregard the impact of a claim being made under the policy. The nature of insurance is that 
where a claim is made  even if the costs may be recovered  it will be recorded and 
considered when insurers assess risk and consequently the level of premiums. So, I cant 
conclude LV have acted unfairly. And as with any other annual insurance policy, its open to Mr S and Mrs S to decide whether to accept the terms offered at policy renewal (including 
the premium to be paid).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint in 
part. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr S and Mrs S £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell them Mr S and Mrs S accept my final decision. If they pay later 
than this they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision 
to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman