DRN-3691987
The complaint
Mr C1 and Mr C2 are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros 
y Reaseguros, S.A. declined a claim Mr C1 made on a travel insurance policy which he was 
named as the lead insured. 
What happened
Mr C1 and Mr C2 had the benefit of an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
Mapfre (the policy), covering the period mid-January 2020 and mid-January 2021. Gadgets 
and valuables extended cover had also been purchased. 
Mr C1 travelled abroad at the end of September 2020, to a country Ill refer to as S. The trip 
was booked earlier that month. Whilst away, Mr C1 says his bag and video camera were 
lost/stolen. He made a claim under the policy. 
Mapfre declined the claim because, at the time the trip to S had been booked, the Foreign 
Commonwealth and Developmental Office (FCDO) had been advising against all but 
essential travel to S. Mr C1 was very unhappy with the decision made by Mapfre so raised a 
complaint. He said his travel to S was essential. Mapfre didnt uphold his complaint so Mr C1 
referred a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and concluded that Mapfre had acted fairly and 
reasonably by declining the claim. Mr C1 disagreed. So, this complaint has been passed to 
me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out below.
The policy terms do provide cover for gadgets and valuables lost or stolen abroad. 
However, the policy also includes general exclusions at pages 16  18 of the policy 
terms. Clause 18 says Mapfre wont cover: any claim that results from you travelling 
to a country or an area where the (FCDO) Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office advice at the time that you purchase your policy or book an individual trip, 
whichever is the latter, is not to travel to this country or area. 
Im satisfied that the FCDO was advising against all but essential travel to S at the 
time Mr C1 booked the trip in September 2020 due to increase cases of Covid-19. 
Mr C1 may have considered his travel abroad to be essential  and I make no finding 
on whether it was. The policy is clear that he wasnt covered if at the time of booking 
the trip the FCDO had advised not to travel to that area or country. So, even if Mr 
C1s travel was essential, any claims arising from his trip to S arent covered. That 
doesnt mean that his policy is void as Mr C1 has suggested; its just that Mapfre had 
taken the decision when underwriting this policy that it wouldnt be taking the risk  or 
covering any claims made  in those circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C1 and Mr C2 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman