DRN-3826130
The complaint
Miss K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) applied 
excessive charges and fees unfairly to her account before selling the debt to a third party. 
She complains that any refunds Barclaycard made in 2021 to the third party were unfair 
because the refund of excessive charges and fees should be much higher. 
What happened
Miss K told us Barclaycard had been adding unfair bank charges and fees to her 
Barclaycard account since she opened the account in 2004. She wanted all charges and 
fees refunded from 2004 to date. Our investigator explained that we could not investigate the 
account history from 2004 as her complaint was made too late and this was accepted by 
both parties. With this in mind, I wont be commenting on this aspect further.
 
So in this decision, I will only be looking at Miss Ks complaint about whether the account 
review and refund of charges and fees in 2021 were fairly and correctly applied.
Miss K said she became aware in January 2022 that Barclaycard were going through 
customers accounts to make remediation payments where they had been affected by 
systemic issues in the banks systems and it had calculated what needs to be done to put 
things right.
As part of the remediation process, Miss K said Barclaycard recently issued a refund to the 
third party which bought her debt; she feels the calculations were wrong and she wants 
Barclaycard to look at them again. She says the refund should be higher to reduce the debt 
as the added charges were made in error, were excessive and unlawful.
Barclaycard said it last applied interest to Miss Ks account in March 2013 and then it sold 
the debt to a third party in November 2013. Barclaycard confirmed it had conducted 
remediation procedures to Miss Ks account and it refunded £353.94 in December 2021 for 
charges made in error on her repayment plan and it showed the third party had received it.
Barclaycard also said it refunded a further sum in June 2022 for charges made in error on 
Miss Ks informal arrangement Barclaycard said it applied the charges and refunds fairly, so 
it rejected Miss Ks complaint.
Our investigator also rejected the complaint and agreed Barclaycard had acted fairly when it 
reviewed how charges, fees and interest had been applied to Miss Ks account and when it 
made the refund. Miss K disagreed with our investigators view and asked for the matter to 
be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I am going to agree with our investigator that Barclaycard should not be 
asked to do anything more, so I am not going to uphold the complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result for Miss K, so I will explain my reasons.
Barclaycard said they reviewed Miss Ks account because it had concluded it had done 
something wrong and needed to put it right. After the review of customers on repayment 
plans was carried out, it said it made a refund of £353.94 in December 2021 to the third 
party now dealing with Miss Ks debt. It showed that this refund had been receipted by the 
third party and Miss K has mentioned it in her complaint to us, so I can safely assume she is 
aware of it.
Barclaycard also said it refunded £413.78 in June 2022 for charges made in error on Miss 
Ks informal arrangement. If Miss K cannot see the payment has reduced her debt, she 
should contact the third party that has that debt now.  But overall, I have not seen any 
evidence to show that these reviews were unfair to her or that the payments have been 
incorrectly calculated. So I dont think Barclaycard has done anything wrong here. 
Miss K also referred to a new law which she says stops banks from adding any charges or 
fees to credit cards and she produced an extract from an article published by a national 
advice charity. So Miss K concludes any bank charges after 2018 are unlawful. I have 
looked at this very carefully. I think the advice charity is referring to The Consumer Rights 
(Payment Surcharges) Regulations 2012, which came into force in 2018. However, this new 
regulation stops traders (not banks or building societies, etc.) from adding any extra charges 
just because the customer used a particular method of payment, for example, a credit card. 
So I will not be applying this regulation because I dont think its relevant to Miss Ks 
complaint. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Barclaycard has done anything wrong here, so 
Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman