DRN-3302801
The complaint
Mr A complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) hasnt paid a fair 
settlement for his claim for damage to his car caused by a third-party.
What happened
On 1 June 2021 Mr A was involved in a car accident. A third-party driver collided with his car 
when he was performing a manoeuvre. 
Mr A reported the incident to Haven, his commercial motor insurance provider, on 
4 June 2021. As Mr A claimed the accident wasnt his fault, Haven referred him to a credit 
hire company  with his agreement. The credit hire company would provide recovery, 
storage and a courtesy car at no cost to Mr A, because it would attempt to recover its outlay 
from the at fault third-party. Pursuing his claim through the credit hire company would also 
mean that Mr A wouldnt need to pay his policy excess, because he wasnt making a claim 
through his policy with Haven.
Mr A was unhappy with the service provided by the credit hire company, and the third-party 
disputed liability. So, on 14 June 2021, Haven took over handling of the claim under Mr As 
policy.  
Mr As car was deemed beyond economical repair. Several offers were made by Haven to 
settle the claim. The final offer was £10,000 for the total loss value of the vehicle, prior to 
deductions for the remaining policy premiums, storage costs and the policy excess  leaving 
a final figure of £7,683.75.
Mr A wasnt happy with the valuations placed on the car. He said he bought it a few months 
prior to the accident for over £13,000. He said the prices available to him in the market are 
higher than the £10,000 calculated and offered by Haven. He also wasnt happy that Haven 
sought to deduct his remaining policy premiums, storage costs and the policy excess. 
Unhappy with Havens handling of his claim and complaint, Mr A approached our service.
Our investigator said Havens position on the claim had changed since Mr A first referred his 
complaint to our service. She said Haven had agreed to cover the storage costs, plus 
interest and to refund the excess fee once it recovered the costs from the third party. She 
also said the premiums had now been paid in full, so they werent deducted from the 
settlement either. 
Our investigator didnt agree that Haven had fairly calculated the pre-accident market value 
of Mr As car, because it had only relied on one of the recognised industry trade guides, 
rather than several. But having checked the remainder of the guides, she agreed that the 
value calculated by Haven was in line with what she calculated market value to be. She also 
pointed out that Mr As policy limit was £10,000, in any event.
In addition to refunding the storage charges, plus interest, and the excess fee (once its costs 
were recovered) our investigator recommended that Haven should pay Mr A £250 
compensation. This was to recognise that it took too long to reach a fair valuation and 
because some of the communication during the claim could have been clearer, and Mr As 
expectations better managed  particularly around the policy limit.
Haven accepted our investigators recommendations, but Mr A didn't. So, because no 
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for the following 
reasons.
Credit hire company
Mr A initially raised concerns about delays caused by the credit hire company. But in this 
decision, Im only considering the actions of Haven. Mr A hasnt complained about Havens 
actions in referring him to the credit hire company, only about delays caused by the credit 
hire company, prior to Haven taking over handling of his claim. So, Haven would not be 
responsible for these delays. Should Mr A wish to pursue a complaint about the credit hire 
companys handling of his claim, he should raise the complaint with that company in the first 
instance.
Storage costs
Mr As initial complaint included that he felt it was unfair for Haven to charge him for the 
storage of his car. Haven explained it intended to cover any storage costs from the point 
Mr A decided to pursue the claim under his policy. But it had assumed the credit hire 
company would cover the initial storage costs, which were incurred before a claim under the 
policy was made. As this didnt happen, Haven agreed to reimburse Mr A the £714 storage 
charges which were deducted from his settlement, and to pay 8% simple interest on this 
amount from the date Mr A was out of pocket until the date of settlement. I think this is fair 
and reasonable.
Excess fee
Mr A also complained that he was given inconsistent advice about whether his excess was 
payable. He was initially told it wouldnt be, which was correct as he was initially pursuing his 
claim outside the terms of his policy. But when he decided to pursue the claim through his 
policy, Haven said his excess would be payable. 
Haven was correct to advise this, and this is explained in the terms and conditions of Mr As 
policy: 
Your Excess
11.If Your Car is lost, stolen or damaged You are responsible for paying the 
Excess(es) shown in the Schedule no matter how the loss or damage happened.However, Haven has now agreed to refund Mr As excess once it completes recovery of its 
costs from the third-party. This is more than I would have recommended it should do, had it 
not made an offer. So, I dont think Haven needs to do anything more than it has offered to 
do, with respect to the excess.
Outstanding premiums
Mr A was also unhappy that Haven sought to deduct his remaining policy premiums from the 
claim settlement. Again, I think Haven was correct to do this, based on the terms and 
conditions of the policy, which explain: 
If We make settlement of the Market Value of Your Car or the Limit of Coverage in 
settlement of a claim under sections B1 and / or B2: 
.
d)We will deduct any outstanding premiums from any settlement due.
But, given the time that passed before the settlement was paid to Mr A, his premiums were 
paid in full. So, no deduction from the settlement was ultimately made. 
Valuation
Mr As primary point of dissatisfaction relates to Havens valuation of his car.
I can appreciate that the loss of Mr As car will have been distressing. I can also understand 
Mr As disappointment, as he believes that he hasnt received a fair valuation. But I should 
explain that my role is not to value Mr As car. What I need to decide is whether Haven has 
settled his claim fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of his policy.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say that his car is insured for loss or damage to 
the car, during the period of coverage, up to the limit of coverage stated in the policy 
schedule.
The limit of coverage is defined as:
Limit(s) of Coverage
The value shown in the schedule.
Mr As policy goes on to explain what will happen if a car is deemed to be beyond economic 
repair:
If We consider Your Car is Beyond Economic Repair as a result of an accident or 
incident covered by this insurance, subject to clause 9 below We will provide the 
owner of Your Car with settlement of its Market Value up to the Limit of Coverage 
after deducting the Excess. You should be aware that We are entitled to provide 
settlement up to the Limit of Coverage after deducting the applicable Excess(es) in 
full and final settlement of Your claim for damage to Your Car, even if that value is 
under-stated.
Haven made several offers to Mr A of less than £10,000. These were based on an 
engineers report and a valuation captured from one of the recognised industry trade guides. 
However, it has now increased the valuation to £10,000  which is the value shown in Mr As 
policy schedule, and thus the limit of coverage of his policy. Mr A has provided several adverts showing cars of the same model and condition being 
advertised for a higher cost than the £10,000 valuation. But our service doesnt generally 
find second-hand car adverts persuasive when assessing the market value of a car. This is 
because the advertised price is what the seller would like to achieve and is often the starting 
point of a negotiation, as opposed to the actual sale value. And, in any event, Havens 
valuation is equal to the limit of coverage  which is the maximum amount it is liable for 
under the terms of Mr As policy. So, even if I thought the market value of Mr As car was 
higher, Id still think the settlement arrived at by Haven was fair and reasonable, taking into 
account the terms and conditions of his policy.
But, for completeness, our investigator obtained pre-accident valuations from the three 
recognised industry trade guides we typically use when assessing fair market value. These 
showed that the pre-accident market value of Mr As car was in line with the £10,000 policy 
limit anyway:
Glasss - £10,180
CAPS - £10,350
Cazana - £9,878
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Haven has reached a valuation which is 
in line with the terms and conditions of Mr As policy, and which is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Compensation 
A fair valuation has now been reached, and Haven has offered to cover the storage costs 
and to reimburse the excess fee. But having reviewed the claim history, I agree with our 
investigator that the valuation ought to have been reached sooner, and that better 
explanations should have been given to Mr A about the valuation and his policy limit.
Instead, Mr A was given numerous valuations and led to believe these were based solely on 
the market value of his car. His expectations could have been managed better with clearer 
explanations about the limits of his cover. Haven could also have reached the appropriate 
valuation sooner by referring to more than one of the industry trade guides.
As a result of these issues, Mr A has suffered some avoidable distress and inconvenience. I 
think Haven should pay him £250 to compensate him for the impact these issues have had 
on him.My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I uphold Mr A's complaint in part.
Haven Insurance Company Limited must:
Reimburse the £714 storage costs, plus 8%* simple interest from the date Mr A was 
out of pocket to the date of settlement  if it hasnt already done so.
Refund the policy excess fee, once the costs have been recovered from the third-
party, as it has already offered to do.
Pay Mr A £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
*If Haven Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman