DRN-4185076
The complaint
Miss A complains that Commsave Credit Union Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In April 2020 Miss A applied for a loan with Commsave. Commsave approved the application 
and gave Miss A a loan for £500.
In September 2020 Miss A applied for another loan. Commsave approved the application 
and gave Miss A a loan for £1000.
Miss A complained that Commsave lent to her irresponsibly. Commsave didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before lending to Miss A.
Miss A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They said that the checks completed before the first 
loan was approved showed that Miss A was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loan. 
The investigator also said that the second loan had been lent irresponsibly because there 
had been no significant and sustained improvement in Miss As financial circumstances 
since the borrowing in April 2020.
Commsave didnt agree. It said that although Miss A had some impairments on her credit 
report, she had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan repayments.
Commsave suggested that as a resolution it would uphold the complaint in relation to the 
first loan only.
Miss A didnt accept the resolution offered so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss As complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Commsave needed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that Miss A could sustainably repay what was being lent to her. Theres no 
set list of checks that a lender must complete. But lenders are required to have regard to 
things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayment and 
the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and 
proportionate.
Miss A provided details of her income and expenditure when she applied for the first loan. 
Commsave has said that it didnt think it was necessary to verify Miss As expenditure but 
said it carried out checks to ensure that the expenditure declared appeared reasonable.
Commsave carried out a credit check. This showed that Miss A had two credit accounts in 
arrears and registered as delinquent. She also had two telecommunications accounts in 
arrears.
The credit check also showed that Miss A had opened a credit facility 5 months prior to the 
Commsave loan application and had already fully utilised the credit limit. Miss A had also 
entered into a hire purchase agreement 2 months prior to the Commsave loan application.
Given the relatively low amount of the loan, I think the checks carried out by Commsave 
were reasonable and proportionate. However, I dont think the lending decision was fair. I 
say this because Miss A was using around 34% of her income to make debt repayments 
(before taking account of the Commsave loan). This is a significant debt to income ratio. 
Experience tells us that consumers who use more than 25% of their income to repay debt 
are likely to struggle to repay debt in the future. 
Further, the information from the credit check shows that Miss A had issues making 
payments across at least 4 credit accounts. As against this background it appears that Miss 
A was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay any further borrowing.
Further, the additional borrowing taken out by Miss A in the months prior to this loan and he 
full utilisation of the credit facility in a short period of time suggest that Miss A was struggling 
financially.
In these circumstances, I think the lending decision to approve the first loan was unfair.
Ive looked at the information obtained from the checks carried out by Commsave before the 
second loan was approved. The credit checks showed that Miss A had a third delinquent 
account by this time and that her bank account was in unauthorised overdraft. There was 
also a credit card account subject to a payment arrangement. The information shows that 
Miss As financial circumstances had not significantly improved since the first loan.
Ive also reviewed Miss As bank statements from around this time. These show that her 
income was significantly lower than the figure used by Commsave in its affordability 
assessment. They also shows that the account was operating in deficit, so Miss A didnt 
have sufficient disposable income to afford any further borrowing.
For these reasons I dont think the second lending decision was fair.
Putting things right
Loan 1 and Loan 2
Commsave must:
Refund all interest and charges paid by Miss A
If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the capital balance by the amount above
If an outstanding balance remains, ensure that this isnt subject to any historic or future 
interest or charges
If there is a positive balance, give this back to Miss A along with simple interest of 8% per 
year*
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss As cred file in relation to the loans once the outstanding balance is cleared
*HMRC require Commserve to take off tax from any award of interest. Commsave must give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Commsave Credit Union Limited must take the steps Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman