DRN-3879637
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service hes received from Rathbone Investment Management 
Limited (RIML). Hes unhappy with how theyve managed his investment portfolio and thinks 
they failed to gain his agreement on several areas regarding how it should be run.
What happened
Mr B was previously the beneficiary of a trust managed by RIML. In 2018 the trustees of the 
trust made the decision to move Mr Bs funds out of the trust and into a personal account 
which was to be managed on a discretionary basis by RIML. 
The funds were transferred in January 2020 and the discretionary manager started to 
rebalance the account. In March 2020 Mr B complained to RIML and said, in summary, that 
theyd failed to advise him that the transfer had taken place until hed spoken to them in 
March 2020. Theyd converted his portfolio from risk level three to level four against his 
wishes and had claimed to have sent him a welcome letter outlining their plans, but it was 
never received.
He was unhappy that RIML had made significant changes to the portfolio without his 
knowledge or consent including selling £250,000 of UK treasury bonds. Hed had to reverse 
the trades RIML made which led to a loss and had lost the opportunity to re-invest during the 
market falls and rises in 2020.
RIML looked into the concerns that had been raised but didnt uphold the complaint. They 
said, in summary:
Mr Bs portfolio was opened in May 2019 in order to receive the assets from the trust 
and was set up to be managed on a discretionary basis to a risk level four. Theyd 
been given authority when Mr B signed the Client Agreement and Outgoing Profile 
document (CAP) in April 2019 to manage the assets on his behalf. 
They couldnt evidence that Mr B was notified of the completion of transfer until 12 
March, but they believed there was sufficient evidence for Mr B to have known that 
the transfer was underway. They acknowledge that it would have been courteous to 
have notified Mr B sooner, but from a contractual perspective, they hadnt done 
anything wrong. 
They thought that given the low return on the UK Treasury bonds, a holding of 33% 
of the portfolio would adversely affect the potential rate of return and represented 
significant concentration risk. Mr B hadnt told them he wanted to ringfence the 
bonds, so it wasnt inappropriate to have sold them.
They accepted that Mr B had made a loss when he reversed the trades theyd made. 
But the investments hadnt been in place for long enough to realise their potential, so 
they didnt think theyd acted inappropriately.
Mr B had noted on the CAP to limit commodities outside of FTSE 100 or equivalent. 
But theyd interpreted this comment to be in reference to commodity stocks rather 
than physical commodities. Mr B had made a profit of £1,687 when the commodity 
holding was sold, so theyd concluded that he hadnt incurred any financial detriment 
as a result of their actions.
They didnt agree that Mr B had lost the opportunity to re-invest £250,000 into the 
market. Although Mr Bs complaint letter had said that hed wished to keep the 
£250,000 in UK Treasury stock, during a phone call in March 2020 Mr B had said that 
hed wished to keep the £250,000 in cash in order to protect his capital as he was 
planning on buying a house. Based on this, they couldnt uphold his claim for 
opportunity loss, given that his intention was for the funds to be retained and not to 
be invested. 
They recognised that their communication to Mr B could have better and offered him 
£250 in compensation.
Mr B didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns but 
didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Mr B had given RIML discretionary authority to 
make decisions on his portfolio in line with the agreed mandate and he hadnt seen anything 
to suggest theyd acted out of line. He hadnt seen any evidence that Mr B wanted to 
ringfence the UK Treasury holding so didnt think they acted incorrectly when they sold it. 
He'd reviewed the changes made to the portfolio and was satisfied that they aligned the 
portfolio to meet Mr Bs objectives. He was also satisfied RIML had reasonably assessed Mr 
Bs circumstances and objectives. He noted that Mr Bs father was given authority to act on 
his behalf and to make decisions, and it was his decision to keep the portfolio aligned to a 
risk level four as it had been when it was held in the trust. The investigator thought that this 
level of risk was suitable as it was in line with Mr Bs investment objectives. 
Mr B didnt agree, he disagreed with the investigators implication that because RIML sent 
the welcome letter, it amounted to his acceptance of the terms. He noted that it was well 
established in case law that silence doesnt constitute acceptance.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He agreed that he didn't think a 
welcome letter on its own was enough for RIML to have relied on as acceptance of the 
terms. But he thought that the CAP which Mr B had signed and dated in April 2019 was. 
Within this document, Mr B had confirmed his investment objective and risk profile and 
included a number of ethical and exposure-based restrictions. 
By signing the CAP, Mr B had given RIML authority to manage the portfolio in line with a 
discretionary mandate. The welcome letter was a summary of the information within the CAP 
and didn't form part of the contractual pack and so wouldn't have need Mr Bs approval or 
acceptance.
The contractual pack contained RIML's terms of business. It stated within the pack that 'By 
signing the Client Agreement you are contractually bound by the terms and You agree to 
notify us of any material changes to information you have provided to us and agree to 
provide other information we reasonably request in order to comply with our obligations'. 
The investigator hadn't seen any evidence that Mr B had notified RIML of any changes to the 
investment mandate following the April 2019 CAP, so he didnt think RIML had acted in a 
way which was out of line with the investment mandate which had been agreed. 
Mr B didnt agree and made the following points:He pointed to RIMLs own terms and conditions. He thought they had broken several 
of the terms including not confirming an understanding of his needs, proposing a 
portfolio to him or agreeing a strategy. They also hadnt shared the results of the risk 
questionnaire, conducted a sense check or recommended a portfolio.
He didnt think that by signing the CAP, RIML had his authority to manage the 
portfolio until they had discussed a plan of action with him which was specifically 
stated in the CAP. 
His father didnt remember agreeing for the portfolio to be run at risk level four. If 
RIML insisted that he did then they needed to provide evidence to prove this. If it was 
during the meeting between his father and RIML in May 2018 then his father didnt 
have authority as the delegated authority form hadnt been signed yet. 
The change to risk level four from three was material but he thought the portfolio was 
actually being managed to level five or six which was reckless. He believed that 
before it had been transferred it was a risk level one or two. 
He didnt think that the UK Treasury bond holding represented concentration risk. 
This would only be the case if you believed that the UK Government would default on 
its debt. The bond was due to mature in 2023 which meant it had very low interest 
rate sensitivity and could easily have been held to maturity to negate that interest 
rate risk.
RIML had shown a disregard for his wishes by investing in commodities when hed 
specifically restricted any commodities outside of the FTSE 100 or equivalent.
The investigator didnt change his opinion. As theres been no agreement the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
But Id firstly like to acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
Mr B. I intend no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure him that Ive read and 
considered all his submissions. My findings will also only focus on what I consider to be the 
key aspects of the complaint and this reflects the informal nature of our service.
In order to come to my decision, Ive firstly considered RIMLs obligations to Mr B. A 
business has certain obligations under the regulators Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) 
rules and Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Broadly speaking, they must:
ensure that a recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client. And 
when doing so, they must obtain sufficient information about the client's knowledge, 
experience, financial situation and objectives
get enough information from the customer to be able to make sure the 
recommendation meets their objectives, theyre able to bear any related investment 
risk and they understand the risks involved. 
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client and pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.Ive considered what happened when Mr B opened his individual account. The terms of the 
agreement provide a good starting point as they set out how the account would be managed 
and the process that would be followed. RIMLs Understanding investment risk and return 
document sets out how they would design and manage a portfolio. 
It says that RIML would work with an investor to understand their individual circumstances 
and investment objectives and to agree the amount of risk that they should take. They would 
do this by assessing risk tolerance using a questionnaire. They would then share and 
discuss the results of the process and use all the results as the starting point for a discussion 
to reach agreement as to the most appropriate risk profile. Once they understood the 
investors situation and objectives then they would propose a tailored investment strategy 
and if the investor agreed with the proposal, then the portfolio would be constructed. 
Ive reviewed the evidence from the time. Ive seen that Mr B completed a risk questionnaire 
and the CAP document setting out his circumstances and objectives. The results were then 
used to devise a portfolio and RIML sent Mr B a welcome letter outlining their plans. The 
letter set out the investment objective and reasoning, portfolio risk level and reasoning, 
investment strategy and portfolio construction, any restrictions, tax considerations, 
performance benchmark and the charging rates. 
The letter was dated 21 May 2019, which was some time before the portfolio was transferred 
to Mr Bs individual account and any changes were made. It asked him to contact them if he 
had any questions, wished to discuss his portfolio or if anything was incorrect. Having 
considered the content of the letter, I think it is broadly consistent with what was set out in 
the Understanding risk and reward document. RIML considered Mr Bs circumstances, set 
out how they were going to manage his account and asked him to contact them if he wanted 
a discussion. 
I appreciate the points Mr B has made about silence not being used as acceptance on such 
an important matter, but I dont think that RIML needed him to confirm acceptance of their 
plans. I think that by setting out their proposal to him in writing and inviting him to contact 
them if there were any issues, they met their obligations. I accept it would have been better 
service if RIML had followed up their letter and gained verbal or written confirmation, but I 
dont think this was required under the terms of the arrangement they had with Mr B. For this 
reason I think the compensation theyve offered Mr B is fair and reasonable.  
The terms and conditions document set out that the information RIML gathered would be 
used to form the basis of the investment mandate. Any services would then take the 
mandate into account and the arrangement would start upon date of receipt of the completed 
CAP and crucially, RIML may begin to provide services from that date.
I think its important to note that RIML were providing Mr B with a discretionary service, this 
meant that they didnt need to gain his approval before making any trades. This point was 
explicitly mentioned in the terms and conditions which said In relation to executed 
transactions we are not required to provide you with a notice confirming the execution of 
each order on a transaction-by-transaction basis So, because they didnt receive any 
objections from Mr B, I think it was fair and reasonable for them to proceed with the proposal 
theyd set out in their letter.
I note the points Mr B has raised about not receiving the letter. I do not doubt his testimony 
but from what Ive seen, the letter was sent to the correct address. And I dont think its fair 
for me to find RIML at fault if something went wrong after the letter left its office. So, I dont 
think they acted improperly when they made changes to the portfolio after it had been 
transferred, including selling the UK Treasury bond. I think they needed to make changes to the portfolio to move it in line with the strategy they 
recommended and as Mr B hadnt put any restrictions on the bond, they were within their 
rights to sell it. RIML have accepted th at the y should have limited any commodity purchases, 
but as Mr B made a profit on the purcha se, I don t think he's been disadvantaged by their 
actions. 
Ive considered if it was appropriate fo r RIML to manage the portfolio at risk level four 
instead of three. The information from the time noted that Mr B was aged 31 and was 
employed part-time as a ................................... . He had annual employment income of 
£10,000 to £20,000 and annual investment income of £20,000 to £50,000. He h ad annual 
expenditure of £10,000 to £20,000 and had no liabilities. He h ad between six to ten years 
investment experience and had manage d his own investments in the past. He w as looking to 
invest for more than ten years and wanted to invest for his future financial well-being.
The welcome letter acknowledged that Mr B was risk level three but sai d that the portfolio 
was to be managed at risk level four. Given Mr Bs circumstances, investme nt experience, 
capacity for loss, investme nt horizon and objectives, I dont think risk level four was 
unsuitable for him. I thi nk he could afford to take a risk with the portfolio and wanted to invest 
over a timeframe where he could potentially recoup a ny losses. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said regarding the portfolio actually being ri sk level five or six. 
With this in mind, Ive looked at the makeup of his portfolio after the changes RIML had 
made. The documentation from RIML set out th at a ri sk level four portfolio would contain 
approximately:
10% liquidity holdings - defined as low credit risk assets which could be sold easily
such as cash, government bonds and high quality investment grade bonds
80% equity-type risk holdings - defined as equities and assets highly correlated to
equities such as high yielding corporate bonds, emerging market debt and property
equities
10% diversifier holdings - defined as assets with diversification potential due to low
correlation to equities such as precious metals, targeted return strategies and bricks
and mortar property funds.
From what Ive seen from the 16 March 2020 valuation, the portfolio was made up of:
9.92% liquidity holdings - 4.95% cash, 2.5% UK government bonds and 2.47% higher
quality investment grade bonds
80.62% equity holdings - 4.72% fixed income equity type risk, 50.45% UK equities,
14.14% US and Japanese equities, 7.06% developing markets equities, 2.39%
global equities and 1.88% private equity
9.46% diversifier holdings - 3.36% commodities, 3.79% actively managed strategies
and 2.31% actively managed fixed income
So, from what Ive seen, the asset split was in line with what RIML had said a risk level four 
portfolio would look like. Taking everything into account, I dont think I can fairly say that they 
misled Mr B or exposed him to more risk than was appropriate. 
Ive also thought about the points Mr B has raised about the compensation hes due. Hes 
said that if RIML had communicated with him before making the changes then they could 
have reached an agreement. In his opinion this agreement would either have been to have changed the portfolio so it more resilient to downturns or keep the UK Treasury bond and 
wait until a market crash and buy in the dip. 
Given that I think RIML communicated their plans to Mr B, I dont think I can fairly say that 
Mr B is due compensation for any theoretical returns he may have received. As Ive 
previously said, there were no restrictions placed on the bond and as discretionary manager, 
RIML were within their rights to sell it as part of rebalancing the portfolio. I also dont think 
they acted unfairly when they managed the portfolio at risk level four, so Im not persuaded 
that Mr B is due any compensation regarding potential trades he may have made.
So, in summary, I dont think that RIML have treated Mr B unfairly. They assessed his 
circumstances, communicated their proposal to him and their recommendation wasnt 
unsuitable for his circumstances at the time. I accept that he didnt receive their letter 
outlining their plans, but for the reasons Ive given, I dont think I can fairly blame them for 
that. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking 
Rathbone Investment Management Limited to pay Mr B any more compensation than what 
theyve already offered. They should pay him the £250 if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman