DRN-2559747
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made under 
their legal expenses insurance. All references to Great Lakes include its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took ownership of a recently converted farm building in 2015. They purchased 
it from the developer who carried out the conversion. They engaged an insurance broker, 
whos taken care of the necessary insurance arrangements for the property over the years.
The broker arranged policies with different insurers each year. The policy they took out in 
April 2018 included legal expenses cover underwritten by Great Lakes and continued until 
April 2020 (when the broker insured the property elsewhere). 
Shortly after moving in, Mr and Mrs W noticed water dripping into the property during periods 
of sustained rain. At first they thought it might be coming through the tiles or windows in the 
roof. They carried out checks during the winters of 2015 and 2016, but the problem seemed 
to resolve itself. The following year, however, the leak became worse. And nothing Mr and 
Mrs W tried seemed to provide a long-term fix. 
Mr and Mrs W considered making a claim under their home insurance but werent sure what 
exactly the problem was, or whether or not it would be covered. In 2018, builders employed 
by Mr and Mrs W began to question the pitch of the roof in relation to the tiles and windows. 
In 2019, an architect said that, in their view, the leak was due to defective workmanship. 
Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their legal expenses insurance for the cost of pursuing 
the developer. But Great Lakes declined it. At first it said it hadnt been notified of the claim 
within the time frames set out in the policy terms. It later retracted this, but said the claim 
wasnt covered because it concerned events, and a contract, which pre-dated the policy. 
Great Lakes accepted it handled the claim poorly and agreed to pay £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs W complained to us. They were unhappy their claim had been declined, with the 
customer service generally, and that Great Lakes hadnt made reasonable adjustments or 
arranged a meeting with a senior manager when asked. Our investigator thought the terms 
of the policy had been applied fairly. She agreed Great Lakes could have handled the claim 
more promptly, and adapted its communication with Mr and Mrs W, but she thought £100 
compensation reflected that. Mr and Mrs W disagreed, so I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The burden of proof initially rests with Mr and Mrs W to show they have a claim that arises 
from one of the events theyre covered for. Looking at the particulars of claim, I can see that, 
in the main, Mr and Mrs W have alleged that the developer is in breach of contract. 
Section 1 of their legal expenses cover is for domestic property protection. Under this 
section, they are covered for disputes arising from:
A contract in your name and relating to your home for construction, conversion or 
extension, sale or purchase including the leasehold and rental (but only as a tenant) 
provided that the insured person has entered into the agreement or alleged 
agreement after the commencement date of the first period of insurance. 
Period of insurance is defined in the terms to mean the period for which you have paid or 
agreed to pay, and we have agreed to accept a premium. This period will be the same as 
that of your household insurance policy with which this policy was issued. In this case, the 
period of insurance ran from April 2018 to April 2020.
The wording of this term means the policy only covers Mr and Mrs W for disputes about 
contracts that have been made during the period of insurance. As set out in the background, 
Mr and Mrs W didnt have legal expenses insurance until April 2018, when this policy began. 
Their contract with the developer was made in April 2015.
We think its fair for insurers to limit cover for contract disputes in this way, even where (as 
Mr and Mrs W allege) the dispute only came to light after the policy started, so long as the 
policy terms are sufficiently clear. In this case, Im satisfied they are. So, any allegations 
regarding the contract Mr and Mrs W made with the developer in 2015 arent covered. 
I can also see that Mr and Mrs W have alleged that the developer infringed upon rights owed 
to them under the Defective Premises Act 1972 (DFA) as persons who have acquired an 
interest in a property. The domestic property protection section of their policy also covers 
disputes arising out of infringement of your legal rights originating from the ownership of 
your home.
However, the policy also says that claims will only be accepted where the date of 
occurrence is within the period of insurance. Date of occurrence is defined in the terms to 
mean the date of one or more events arising at the same time or from the same cause, 
which give(s) rise to a claim under this insurance. 
Insurance is intended to cover unexpected events. So, its common for before the event 
legal expenses insurers to exclude disputes about things that happened, or started to 
happen, before cover started. After the event policies do exist, but are generally purchased 
once legal action has already started. 
The event which gave rise to the non-contractual aspect of the dispute was the developers 
alleged failure to carry out the conversion in accordance with the duty owed to Mr and Mrs W 
under the DFA. So, this aspect of the dispute isnt covered by the policy either (because the 
event which gave rise to it, the conversion work, ended in 2014, before cover started). 
Having said that, where someone genuinely couldnt have known that something could lead 
to a legal dispute when they took out a policy, or could reasonably have thought an existing 
dispute had concluded, we sometimes direct insurers to use the date of knowledge instead 
of the date of occurrence on a fair and reasonable basis. We wouldnt apply this approach to 
contract disputes where the policy only covers contracts made during the insured period. Ive considered whether those circumstances exist here. Mr and Mrs W say it isnt fair to 
expect a lay person to conclude a roof has been incorrectly installed because its leaking. 
Theyve highlighted that they only received the architects full report in October 2019. 
Theres no dispute though that the leak had already manifested itself when the policy began. 
In their written testimony, Mr and Mrs W said that they noticed it shortly after they moved in. 
They were the first owners of the property after the developer. They werent able to attribute 
the leak to a maintenance problem, or an event covered by their insurance, and have said it 
didnt always appear in the same place. They said it seemed to resolve itself at first, but that 
it recurred a year later, and was worse when it re-appeared again the year after that.
I recognise that the exact cause of the leak, and how it might be fixed, might have remained 
unclear as at April 2018 (although it isnt actually clear how early in 2018 builders started to 
question the roofs pitch). However, given the time it took for the leak to manifest itself after 
the sale of the property, the recency of the conversion work and the lack of any apparent 
maintenance issues or insured events which might explain it, I think Mr and Mrs W ought 
reasonably to have known by April 2018 that liability for it could rest with someone else, 
and that it could therefore lead to legal action. 
In terms of Great Lakes handling of the claim, I agree this fell short of what Id expect to see. 
It initially declined the claim for late notification, before deciding that was unfair. A number of 
different people were involved in the claim and clear updates werent always forthcoming, 
which meant Mr and Mrs W had to continually chase Great Lakes for a response. 
In particular, Mr W mentioned the impact that the leak generally, as well as Great Lakes 
involvement in it, was having on Mrs W, and asked it to make adjustments. This request 
went largely unacknowledged, as did Mr and Mrs Ws requests for a face to face meeting. 
The whole claims process took around three months from start to finish. 
Ultimately though, while Great Lakes could, and should, have handled the claim more 
promptly and fairly, this wouldnt have led to a different outcome in terms of the claim itself. 
I accept, however, that in that scenario, Mr and Mrs W would have been spared avoidable 
distress and inconvenience, so Im pleased to see that Great Lakes recognised this and 
made an award of £100 compensation. I find that to be a fair offer in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr and Mrs W the 
£100 compensation it originally offered (unless it has done so already, in which case it need 
take no further action). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman