DRN-3471506
The complaint
Miss S says she received poor service when she made a claim on the motor breakdown and 
recovery policy she had with AWP P&C SA.
What happened
Miss S called for assistance on 15 October 2020. Her car was recovered, and she spoke to 
the garage it was to be taken to. Miss S then returned to her home, hundreds of miles away. 
As she heard nothing further, after a few days Miss S called the garage and it told her the 
car had never been delivered to it. So she called AWP. It said it would investigate the matter.  
After a further wait, Miss S called the firm that was leasing the car to her (firm Z). It called 
AWP and on 28 October 2020 AWP told firm Z that the car was at the wrong garage.
 
The next day, the car was taken to garage A, an approved repairer. Garage A provided an 
estimate for the repairs, but Miss S thought it was too high. Garage A wouldnt deal with her 
directly, as AWP had told it Firm Z was the cars owner. On 11 November 2020 Miss S told 
Firm Z she wanted the car moved to her local garage. It liaised with garage A and then told 
Miss S that storage charges must be paid before the car could be collected. 
Miss S told AWP she wasnt happy with the handling of the recovery or garage A. AWP told 
her on 4 December 2020 that it had negotiated with garage A to reduce the storage charges, 
and that AWP would pay half the reduced bill of £680 to get the car released to Miss S. She 
declined the offer, as she believed AWP had caused the problems leading to the storage 
charges being made, so it was responsible for them. The charges continued to accrue for 
the next three months. At that point, garage A agreed to halve the sum due from Miss S. 
AWP said it would pay the £340 it had offered originally, which left Miss S with a bill of 
£1,595. Firm Z then paid that sum (which Miss S has to pay it back). She had to pay garage 
A £120 for the car to be released, plus £800 for the recovery of the car to her local garage. 
Miss S says the recovery charge is covered by her policy and that AWP should reimburse all 
the other sums shes had to pay. As she was without her car for five months, Miss S incurred  
travelling expenses on taxis, public transport and daily car rental. She also had to continue 
to pay for a parking permit, as well as for car insurance and leasing fees. Miss S says she 
faced a lot of stress, plus some loss of income, as a result of having to deal with the 
situation. She thinks AWP should compensate her for that, too.
   
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ss complaint. She thought AWP should pay the 
storage charges, as Miss S wasnt told about them at the start. She said AWP hadnt 
explained why it led the garage to believe that it should only deal with firm Z. The 
investigator also thought AWP should pay Miss Ss travel costs. She said it should have 
offered her a replacement car, and that the £800 recovery charge was covered by the policy 
too. She said garage A had charged Miss S £120 as it didnt recognise her as its customer, 
so AWP should refund that charge. The investigator also thought it should pay Miss S £500 
for distress and inconvenience. She said the cost of her insurance wasnt payable by AWP.
 
Miss S said the investigator hadnt mentioned the leasing charges shed paid. She said her 
annual insurance cover wasnt used for six months. The investigator said Miss Ss car had to 
be insured for perils such as theft whilst it wasnt in Miss Ss control. And she said the 
leasing charges werent incurred as a consequence of an error on AWPs part. Miss S then 
sent in evidence to show that the car should have been returned to firm Z in December 
2020. As she couldnt return it until April 2021, she said she had to pay firm Z for it until then.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows: 
Reimbursement under the policy 
The policy provides for the delivery of a consumers car to their home address  or the cost 
to the consumer of having the car taken there. So I think AWP should reimburse Miss S the 
£800 she paid for that. The only entitlement to a hire car under the policy is for up to two 
days, which Miss S appears to have had.
 
Storage charges
I think the major issue to consider here is for what period Miss S should be paid. Miss S had 
decided by early November 2020 that garage As estimate was too high, and that her car 
should go to her local garage. The storage charges arose because she wouldnt allow 
garage A to carry out repairs, yet the car remained on its premises. It was Miss Ss right to 
make that decision, but it wasnt AWPs fault that she wasnt happy with the estimate. 
Storage charges began to build up because garage A wouldnt deal with Miss S directly 
about moving the car. I think that was AWPs fault  and it seems Miss S wasnt told at the 
start that garage A would be charging for storage. But Miss Ss car only arrived at garage A 
at the end of October 2020  and firm Z had told her by 11 November 2020 that storage 
charges had started. 
Consumers have a duty to minimise costs. I think Miss S should have tried to have the car 
moved as soon as possible after that point. It seems she faced some awkwardness on 
garage As part  but by then, firm Z was liaising with it on her behalf. At the latest, I think it 
would have been reasonable for her to have accepted AWPs offer to pay half the reduced 
storage charges that had accrued by 4 December 2020, so the car could be released.  
Miss S says she didnt accept AWPs offer because she thought AWP should pay the whole 
amount. And she also thought it should have given her more than just a few hours to 
consider its offer. But Im not persuaded that AWP was responsible for more than a small 
amount of the storage charges up to 4 December 2020. The two-week delay in getting the 
car to garage A didnt cause the storage charges. I think AWPs responsibility for them is 
limited to the delay caused by garage A in not dealing directly with Miss S.I havent seen 
anything to show that she couldnt have had the car moved in mid-November 2020, and she 
could definitely have done so when AWP intervened on 4 December 2020. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for the offer to be made with only a limited time to respond. 
Miss S had decided weeks earlier that she wanted the repairs to be done elsewhere, and the 
car couldnt be moved until the storage charges were paid. So it isnt clear why she needed 
more time to consider the offer. AWP wanted the car moved quickly to avoid further charges, 
which I think was reasonable. Miss S could have accepted the offer and argued about it 
later. Had she done so, most of the storage charges would have been avoided. 
Other costsI think AWP should reimburse Miss S for the £120 release fee charged by garage A. The 
charge seems to have made due to the garage having been given the wrong information by 
AWP about dealing with Firm Z rather than Miss S.
Miss S thinks AWP should pay her for the motor insurance she paid on the car for the five 
months she didnt have the use of it. But in my opinion, the cost of Miss Ss insurance isnt 
an item AWP should contribute to at all. The car had to be insured, so that risks (such as 
theft) were covered for the whole year. I think it was Miss Ss responsibility to pay for that. 
Miss S also wants reimbursing for the payments she made to firm Z for leasing the car from 
it. But shed have had to pay firm Z whilst her car was being repaired, or for any other time 
she couldnt use it. The liability didnt arise as a consequence of AWPs error. Miss S 
entered into a rolling contract with firm Z in 2021, as the car should have been returned to it 
in December 2020. But had Miss S agreed to what I think was AWPs reasonable offer, it 
could have been returned on time. I dont think AWP is liable for any of the lease payments. 
Miss S says as the policy covered her for a hire car, she should be reimbursed for travelling 
expenses when she was without her own car or a hire car. But the policy cover for hire was 
only for two days, so any travel costs to be reimbursed must flow from AWPs errors. 
Its initial error delayed the repairs for two weeks initially, so I think AWP should pay travel 
expenses for that period.  Its second error led garage A to deal only with firm Z. That caused 
some further delay, but as far as I can see, it was no more than a week or two. It appears 
that Miss S could have had the car moved in mid-November 2020 or shortly afterwards. 
Repairs would then have commenced - and AWP wouldnt have been responsible for travel 
costs whilst repairs were done. AWP intervened on 4 December 2020, so I think it should 
only pay travel costs for Miss S until then, from November 2020. 
In terms of distress and inconvenience, Miss S was worried about where her car was in 
October 2020 and AWP didnt update her. The error in taking her car to the wrong garage 
caused a delay. AWP then gave garage A inaccurate information, which caused further 
delay. Miss S had to make more calls than should have been necessary - and she also had 
to contact firm Z to liaise on her behalf. I think AWPs offer of £340 towards the storage 
charges was an attempt on its part to put matters right. But taking everything into account, I 
think it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to pay Miss S compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I think £150 would be fair.
I asked the parties to respond to my provisional findings. AWP didnt respond. Miss S 
repeated many of the points shed already made, especially about the storage charges. She 
still thinks it was reasonable for her to refuse the offer made by AWP on 4 December 2021, 
as she doesnt believe she was responsible for any of the storage charges that had accrued 
by that point. She doesnt agree that she could have accepted the offer in order to move 
matters on - and challenged it later. And she thinks it makes no sense for me to hold AWP at 
fault, yet to say it should pay costs only up to 4 December 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think AWP made errors initially, and I agree that the 
details it passed on to garage A led to a delay and therefore storage charges. But I remain of 
the view that Miss S had a duty to minimise costs. She was told by firm Z on 11 November 
2020 that storage charges had accrued already. That was only a few days after the car had 
arrived at garage A, and after shed decided not to have the repairs done there. Firm Z had obtained a quote for moving her car at that point. Had it been moved then, the storage 
charges would have been minimal. Miss A chose to complain to AWP instead, to leave the 
car where it was and to allow the storage charges to continue.
I still think the offer AWP made on 4 December 2020 to pay half the storage charges was 
fair. An avoidable extra three weeks of them had accrued by that point. I think that was a 
direct result of Miss Ss decision not to act on or around 11 November 2020. Miss S seems 
to have declined AWPs offer purely on principle. In her recent comments, she said she put 
her faith in this service instead - and she thought wed agree that shed been treated 
unreasonably by AWP. I agree that it acted unreasonably in some respects. But that doesnt 
mean it was reasonable for Miss S to ignore the fact that huge expenses were mounting up. 
I still dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require AWP to pay for charges and costs 
that arose after it made the offer on 4 December 2020, as those extra expenses could have 
been avoided. But I think it should pay Miss S compensation for distress and inconvenience, 
and for the costs run up prior to that date that are payable under the policy - or were incurred 
as a result of its actions - plus interest. I know Miss S will be disappointed with my decision, 
but in my opinion, it sets out a reasonable way to deal with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AWP P&C SA to do the 
following (subject to receipts / evidence from Miss S):
Pay Miss S £800 for the relocation of her car and £120 for the release fee from 
garage A, plus her travel expenses for November 2020 and up to 4 December 2020
Add interest to the sums above, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
each expense to the date of settlement
Pay Miss S £150 for distress and inconvenience 
If AWP thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss S how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax 
deduction certificate if required, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman