DRN-3577728
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined their current account
application.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In June 2021 Mr and Mrs O applied for a current account with HSBC. In August 2021 
HSBC rejected Mr and Mrs Os application. Mr O has told us he contacted HSBC to try and 
get a better understanding of why their application had been turned down and offered to 
send evidence to show it shouldve been accepted. HSBC refused to consider the 
application further.
Mr O has told us HSBC failed to contact him to discuss the application as promised on 
several occasions. Mr and Mrs O complained and HSBC sent them a final response. HSBC 
said the application was declined because the credit score wasnt high enough. HSBC 
offered Mr and Mrs O £75 to apologise for delays in making contact and the service 
provided but didnt agree to approve the application.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr and Mrs Os complaint. In its file 
submission, HSBC told us the application was declined because the income declared 
didnt meet its minimum of £1,750, not Mr and Mrs Os credit score.
The investigator thought HSBC had dealt with Mr and Mrs Os complaint fairly and didnt 
ask it to do anything else. Mr O asked to appeal and said his income significantly exceeded 
HSBCs minimum requirement and he hadnt been asked to provide further evidence. Mr O 
said HSBC has asked for evidence of his wifes pension income and failed to call him back 
when he enquired about the application. As Mr and Mrs O asked to appeal, their complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached a different view concerning 
Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Based on the information provided so far, I dont agree that 
HSBC treated Mr and Mrs O fairly. I intend to uphold this complaint.
There are several issues at play in this case. But the main focus relates to whether 
HSBC acted fairly and in line with its lending criteria when it declined the application in 
question. HSBCs told us its lending criteria required a minimum deposit of £1,750 a 
month into the account and that Mr and Mrs Os income wasnt sufficient to reach that. 
But Mr and Mrs O have pointed out their income more that exceeds the minimum 
requirement.
I can see that HSBC had a private pension statement on file for Mr O that showed he 
receives a monthly income thats within £75 of its minimum requirement. Mr O has 
confirmed HSBC contacted him a couple of weeks after the application was made and 
asked for his wifes pension statement. Mr O has explained he called HSBC back on four 
separate occasions for clarification and was promised a call back. But no calls were made 
and HSBC simply went on to decline the application around six weeks later. HSBC cited Mr 
and Mrs Os credit score as the reason, but has since confirmed it was the income figure 
recorded.
I believe Mr O when he says he contacted HSBC. And its unclear why HSBC didnt ask 
Mr O for additional evidence of his income as well. The application Ive seen just contains 
an income figure of £40,000 for Mr O but HSBC only had evidence of part of that figure.
In my view, the application process wasnt handled in a clear and efficient way. Mr O 
doesnt appear to have been given clear updates or guidance concerning the status of his 
application. When he called to ask reasonable questions, no call backs were received. And 
when the application was finally declined Mr and Mrs O were told it was due to their credit 
score, which was simply not the case.
HSBCs case handler has told us it needed pension statements from Mrs O, in line with its 
lending criteria. While that may be the case, I think HSBC shouldve also gone back to Mr 
O to request further information and evidence to support the income figure he gave. And, if 
HSBC had called Mr O back during the application process, I think he wouldve been able 
to answer its questions and arrange for applicable evidence of his and Mrs Os income to 
be provided. The information Ive seen so far indicates the application wasnt handled with 
due care and or fairly declined.
I also think its fair to say that telling Mr and Mrs O their credit score was too low to qualify 
for the account has caused them a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience. The 
incorrect rationale was given in not one, but two complaint responses and only corrected 
when the matter was referred to us. Im satisfied that providing the wrong reason for 
declining the application over a period of several months caused Mr and Mrs O to 
unnecessarily review their finances in an attempt to overturn it. I think an award to reflect 
that, along with the distress caused, is a fair approach.
HSBC is free to set its lending criteria in line with its commercial judgment. But I havent 
been persuaded that the application was declined on the basis it was correctly assessed. 
Had HSBC handled the application better, I think it would most likely have answered the 
income queries.
I cant now force HSBC to open the Advance account Mr and Mrs O applied for. Ultimately, 
were now a year further along and any account HSBC opens will need to be subject to a 
new up to date application. I suspect Mr and Mrs O have already made alternative 
arrangements. But if they wish to apply again, their application will need to be assessed 
and will be subject to approval by HSBC.
As the information Ive seen indicates HSBC made mistakes and unfairly declined Mr and 
Mrs Os application I intend to uphold their complaint. In my view, a settlement of £200 to 
reflect the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs O is a fair way to 
resolve the complaint and recognises the impact of the issues raised. Based on the 
information Ive seen so far, Im going to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint on that basis.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I reached my final decision. Mr O responded and said that whilst he 
was pleased their complaint had been upheld he remained concerned at the way it had been investigated by HSBC. Mr O also said that HSBC had refused to engage in further dialog 
once it had responded to their complaint. 
HSBC confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr O for the detailed response hes given us. I want to explain that were a 
free, informal alternative to the courts. Where we find a business actions have led to a loss, 
we can award compensation to reflect that. And where we feel compensation should be 
awarded for the way a business has treated its customers, we can put a settlement in place 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
In Mr and Mrs Os case, Ive focused on what happened when they applied for a bank 
account with HSBC and whether they were treated fairly. In line with my provisional decision, 
my view is that HSBC made errors and caused an unreasonable level of distress and 
inconvenience for Mr and Mrs O. I felt an increased compensation payment of £200 more 
fairly reflected what happened. I still think thats a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Mr O has asked detailed questions about the way HSBC dealt with their complaint. Whilst I 
understand Mr Os concerns, the Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider complaint 
issues that are covered by the rules. I need to explain to Mr and Mrs O that complaint 
handling by a business in its own right isnt a regulated activity and theres only limited 
circumstances when we can consider it. The rules are set out in the Dispute Resolution 
Handbook which is issued by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
The issues Mr O has raised in response to my provisional decision relate directly to how 
HSBC investigated their complaint so dont come under the scope of the rules we operate 
under. Whilst I know Mr O wants a more detailed investigation into how their complaint was 
handled, its not something the rules allow us to deal with. That means I cant consider Mr 
and Mrs Os concerns relating to how HSBC dealt with their complaint.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs O Ive read and considered all the available information in this 
case. I still think Mr and Mrs Os application wasnt handled efficiently and that their 
complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
them a total of £200 (less any compensation already paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman