DRN-2533995
The complaint
Mr G complains that Creditsafe Business Solutions Limited trading as Creditsafe UK issued 
a credit reference to a third party that led to a business account being declined. 
What happened
Last year, Mr G applied to open a business account with a supplier. The supplier arranged 
for Creditsafe to provide a business credit reference for Mr Gs company. Creditsafe says it 
carried out an assessment and produced a credit report. The credit report was given to the 
third party and it declined the application. 
Mr G went on to complain to Creditsafe and said it had failed to fairly assess the companys 
situation when issuing its credit report to the supplier. Creditsafe didnt agree and said it had 
taken the available information into account when generating its credit report. Creditsafe 
agreed to delete the credit report from its systems. 
Mr G referred the complaint to this service and passed to an investigator. They thought 
Creditsafe had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr G didnt 
accept the investigators view and said Creditsafe had based its view of his business on 
incorrect information. Mr G also said no amendment to his credit report was made before it 
was deleted by Creditsafe. As Mr G didnt accept the investigators view, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has explained he feels Creditsafes assessment of his business credit risk was wrong. 
Mr G points out the nature of his business means he has to have good credit, he has never 
received a County Court Judgement and has been trading for many years. Mr G has 
explained in detail why he feels Creditsafes assessment was wrong. I understand the basis 
on which Mr G objects to the way Creditsafe viewed his business and that he disagrees with 
the conclusions it reached. 
Creditsafe has disagreed that it made an error when looking at Mr Gs company. It has given 
Mr G details of the various factors it takes into account when producing a credit report and 
score. Creditsafe has confirmed it takes a range of factors into account when considering 
how to score a company, including the likley risk of it defaulting on a debt. 
I can see how strongly Mr G feels in this matter and I understand the business account he 
wanted to open with a supplier was declined. But, we cant tell Creditsafe how to operate or 
what approach to take when producing a credit report. 
Creditsafe is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and is able to operate as a credit 
reference agency. We can look at whether Creditsafe has acted in line with its normal 
approach and procedures but we cant tell it what to take into account when assessing a 
company. 
Part of Mr Gs complaint is that Creditsafe made its decision on the wrong information and 
failed to correctly categorise his company as it didnt take its professioal status into account. 
But Ive seen emails between staff at Creditsafe that confirms it classified Mr Gs company in 
line with the categories available. And Mr G emailed Credtisafe on 19 June 2020 to confirm 
that the rest of the information it noted was right. 
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr G and can see he feels its 
clear Creditsafe made a mistake. But Im satisfied the information shows Creditsafe 
produced the credit report in line with its normal approach and havent found it made an 
error.  
In response to the investigator, Mr G said Creditsafe hadnt offered to amend his credit 
report before it was deleted. But I can see an email from Creditsafe from 9 June 2020 asked 
Mr G for details of information he thought was wrong so its supplier could contact him and 
arrange for it to be updated. Creditsafe went on to delete the report from its database 
entirely. 
Ive read and considered everything that Mr G and Creditsafe have sent us. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mr G but as I havent found that Creditsafe treated him unfairly Im not telling it to 
take any further action. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman