DRN-2245862
The complaint
Mr M complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (Atlanta) made an error in not 
including cover for rent protection when it helped him arrange a landlord insurance policy. 
Hes also unhappy it gave him incorrect advice about the extent of his cover.
What happened
Mr M owns a buy to let property. Over the last few years hes used Atlanta to arrange a 
landlords insurance policy on his behalf.
From May 2018 until May 2019 Atlanta arranged an insurance policy for Mr M with an 
insurer that Ill call P. This insurer included cover for rent protection as standard.
In May 2019 Atlanta renewed Mr Ms policy automatically on his behalf. But his insurer 
changed to a company, which Ill refer to as A. This insurer offered rent protection cover as 
an optional extra, which Mr M hadnt paid for. So, his policy no longer provided cover for rent 
protection.
On 3 June 2019 Mr M contacted Atlanta to discuss the extent of his cover with A. He asked 
whether he had cover for rent protection. And, while he was initially advised he was an 
optional extra he hadnt taken out, Atlanta subsequently informed him that rent protection 
was included as standard  in line with the policy hed previously held with P. So, Mr M told 
Atlanta that the cover it had arranged with A was suitable to his requirements.
On 21 April 2020 Atlanta sent Mr M a renewal invitation. This stated Mr Ms insurer was still 
A. And it confirmed rent protection wasnt covered by his policy. The following day, Atlanta 
wrote to Mr M to confirm it had renewed his insurance policy. It sent him documentation, 
which stated rent protection wasnt covered by his policy. And it asked him to check that the 
cover was suitable to his requirements.
On 5 May 2020 Mr M contacted Atlanta to complain that the advice hed been given the 
previous year about being covered for rent protection was incorrect. And, on 21 May 2020, 
he instructed Atlanta to cancel his policy, which it did.
On 9 June 2020 Atlanta issued it final response to Mr Ms complaint in which it confirmed it 
was upholding it. Atlanta accepted it had made an error in informing Mr M that rent 
protection was included in his policy. It explained feedback had been provided to ensure 
accurate advice was provided in the future. It also apologised for the error that Mr M had 
experienced. And it said it would have approached A to ask it to provide rent protection 
cover if Mr M had needed to make a claim during the time he was on cover. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Atlanta had dealt with his complaint. So, he referred it to our service 
for an independent review. After our investigator looked into what happened they didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. They thought that Atlanta had acted fairly in trying to resolve what 
happened. And they thought the apology that it had made sufficiently recognised the trouble 
and upset hed been caused. So, they didnt think Atlanta needed to do anything more here. 
But Mr M asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of this complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy 
by this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think 
are the key issues. I can assure Mr M and Atlanta that Ive read all the information theyve 
provided. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr M experienced here. Its clear from the information 
Ive seen that he wanted cover for rent protection. And he was without the cover he needed 
for 12 months. So, I can understand why he was unhappy with the policy Atlanta arranged 
with A on his behalf. And I recognise why he was upset when Atlanta incorrectly told him in 
2019 that cover for rent protection was included in his policy with A.
Mr M is unhappy with how Atlanta resolved his complaint. As the resolution of his complaint, 
it apologised for the error it had made and assured him that feedback would be provided to 
ensure this mistake didnt happen in the future. But Mr M appears to believe Atlanta should 
pay compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience he said he was caused here.
I think its important to say that, strictly speaking, we dont have the power to look at how 
financial businesses deal with complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under the 
legislation that governs our service. So, even if I did think Atlanta hadnt done things well in 
this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of Mr Ms concerns or make an award. 
I cant act outside the law. So, I wont spend any time in this decision on that. Instead Ill deal 
solely with whether Atlanta acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right for Mr M.
In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise that what happened 
must have been extremely frustrating to Mr M. But I think that Atlanta acted correctly in 
accepting responsibility for its error. And I think it did all it could to promptly investigate Mr 
Ms concerns. I say this because it issued it resolved his complaint relatively quickly.
Ive no doubt this was all inconvenient to Mr M. So, Ive thought carefully about whether an 
award of compensation is justified here. When deciding what potential compensation to 
award I must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any business error 
and non-financial loss, including distress and inconvenience. 
When considering awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact a business 
actions have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, 
whether compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Ive thought about whether Mr M suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened. But I 
havent seen any evidence that he suffered a loss of rental income. And theres nothing to 
suggest he needed to make a rent protection claim during the time he was on cover with A.I 
can see though that Atlanta informed Mr M it would have asked A to cover a rent protection 
claim had the need arisen during the time he was on cover, which I think is a fair approach 
for it to take in the circumstances.In view of the above, Im not persuaded Mr M incurred a financial loss as a result of what 
happened. In those circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of me to tell Atlanta to pay 
financial loss or compensation for something that didnt happen.
Ive gone on to consider whether an award of compensation is appropriate to reflect the 
trouble and upset Mr M said he was caused by what happened. 
I recognise Mr M had to contact Atlanta to cancel his policy  it was no longer suitable to his 
requirements. So, I can understand why he took the decision to obtain cover elsewhere. Im 
pleased to see he wasnt charged a penalty for cancelling his policy with A. But I can 
understand how inconvenient this all was for Mr M. And, as Ive already mentioned, he was 
without the cover he needed for 12 months. And this could have been mitigated had he 
received correct advice from Atlanta in June 2019 when he contacted it to clarify the extent 
of his cover with A.
Our service isnt here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Atlanta to 
apologise for what happened here. Its already done this and, while Mr M may disagree with 
me, Im satisfied that this fairly recognises the impact this all had on him. In the overall 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that what happened warrants an award of compensation 
here. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But I think Atlanta did all it can to resolve this 
dispute. So, Im not going to ask it to do anymore here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman