DRN-3955681
The complaint
Miss N complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc handled a claim made on her 
motorbike insurance policy. She wants compensation for being without her bike and 
reimbursement of her storage costs.
 
What happened
Miss Ns bike was vandalised, and she made a claim on her policy. The bike was taken to 
her garage and Miss N provided an estimate for repairs to West Bay. It said the bike was 
beyond economical repair and it offered Miss N the bikes market value in settlement of her 
claim. But Miss N was unhappy that West Bay then delayed paying her the settlement and 
that it deducted £722 for storage and the policy excess. Miss N thought she neednt pay this, 
and the charge was for longer than her bike was stored. 
West Bay said it hadnt authorised the recovery or the storage. But it agreed to pay the 
recovery charges and storage from the date the bike was written off. It said it hadnt added 
VAT to the amount it charged Miss N. And it said there had been some service failings and it 
paid Miss N £250 compensation for this and delays. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought West Bay 
wasnt responsible for the initial delay in the claim as Miss N was then abroad and it wasnt 
able to validate her claim. He thought West Bay hadnt authorised the repairs carried out by 
Miss Ns garage and so it wasnt responsible for this cost. 
He thought West Bay had caused delays in declaring the bike to be a total loss and 
collecting it from the garage. So he thought it was fair and reasonable for West Bay to pay 
the recovery charge, the storage charges from this date, waive the VAT and pay £250 
compensation to Miss N. But he thought it had overpaid the storage charges by 19 days 
because it hadnt checked these with Miss N. And he thought it should refund this amount to 
Miss N with interest from the date of settlement. 
West Bay thought Miss N should recover the overpayment from her garage. But the garage 
agreed that it had overcharged the costs and would reimburse West Bay. West Bay then 
thought it wasnt responsible for the mistake and so shouldnt pay interest. But it later agreed 
to do this. Miss N remained unhappy with West Bays communication with her during the 
claim. As Miss N didnt respond further, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there are a number of businesses involved in Miss Ns claim: West Bay and its 
agent, her broker, and her garage. Miss N was concerned that communication between the 
parties had been poor, and this had caused delays in her claim being settled. So she has 
been without her bike, and she said she has been caused stress and effort to resolve 
matters. She wants her storage fees refunded and compensation for the effect the claim has 
had on her. 
Miss N said she is also raising a complaint against her garage. But I cant consider that here 
as its a separate business. So I will consider just her concerns about West Bays handling of 
her claim. 
Ive first considered whether West Bay caused any avoidable delays in the claim. I think the 
initial delay was due to West Bay wanting further information from Miss N to validate the 
claim. Miss N was abroad and didnt provide this until her return. So I cant reasonably hold 
West Bay responsible for this delay. 
There was a delay of three days in West Bays engineers reviewing Miss Ns garages 
estimate for the repairs. It then took some time for West Bay to successfully make contact 
with Miss N. Instead, she contacted it to discuss the settlement. 
There was also a delay before West Bay settled the claim and its salvage agent collected 
the bike from the garage. I can see that this was due to Miss N disputing the settlement offer 
and the deductions and West Bay waiting until her complaint had been addressed until it 
concluded the matter. But West Bay ran over the eight weeks within which it should have 
responded to Miss Ns complaint. And so I think this delayed the settlement of the claim by 
about six weeks.
West Bay accepted that its communication with Miss N had been wanting during this time. It 
paid Miss N £250 compensation for the delays, call hold times and lack of communication. I 
think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the impact 
this had.
Miss N said she wasnt aware that there would be any storage charges and she wanted 
these refunded to her. The amount she was charged included her £250 policy excess. This 
is always the first part of a claim to be paid. And so I cant say that West Bay should refund 
this. 
West Bay paid the recovery charges and it agreed to pay the storage charges from the date 
it declared Miss Ns bike to be a write off. And it then deducted the balance charged by the 
garage from Miss Ns settlement. 
I think its been accepted by both parties that the garage provided incorrect information to 
West Bay about the number of days the bike had been stored. Its agent had paid this 
invoice, but the garage has already agreed to refund this over-payment to West Bay. And 
West Bay has agreed to refund this amount to Miss N with interest.
I accept that the garage provided the wrong dates to West Bay. But I think West Bay could 
have confirmed the storage dates with Miss N, but it didnt. And as it paid them, I think it 
would be unfair to ask Miss N to seek reimbursement. So I think its fair and reasonable for it 
to reimburse Miss N for these 19 days storage. And I also think that interest should be 
payable as Miss N has been without her money for some time.  
This means that Miss N has paid for the storage charges from the date her bike went to the 
garage until it was declared a total loss. But I can see that West Bay texted Miss N when it 
received notification of the claim to say that it would not be responsible for the storage 
charges as it hadnt authorised the recovery to the garage. Miss N said she may not have 
noticed this text. But I think West Bay gave her fair warning and so isnt responsible for the 
initial storage costs. 
Putting things right
I require West Bay Insurance Plc to reimburse Miss N for 19 days storage costs, adding 
interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the claim settlement 
was paid until the date of payment.
If West Bay considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss N how much its taken off. It should also give Miss N a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require West Bay Insurance Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman