DRN-1374210
 
The complaint
Ms H, on behalf of Mrs H, complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold Mrs H a credit card and 
current account.
What happened
Ms H holds a Power Of Attorney (POA) for Mrs H. She says Santander mis-sold Mrs H a 
credit card account and a current account with an overdraft. Ms H says Mrs H is now in 
financial difficulties and that she shouldn't have been given either account. She also says 
that Santander ought to have told her about the applications and says it told Mrs H that she 
needed to change her account from a basic account to one which had an overdraft facility.
Santander doesn't accept making a mistake and says Mrs H opened the accounts online. It 
says as a gesture of goodwill it will remove the charges and fees from both accounts which 
amount to about £225. Santander says the POA allows decisions to be made jointly between 
the POA holders or individually.
Ms H brought the complaint to us and our investigator didn't think Santander had acted 
unfairly. The investigator didn't think it mattered about what the POA said about decisions 
being made severally or individually as she thought that referred to the POA holders . But 
thought in any event, the POA didn't prevent Mrs H from opening the accounts as she did 
here online. The investigator thought Santander's goodwill gesture fair and reasonable in 
circumstances where it hadn't made a mistake or that it was obliged to tell Ms H about the 
applications.
Ms H doesn't accept that view and says the money should not be repaid and questions if 
Mrs H could have opened the accounts online.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator.
I have looked at Santander's records and I'm satisfied the credit card and current account 
were both opened online and not in branch. So I don't think either product was mis-sold as it 
was Mrs H that applied for them herself using her own details. I can see that Mrs H did apply 
for a savings account and that application appears to have been made in branch as I can 
see copies of Mrs H's passport were kept by Santander. I think it possible that is where the 
confusion may have come from about which account or accounts were opened in a branch. I 
appreciate that Ms H says she doesn't think that possible but for the reasons I have 
explained I'm satisfied they were opened online and by Mrs H.
As I find Mrs H opened the accounts and used them, I can't fairly order Santander to write off 
the balances owed to it. I'm satisfied Mrs H had the benefit of the money. But I can see that Santander has agreed to refund any charges,fees and interest which amounts to about 
£225. I think that is a fair and reasonable gesture of goodwill made in circumstances where I 
don't think Santander made a mistake or acted unfairly. I will leave it to Mrs H to decide if 
she wishes to accept that offer.
I appreciate that there is a POA in place here. But I don't think that means Santander ought 
to have told the POA holders that the account applications had been made by Mrs H.
Overall I don't think Santander has made a mistake and I'm satisfied Mrs H opened the 
accounts herself. 
Putting things right
I have said that I think Santander's gesture of goodwill offer is fair and reasonable. As I don't 
think it's made a mistake or acted unfairly then I can't order it to make that payment. So I will 
leave it to Mrs H to decide if she wishes to accept it . She can tell us, and we can let 
Santander know and if necessary it can make the adjustments to the accounts. I also hope 
Mrs H will consider speaking to Santander's debt team regarding the outstanding balances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman