DRN-2941476
Complaint
Mrs P and Ms P are unhappy that Santander didnt do more to protect her when Mrs P was 
the victim of fraud. 
Background
Mrs P and her daughter Miss P have a joint bank account with Santander. In January 2020, 
Mrs P was targeted by a fraudster. She was called by someone who claimed to be from the 
immigration authorities. They told her shed need to pay a fine of £5,000 or face arrest and 
deportation. The fraudster told her that they were in contact with the police station in her 
local area and faked a transferred call to a someone who pretended to be a police officer 
who confirmed that what shed been told was correct. 
She was told that shed have to pay the £5,000 by Bitcoin. She was told there was an ATM 
not too far away from where she lived that allowed people to make cash deposits into 
cryptocurrency accounts. I understand Mrs P was told that she mustnt discuss what she 
was doing with anyone and that her location was being tracked and her calls monitored.
Mrs P borrowed £5,000 in cash from a family member. However, this was denominated in 
£50 notes  the Bitcoin ATM would only accept £10 and £20 notes. She visited her local 
branch of Santander and asked to exchange her £5,000 worth of £50 notes for £20 notes. 
This was done and processed as a two almost simultaneous transactions on her account. 
She said the branch staff asked what the money was being used for and that she told them it 
was for an overseas trip. Mrs P says she wasnt asked any further questions that might have 
elicited that shed been targeted by a scammer. The Santander branch carried out her 
request and she made the £5,000 deposit at the Bitcoin ATM. It was only later that day when 
she explained what had happened to her family that she realised that shed fallen victim to a 
scam. 
She promptly notified the police and Santander. Santander investigated her concerns but 
said it wouldnt refund her the £5,000. It said it its evidence suggested that the bank 
employee had asked all the relevant questions to ascertain whether Mrs P was at risk of 
fraud and there was no obvious risk. Mrs P says that no questions were asked other than 
what the purpose of the transaction was. She said that theres no evidence that the bank 
employee asked the fraud questions and that the mere fact that they ticked a box on their 
system proves nothing.
Unhappy with Santanders response, she referred a complaint to this service. It was looked 
at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator didnt think Santander wouldve 
had any grounds to think Mrs P was at risk of fraud. She said:
She thought £20 notes would be more likely to be accepted when changing currency. 
Mrs P had told Santander that she was travelling to India and so this explanation 
would therefore have been plausible.
The value of the transaction wasnt so high that it shouldve caused Santander to be 
suspicious.
In any event, where a payment isnt being made between accounts, she wouldnt 
necessarily have expected Santander to look at the account history to see if its out of 
character.
It would be highly unusual for a fraudster to ask someone to swap the funds in this 
way and so Santander wouldnt have regarded it as suspicious.
Mrs P and Ms P disagreed with the investigators opinion. She said:
A transaction of this size was plainly out of character for the account.
She didnt tell the bank employee that the money was for a holiday  the fraudster 
had told her to say this, but no questions were asked.
The bank had a duty to question large deposits for AML purposes
£5,000 would be an extremely large amount of money for a holiday
Because Mrs P and Ms P disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make. However, I also consider that 
Santander should:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
I agree with Mrs P and Ms P that, if a customer arrives in branch with £5,000 in cash and 
wants to run it through their account to switch it from one type of banknote to another, that 
that is unusual and such a request shouldnt be processed without further discussion. 
However, this was an unusual way for a scam to operate which wouldve made it more 
difficult for a bank employee to spot that Mrs P had been exposed to the risk of financial 
harm. This was not an outbound payment from Mrs Ps account but a simple switch from one 
denomination to another. On the face of it, it didnt entail any loss to Mrs P at all. For that 
reason, I dont think Id have necessarily expected staff in the branch to pick up on the risk.Nonetheless, the transaction shouldnt have been processed without any questions being 
asked at all. I cant know with complete certainty what happened when Mrs P went into the 
branch. Santander has shown evidence that the bank employee ticked a box on their system 
to show theyd followed their standard process  which wouldve involved asking a few 
further questions about the source of the funds and whether anyone had asked her to carry 
out this transaction. Mrs P insists that no such questions were asked.
But even if I found that Santander had failed to question the transaction with Mrs P, it doesnt 
automatically follow that the complaint must be upheld. I need to be satisfied that an 
intervention on its part wouldve made a difference and prevented Mrs P from falling victim to 
the scam. It is now known with the benefit of hindsight that Mrs P had been targeted by a 
cruel and cynical scam. The question is whether the bank employee shouldve recognised 
that risk knowing what they knew at the time. 
Mrs P had been told to not discuss the transaction with anyone and that her conversations 
were being monitored. She was following this instruction because shed been subject to the 
frightening prospect of arrest and deportation. If the bank employee had asked her these 
standard fraud prevention questions, I find it very unlikely that shed have been open about 
her real reasons for making the transaction and so I dont think it wouldve been possible for 
Santander to prevent the scam.
Mrs P has clearly fallen victim to a cruel and cynical scam and she naturally has my 
sympathy for that. But after giving this case careful consideration, Im not persuaded it would 
be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to pay her a refund.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman