DRN-3813393
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service received from Embark Investment Services Limited 
(Embark). He says Embark delayed the transfer of his Stocks and Shares Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) to a third party. Along with a transfer of his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) to the same third party. He says this led to him incurring investment losses. 
What happened
Mr D held a Stocks and Shares ISA along with a SIPP with Embark. Mr D says that in 
December 2020, he requested both be transferred to a third party. 
Embark says it received the paperwork for Mr Ds SIPP transfer on 26 January 2021 and for 
his ISA, on 15 February 2021. Embark completed the transfer of the fund holdings within Mr 
Ds SIPP on 13 April 2021 and then transferred the cash balance on 3 June 2021. It 
completed the transfer of fund holdings within Mr Ds ISA on 21 April 2021 and paid the cash 
balance on 23 April 2021.
Mr D expected the transfer to take place sooner and made a complaint to Embark about this. 
He said he had made investment losses of around £20,000 due to not being able to trade 
during the time the transfer took place.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2022. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
To recap, the paperwork was received by Embark to transfer the SIPP on 26 January 2021. 
It re-registered the fund holdings on 13 April 2021 and transferred the cash on 03 June 
2021. The paperwork was received by Embark to transfer the ISA on 15 February 2021. It 
re-registered the fund holdings on 21 April 2021 and then transferred the cash balance on 23 
April 2021.
Embark took five weeks longer than it set itself within its own service standard to get the 
fund holdings re-registered for Mr Ds SIPP. It took a further seven weeks on top of that to 
transfer the residual cash balance. For the ISA, it took just over five weeks over the HMRC 
recommended 30 calendar days, to get the holdings re-registered and transfer the cash. But 
Embark accepts it was responsible for delaying the transfers of Mr Ds SIPP and his ISA, so 
I wont go into the detail concerning the circumstances of how it occurred, other than to say 
there was a delay that was longer than would be expected and this does seem to be 
because of Embarks lack of action.
What I do need to consider is whether Embarks offer to put things right is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says he should be compensated for investment losses that he says he has suffered 
due to the delays caused by Embark. He says during the transfer process his account was 
frozen, so he was unable to make any investments or changes to his investments. In 
particular, Mr D says that he was unable to invest his cash held within the SIPP and ISA into 
equities, and this led him to lose the opportunity to grow his savings. I note a substantial 
amount of Mr Ds ISA funds were held as cash. 
But Mr D has not provided any information about what he would have invested in, but for the 
delays caused by Embark. I dont think there is enough evidence to show that on balance he 
would have invested in different funds during the period of time that Embark were 
responsible for the delay to the transfers. There also isnt persuasive evidence showing how 
Mr D might have invested his cash holdings if hed been able to do so.
 I would need to see evidence from on or before the dates that Embark were responsible for 
delaying the transfers. The sort of evidence that would support Mr Ds suggestion that he 
has suffered investment losses may be phone records or correspondence between parties, 
that show, on the balance of probabilities, that he would have invested his cash on deposit 
or that he would have changed any of his existing holdings. 
In addition, I can see that the transfers of his SIPP and ISA were carried out in specie. In 
other words, he still held the same holdings during the transfer that he had held with Embark 
and so was still invested in the market. It seems likely on balance, without seeing any 
supporting information of Mr Ds intentions, that he was looking to keep the same holdings 
and same or similar cash balances with his new provider. And in this scenario any delay 
caused by Embark would have caused no detriment to Mr D in terms of the value of his 
investments.
So, in summary, I havent seen enough that I can safely conclude Mr D would have invested 
or reinvested during the period that Embark were responsible for the delays to his ISA or 
SIPP. So, I do not currently consider its been shown that Mr D has suffered investment 
losses. And the transfers were carried out in specie, so Mr D was not out of the market 
during this time either. I am currently not persuaded that he would have made any changes 
to his investments during the delay that Embark were responsible for. So, for these reasons, 
I dont think it would be fair to ask Embark to compensate Mr D for any investment losses. 
Embark offered to pay £300 payment for distress and inconvenience. I think this offer is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I understand it has already paid this amount to Mr D. 
For the reasons I have given above, I dont think it needs to do anything further.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Both parties did not respond by the deadline that I had set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart from my 
findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Mark RichardsonOmbudsman