DRN-2582804
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt deal with his claim of fraud quickly enough and 
then told him it would be closing his account.
What happened
Mr H says his mobile phone was stolen from him on 23 February 2020 shortly after using a 
cash machine to take out money from his account. He says £590 was transferred from his 
account using the app on his phone. He reported this to Monzo on 24 February 2020 but 
didnt receive a refund until 15 March 2020 after he had appealed. Monzo still said it would 
be closing his account and gave him two months notice.
Monzo said that it had needed to investigate what happened. And that it had changed its 
position about the fraud after Mr H had provided further information. It had allowed the 
normal period of notice when it had decided to close the account. And it told this service that 
as gesture of goodwill it would like to offer Mr H £50. The final response letter it sent on 19 
March 2020 had still said that the refund wouldnt be made.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that there was no 
direct financial loss now the money had been refunded. He didnt think that Monzo had 
initially reached a blatantly incorrect outcome. Under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 it wasnt required to make a refund before it had decided that the payment wasnt 
authorised if it had concerns. And it had raised a number of questions with Mr H about the 
timing of his genuine use of the account and what he said had happened. It was entitled 
under the terms and conditions of the account to decide to close it. The notice period 
depended on the specific circumstances and once it had accepted that Mr H had been the 
victim of fraud it had extended this from one week to two months. 
Mr H didnt agree. He thought that the customer service wasnt good enough as he had been 
accused of fraud. He wanted to emphasis the time it took to refund the money meaning he 
couldnt pay bills. This took place at the start of the pandemic and made his mental health 
problems worse causing him hardship.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the effect this fraud had on Mr H and the specific impact on his 
mental health. I dont doubt that having his phone snatched in this way would be a 
distressing experience made worse when he learnt that the fraudster had taken his money. 
And I understand why he wanted Monzo to refund him much more quickly so that he could 
pay his bills. As it had decided to refund him he doesnt see why his account was still going 
to be closed.
I dont need to make a decision about whether this payment was unauthorised because 
thats now been accepted by Monzo. Ive seen evidence of the exchange of messages with 
Mr H about what happened. And of its own investigation. I think it raised a number of 
appropriate questions relating to the circumstances of the fraud. And I dont think it was 
going to be able to say exactly what happened but was deciding whether it was going to hold 
Mr H responsible for the payment.
Given it found that it was going to refund him I know he wants to know why that didnt 
happen any sooner. But I think that Monzo did need time to look into things. And the primary 
source of the initial loss was from the fraudster which put Mr H in this difficult position. 
Although Monzo said it wouldnt refund Mr H on 13 March 2020, it considered his appeal the 
next day and then decided he was the victim. He received all the money back on 15 March 
2020.
Monzo was as our investigators explained entitled to close his account under the terms and 
conditions. Thats a commercial decision and not one I can say was a mistake or 
unreasonable. I understand what Mr H says about the impact for him. But I dont have a 
basis fairly to require Monzo to compensate him for that. It has since offered him a goodwill 
payment of £50 which he would need to contact Monzo to receive.
I know Im going to disappoint him when I say that I wont be requiring Monzo to take any 
further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman