DRN-3022831
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the support and information provided by Revolut Ltd when he enquired 
about exchange rates online. 
What happened
Mr K got in touch with Revolut via online chat on 3 October 2020 to ask about exchange 
rates for withdrawing cash abroad. He also asked what rate would apply if he withdrew 
cash at the weekend.
A live agent responded providing information about the charges that applied and 
limitations that would reset each month. They also explained that the exchange rates are 
real time rates and therefore constantly changing so they need to be checked in the app 
to get the applicable rate at the time. And if Mr K withdrew cash in a currency they didnt 
hold, they would automatically convert to the best available rate at the time provided by 
the financial exchanges. The agent also provided a link for Mr K to check the live rates.
On 6 February 2021 Mr K asked, via the chat, what the exchange rate was for withdrawal 
at weekends. The live agent provided the same information given previously which 
explained the rate was a real time rate received from third parties. And also advised if 
exchanging at the weekend, as the markets are closed, a fixed mark-up applied to protect 
against fluctuations. Details of those mark-ups was also provided.
Mr K asked what he would get if he withdrew £200 in Albanian Lek (ALL) that day. The 
agent explained that as it was a real time rate, he would need to check the rate in the app. 
Mr K asked how he could do this, some directions were provided but this didnt resolve 
things for Mr K. The agent continued to refer Mr K to the app to check the rate but then 
explained that to withdraw ALL he would need to check the rate online by searching it.
During the dialogue another agent took over and explained that for ATM withdrawals the rate 
would depend on the banks exchange rate at the time. He also said for Revolut you can see 
the exchange rate in the app but not for ALL as it isnt supported. A few days later Mr K was 
advised he could view the real time rates in the app and given directions of how to find it.
Mr K made a complaint to Revolut, he was unhappy he had to ask more than once about 
exchange rates at time of withdrawal, he said the rates didnt appear in the app and hed 
been told to look online but the information wasnt there. He said this wasnt transparent 
and not good business practice.
Revolut responded on 23 February 2021 and apologised, they accepted the service they 
provided could have been better. They also confirmed that Mr K could view the exchange 
rates in the app and reiterated the directions on how to do this. Revolut also said they had 
upgraded Mr Ks account to premium for one month as an apology. Mr K remained 
unhappy so brought his complaint to our service. 
As our investigator was unable to resolve things, the complaint was passed to me. And in 
August 2021, I issued a provisional decision, which said:
Mr Ks Revolut account is more of a remote account as it is managed mainly via an app 
and online. The Revolut website does highlight currency exchange, and directs to where 
you can see the rates via a link to the app. Additionally, the terms and conditions for the 
account also explain:
If you tell us to make a currency exchange, or we need to convert the currency of 
a payment into or out of your account (including cash withdrawals), we'll use an 
exchange based on our market data, which is based on foreign-exchange 
markets. This means we use a variable exchange rate which is changing 
constantly.
You can always see our current exchange rate in the Revolut app. Once 
we've converted a currency, your transaction history in the Revolut app will 
show the exchange rate we used too.
So, I think there was clear information available to Mr K advising the rates could be 
viewed within the app.
I understand that when Mr K got in touch with Revolut in October 2020 he was advised he 
could view the rates in the app and online. Later in February 2021 when he got back in 
touch with them it was also confirmed, but later in the chat he was told ALL was 
unsupported so couldnt be viewed in the app. The agent also provided detail from their 
website which explained:
The foreign exchange rate can be viewed on the Revolut app before exchanging 
currency or making a bank transfer involving foreign exchange. If you need to make 
a card payment or withdraw cash in a currency you cant hold with Revolut, just pay 
or withdraw cash using your Revolut card. We'll automatically convert at the 
available rate provided by financial exchanges.
Id expect Revolut to give correct information, and I can understand Mr Ks frustration as he 
was given conflicting information about whether he could view the rates for ALL in the app. 
However, he had been directed to the website and this details how to access exchange 
rates with a link to the app. I note Mr K had also previously received the correct information 
advising it could be viewed in the app and later when Mr K complained, it was also 
confirmed he could view the rates in the app with directions provided on where to find it.
Mr K said there wasnt an option to view the rates for GBP (British pounds) to ALL in the 
app but the agent explained he had tried and was able to. And from the chat conversation 
it seems Mr K didnt have any concerns with access following this.
Revolut responded to Mr Ks complaint on 23 February 2021.They apologised for the 
service and explained they were in a process of training staff. They also upgraded Mr Ks 
account to a premium account for one month free of charge. I understand there was some 
confusion about the activation of this and my understanding is that Mr K hasnt been given 
this as yet. However, Revolut have confirmed the upgrade is still available to Mr K.
Im not aware of any financial loss incurred as a result of the conflicting information but 
from the information provided, I can see it has caused Mr K some upset.
Revolut quickly clarified the situation following the confusion and along with the apology also 
offered reassurance about sharing learning and upskilling of staff. Given this I think the free 
upgrade for one month to Revoluts premium service is fair in the circumstances, so Im not 
minded to ask Revolut to do anything more.For the reasons explained above, subject to any further information I receive from either         
Mr K, or Revolut Ltd, my provisional decision is that Revolut Ltd should activate Mr Ks
complimentary one-month premium service but dont need to do anything more.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K had no further evidence for my consideration and has accepted my provisional 
decision. Revolut didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Revolut Ltd should activate Mr Ks complimentary one-month 
premium service but dont need to do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Jowill Manese
Ombudsman