DRN-3728390
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost to an investment scam. 
What happened
The events that unfolded in this case are well known to the parties, so I dont intend to detail 
them again here. Instead, Ill focus on the key reasons for my decision  our rules allow me 
to do so. 
In February 2022, Mr P made a £2,000 debit card payment from his Santander account. He 
did so believing that an advisor from the bank had contacted him to see if he was interested 
in investing in an online trading platform. Mr P therefore made the payment because he 
thought Santander had encouraged him to enter into a venture to make profit. 
The payment went to a genuine online company, Moonpay, which converts fiat currency into 
digital assets. Mr P was under the impression that the funds (once converted to crypto 
currency) would then be deposited to his online trading account with a separate entity. But in 
fact, the fraudsters had impersonated Santander and Mr P had made the payment to a scam 
 there was actually no investment trades taking place or advice from the bank. So, once his 
money left Moonpay, it was sent to accounts controlled by the fraudsters  which is where  
Mr Ps loss occurred. 
When Mr P realised what had happened, he reported the scam to Santander. The bank 
declined to reimburse the transaction, as it said it had been authorised. And Santander stood 
by its decision when Mr P raised a complaint. Mr P then brought the dispute to our service 
and one of our investigators concluded that Santander could not fairly be required to refund 
the payment. 
Because Mr P disagrees, the matter has been escalated to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that the disputed payment was authorised for the purposes of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), in force at the time. This is because it was 
made by Mr P using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by Santander. 
Santander has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments made to, amongst other 
things, prevent fraud and scams. And the bank needs to have systems in place to look out 
for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its customers are at risk of fraud. 
So, in the individual circumstances of this case, Ive considered whether Santander should 
have deemed this payment as being so unusual or uncharacteristic that it ought to have 
given sufficient grounds for suspected fraud. 
Looking at the statements for the year or so prior to this disputed transaction, there were 
regular card payments carried out in recent times. Its evident that Mr P had made numerous 
online card purchases, similar to the one being contested here. Suffice to say, the £2,000 
payment did not represent a sudden increase in spending. It also did by no means 
completely drain the account of its available balance. Indeed, Mr P still had a considerable 
credit balance ready for use (c.£60,000). 
In isolation, the payment to Moonpay was not for a distinctive amount when looked at 
against the backdrop of what Mr P paid in. In fact, Mr P frequently replenished the account 
with deposits in that totalled well over twice that amount, all within the space of less than two 
months of February 2022. Therefore, theres a reasonable argument that, from the banks 
perspective, this was simply a planned payment which was made possible by frequent 
credits.
I have to bear in mind that the PSRs are designed to protect consumers  but also to ensure 
that banks provide services without undue delay. There is a balance to be struck between 
bankers identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments. I dont consider that a transaction of this amount  when considered 
in the context of a very healthy account balance with repeated credits being regularly paid in 
 is a large enough sum to have attracted suspicion. 
With all this in mind, I find that it would be unreasonable to conclude that Santander made a 
failing by not intervening with this payment. Besides, we know that when Santander did later 
intervene and question Mr Ps intention to make a subsequent payment to another account 
he held with another bank (for a transaction with the value twice the amount of the one in 
question here), Mr P provided assurances that he was confident of the legitimacy of the 
investment scheme he was entering into. 
In other words, when Santanders transaction monitoring systems were triggered and 
conversations were had to try and protect Mr P from falling victim to a scam, Mr P ultimately 
decided to go ahead with the payment anyway.  
Finally, I have considered whether the recovery process known as chargeback was a viable 
option for Mr P. But as the fraudster was not a party to the payment, Mr P couldnt have a 
valid claim against the legitimate company paid. This is because Moonpay, as a legitimate 
company, provided the services as intended  which was to purchase cryptocurrency. The 
subsequent transfer to a different wallet would not give rise to an effective chargeback 
dispute  so I dont find that Mr P had a legitimate claim here.  
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr P being the victim of what was clearly 
a cruel scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct Santander to refund his loss if I 
thought the bank was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. 
Everything considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Santander liable in these 
circumstances. It follows that I will not be asking the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman