DRN-2473415
The complaint
Mr M complains about his home insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc, and its loss adjusters 
decisions and handling of his claim for subsidence damage to his home.
 
What happened
Mr M reported damage to the rear of his property to AXA under the subsidence peril in his 
insurance policy. AXA sent loss adjuster to assess the damage and it employed an arborist 
to assess and subsequently remove a large tree. A period of monitoring followed to see if the 
property had stabilised. Mr M said that AXA and its loss adjuster showed a total disregard to 
his loss and their handling of his claim. He said the loss adjuster had rushed his claim and 
were intent on carrying out minimal works leaving a risk of continuing and further loss.
Mr M said hed incurred additional costs for a structural engineer and surveyor to check and 
correct the loss adjusters mistakes including removal of a tree stump which was hazardous, 
and AXA should reimburse him. Mr M doubted that removal of the tree had fully resolved the 
movement in his home as it was remote from the property. Mr M said his surveyor provided 
a comprehensive report highlighting the omission of some repairs from the loss adjusters 
schedule of work. He said the schedule should include all necessary work to maintain the 
value of his home including the repair of his patio and replacement of a window. 
AXA acknowledged it could have been handled Mr Ms claim better as he wasnt always kept 
informed and the schedule of work was delayed and paid him £600 compensation. AXA said 
Mr Ms home is stable and the scheduled repairs will put it back to its pre-loss condition. 
AXA said Mr Ms policy covers damage by subsidence, but not the cause and so the tree 
removal was dealt with as a gesture of goodwill, but it wouldnt pay for removal of the stump. 
AXA said the surveyor and structural engineers reports obtained by Mr M offered no 
additional insight into the claim and werent approved by AXA and so it wouldnt meet the 
cost. AXA said Mr Ms patio suffered from historic damage unrelated to subsidence.
Mr M was dissatisfied with AXAs response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. He said removal of trees stabilised 
the property and the schedule of work covered requirements. He said the policy doesnt 
cover the cost of removing the tree and he would only tell AXA to cover the cost of an expert 
report if it had a material impact on the outcome of the claim, but this wasnt the case here. 
The investigator said the loss adjuster assessed Mr Ms patio when drawing up the schedule 
of work. He said historic issues were noted with construction relating to open joints between 
slabs, inadequate means of surface water drainage and an inadequate sub base. He said 
the damage appears to be unrelated to subsidence and wouldnt be covered by the claim. 
The investigator said replacement of a window was being considered as part of the claim.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said the facts hadnt been properly considered, for example only one tree had been removed 
and the investigator had overlooked the surveyors report which advised that the schedule of 
work is inadequate leading to decreased value of his home. Mr M said the investigators 
comment that Your policy provides cover for the damage caused by Subsidence but doesnt 
cover the cause of this subsidence is strange, and there is no wording of this in the policy. 
Mr M sent a note from his surveyor saying that as the cause of movement was the tree AXA 
should also remove the stump and roots. He said the patio had subsided unrelated to its 
materials or workmanship. He said the schedule of work remains inadequate and should be 
discussed with AXA concerning an increase to ensure the movement doesnt progress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have only considered Mr Ms complaint up until AXAs response in August 2020. It is open 
to Mr M to bring a further complaint to AXA for events that have taken place since then. He 
can then escalate a complaint to our service if he wishes. 
We are not experts in structural engineering and so when the parties to an insurance claim 
disagree about the cause of damage and what repairs are required to restore a property to 
its former condition we rely on the available evidence.
I have reviewed the reports from the site investigation, completed by AXAs loss adjuster, 
and the arborist and the monitoring reports of Mr Ms home. The loss adjuster who deploy 
subsidence experts reported that subsidence was due to movement from root induced clay 
shrinkage. Site investigations have been carried out to confirm this and to confirm the oak 
tree as the cause. AXAs surveyor identified tree roots underneath the foundation within the 
clay sub-soil as the direct cause of the damage.
This is one of the main causes of subsidence in properties and the effectiveness of remedial 
action is assessed by level monitoring. The monitoring reports have shown that the removal 
of the tree has stabilised the property. From this it would appear that repairs to the structure 
of the property can deal with the effects of the subsidence. AXAs loss adjuster provided Mr 
M with a detailed schedule of work to repair his home in December 2019.
Mr Ms surveyor said the works should be discussed with AXA with a view to an increase to 
ensure movement to the property doesnt progress. The monitoring reports demonstrate the 
movement has ceased and so I dont see a benefit to this suggestion, although discussions 
about the repairs can still take place. Mr Ms surveyor suggested underpinning of the 
property might be required. As the property has stabilised and no detailed reasons have 
been given for underpinning I cant say that this is required. Mr M also obtained a report from 
a structural engineer. This didnt state a definitive cause for the subsidence but listed the 
damage to Mr Ms home.
Mr M and his surveyor said that his home would suffer loss of value over time if inadequate 
repairs werent carried out. I agree that this is a risk, but all repairs are guaranteed by AXA 
and future subsidence is covered by Mr Ms policy should he remain insured with AXA. The 
policy states that loss of property value from depreciation is not covered or a reduction in the 
market value of the property due to an insured event or otherwise.
Mr M obtained the reports as he wasnt satisfied with the proposed repairs. However, from 
my reading of his reports I dont think they have had a significant impact on the claim, and as 
this is our test for the recovery of costs by a policyholder without the authorisation of their 
insurer, I wont be requiring AXA to reimburse Mr M for these costs. I can see that AXAs loss adjuster have advised that a window in Mr Ms home is beyond 
repair and requires replacement. I understand that this is being considered as part of the 
repairs required by the claim. I think this is reasonable.
Mr M thinks his patio has also suffered from subsidence and should be covered as part of 
his claim. According to AXAs surveyor the patio paving slabs have become undulated over 
a long period due to an inadequate sub-base and other construction issues. The report 
points to the patio damage pre-dating the damage from the subsidence and the photos 
appear to support this conclusion. Consequently, I dont think it would be fair to AXA to link 
the patio damage to Mr Ms claim.  
Mr Ms surveyor said the tree stump and roots should be removed. I have seen from the 
photo that the tree has been removed to ground level. AXA has said that the policy only 
covers the damage caused by subsidence not the underlying causes of subsidence. We 
expect insurers to make lasting and effective repairs and so Im pleased that AXA removed 
the tree as the cause of the problems. Insurers dont have to go beyond this requirement, 
and I dont think the policy requires AXA to do any more than this and I dont think AXA has 
been unreasonable here. 
I am pleased that AXA has apologised to Mr M for the delays in producing the schedule of 
work. Mr M had to pursue AXA and its agents on a number of occasions to get updates on 
his claim and the assessment of what was required to do to his home. AXA has paid Mr M 
£600 compensation and I think this is a satisfactory acknowledgement of the distress and 
inconvenience he has been put to during this period. 
From the available information, Im satisfied that the schedule of work sets out reasonable 
repairs to Mr Ms home, though I cant be certain that it covers every repair that is required. 
Mr Ms surveyor said that further discussion needs to take place between Mr M and AXA 
about the repairs and I recommend that Mr M engages with AXA about the repairs required. 
And I see no reason why the repairs cannot follow on immediately after this. 
AXAs loss adjuster has offered a further site visit to discuss any matters of concern and 
reach an agreement on the repairs. Mr M can continue to use professional advice in that 
process but should be aware that this is likely to be at his own expense. I think that looks to 
be the best way forward in order to get Mr Ms claim resolved.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman