DRN-3323416
The complaint
Miss D, through her representative, complains that Santander UK Plc, (Santander), mis-
sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Miss D took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy in 2006, at the same time as re-mortgaging 
her home. The sale took place during a meeting. The initial premiums for this insurance 
were about £40 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. As Miss D 
disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance 
on our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to her, but Ive decided not to uphold 
Miss Ds complaint. I explain why below.
I think that Miss D knew that the MPPI was optional and that she chose to take it. I say 
this because Ive seen the record of her discussion with Santanders representative. This 
says that she said that she didnt have any MPPI and that she would be able to pay her 
mortgage and related payments if she was unable to work because of accident or 
sickness. But wouldnt be able to do so if she became involuntarily unemployed. The 
MPPI needs and recommendations letter sent to Miss D repeats this and says that she 
accepted Santanders representatives recommendation that she take out MPPI to cover 
her for involuntary unemployment. It also sets out the monthly benefit she wanted to be 
paid following a successful claim. Further Ive seen Miss Ds mortgage offer and it 
doesnt contain any condition requiring her to take out MPPI.
Santander advised Miss D to take the MPPI. This means that it had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that it was suitable for her. 
I find that the policy was suitable for Miss D. I say this because, knowing what I do 
about her circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy:
oMiss D was eligible for the policy;
oI can see that Miss D became unwell a few years after the policy was sold to her. 
And, Im aware that the medical condition that she has doesnt usually appear 
suddenly, but gradually gets worse over time. But Ive seen no evidence that she was 
ill at the time of the sales meeting. Nor that there was any indication that she was not 
able to make decisions about the re-mortgage and associated products, such as the 
MPPI, at that time. Overall, I havent seen anything that I find, as her representative 
suggests, should have put Santander on notice that it ought to carry out some special 
assessment before having agreed to sell Miss D the MPPI;
oMiss D was not adversely affected by any of the policys main limitations and 
restrictions, such as those affecting someone who was self-employed;
oThe policy was competitively priced by reference to other policies available in the 
market at the time. And it offered a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything 
to make me think that Miss D couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, because it 
was paid for monthly, had she later thought that she couldnt afford or no longer 
wanted it, she could have cancelled it at any time without further cost;
oMiss D says that at the time of the sale she had no savings and wasnt entitled to 
sick pay from her employment. So, I dont know why Miss D said, at the sales 
meeting, that she would be able to make her mortgage and associated payments if 
she had been unable to work because of accident or sickness. But the paperwork 
from this time records this, as well as her decision to take out the policy just to 
cover involuntary unemployment. So, Im satisfied that she and Santander 
discussed the options she had regarding the available cover and that she decided 
not to include accident and sickness. And from this I cant conclude that it was 
unreasonable for Santander to sell Miss D MPPI covering involuntary 
unemployment only;
oFollowing a successful claim for involuntary unemployment, the MPPI would have 
paid out over £900 a month for up to 12 months. So I find that the policy could 
have been of use to Miss D.
Santander had to give Miss D clear, fair, and not-misleading information so that she 
could make an informed decision whether she wanted to take the insurance or not, in 
the light of her circumstances at the time. Its possible that Santander didnt tell Miss D 
everything that it ought to have  for instance that she would have to continue paying 
the premiums during a claim. But, as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for her, I 
think that with clearer information she would still have thought the insurance was 
reasonable value and be of use and have bought it. I say this, bearing in mind the 
serious consequences that could have arisen had Miss D been unable to make her 
mortgage repayments, which were secured on her home. 
This means that Miss D hasnt lost out because of anything that may have been wrong 
with Santanders sales process. So theres nothing I require Santander to put right.
As Ive said, Ive considered everything Miss D has said to us. Including, what appears 
to be, a suggestion that she is being treated differently because of some of her personal 
characteristics - such as her age or place of residence. Ive seen no evidence of this. 
Ive also seen that Miss D appears to have suffered financial difficulties soon after the 
policy was sold. But theres nothing which I find shows that Santander could have 
anticipated this at the time of the sale. So these and Miss Ds other comments dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman