DRN-2749189
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. unreasonably failed to pay all his claim when he had to curtail his skiing
trip due to the death of his mother.
References to Mapfre include all its agents.
  
What happened
Mr K went skiing in Europe in February 2020 on an all-inclusive trip. He was due to return to
the UK on 22 February 2020 but was sadly informed that his mother had become seriously
ill, so he returned to UK on 18 February. Very sadly his mother died the next day.
Mr K made his claim to Mapfre to include the following:
Taxis fares of €240
Flight cost of £491.62
Train fare of £34.60
The unused accommodation and ski pack costs pf £1,459.
Mapfre delayed in dealing with Mr Ks claim so Mr K brought his complaint about that to us.
However, Mapfre then agreed to forgo the usual requirement for a medical certificate. It also
agreed to pay Mr Ks flight costs, taxi fares and train fare which Mr K received. And it agreed
to pay £100 compensation too.
But it said, it wouldnt pay his unused accommodation costs because it required a booking
invoice or a breakdown from the school through which Mr K travelled.
Mr K said he didnt have any of this and neither could he get something from the school. On
this basis Mapfre refused to pay this part of his claim. The investigator didnt think Mapfre
had done anything wrong. Mr K disagreed so Mr Ks complaint was passed to me to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 August 2021 and I said the following:
The only issue thats stopping Mapfre paying the rest of Mr Ks claim is this lack of 
booking invoice and breakdown. Mr K has tried his hardest to get this but given the 
way his holiday was booked through the school, this hasnt been possible. The full 
amount of Mr Ks all-inclusive holiday is known. The number of unused days is also 
known.
I understand there could be an issue regarding over compensation for both food and 
drink (not normally insured under most travel policies, including this one) included in 
the holiday plus the cost of Mr Ks return flight since Mapfre already reimbursed him 
for his emergency flight home. However, I think this is so minimal it doesnt warrant 
the unreasonableness of the complete failure to refund anything for the unused 
portion of Mr Ks holiday, more so bearing in mind the reason Mr K had to curtail his 
holiday was due to the fact that his mother was dying and so very sadly died the next 
day. I would have expected Mapfre to show some level of compassion towards Mr K 
and the difficulty he encountered in obtaining the breakdown required by Mapfre. I 
also consider the distress Mapfre has caused by such steadfast refusal to entertain 
any negotiation at all over this far, outweighs any element of possible over 
compensation, given Mapfre validated the rest of his claim.
The total all-inclusive cost was £1,399.00 plus £60.00 ski pass which totals 
£1,459.00, which works out at £182.37 per day. His holiday was for eight days and 
given Mr Ks early return that meant there was five days unused. Therefore, I 
consider Mapfre should now pay Mr K the sum of £911.85 notwithstanding this will 
include a proportion for food and drink (which as it was an all-inclusive holiday was 
paid for upfront anyway and not refunded) plus something towards the original 
intended flight costs home, less any applicable excess. Mapfre should add interest of 
8% simple per year from the date Mr K returned home to the date it refunds him.
Notwithstanding this includes a little over compensation and notwithstanding Mapfre 
has already agreed to pay £100 compensation, I also consider Mapfre should pay a 
further £150 compensation to Mr K for the excessive distress Mr K suffered given 
Mapfres failure to even negotiate with him over this part of his claim, given it had 
validated his claim in any event.
Mr K responded accepting my provisional decision. He also said the excess had already 
been taken by Mapfre when it paid the other parts of his claim.
Mapfre responded accepting my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I see no reason to depart from the outcome and reasoning I detailed 
in the provisional decision.
  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. to do the following:
Pay Mr K the total sum of £911.85 (given the excess has already been paid) for the 
unused part of his holiday. Adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mr K 
returned to the UK to the date it refunds him. If income tax is to be deducted from the 
interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr K for HMRC purposes.
Ensure it pays Mr K a total of £250 compensation.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 Rona Doyle
Ombudsman