DRN-2323827
The complaint
Mr M complains about the late delivery of a car he bought under a finance agreement 
brokered by Neva-Consultants.com Limited. He also complains that the car did not meet his 
requirements.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr M hired a Mercedes-Benz car, the hire agreement having been 
brokered by Neva-Consultants. He chose a car with certain premium specifications, which 
meant that the car would be made to order. He was initially told that the car would be 
delivered in late November or early December, but in subsequent emails the delivery date 
was repeatedly put back, and he lost confidence in what Neva was telling him. When the car 
was delayed into the next year, the manufacturer wanted to charge him a higher price for a 
newer model, and so Mr M complained about that. Neva reduced the price back to the 
original price (at its own expense). Shortly before that happened, Mr M had been told that 
the car would not come with the premium specifications he had ordered after all. Because of 
these issues, Neva required him to sign a new contract, which he did. There was then 
another delay, and so Mr M hired a car from a third party in the meantime, and he asked 
Neva to reimburse him for that.
Neva did not accept that any of this was its fault. It said it had relied in good faith on what 
Mercedes-Benz had told it, and it was not responsible for the delays, which were the result 
of the manufacturer over-booking orders due to high demand. Nevertheless, as a gesture of 
good will it refunded the arrangement fee and offered Mr M another £100, which he declined. 
Mr M brought this complaint to our Service, but one of our investigators decided that the 
complaint did not fall within our Services jurisdiction. (He nevertheless told Mr M what he 
thought of the merits of his complaint, by way of obiter dictum.) Mr M did not accept that 
decision, and he asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, I will only be considering the jurisdiction point, and the merits of so much of this 
complaint which I think falls within our Services jurisdiction. I will not consider the merits of 
the parts of the complaint which I do not have jurisdiction to consider.
The jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service is set out in rules made by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Nevas involvement in this case is as broker of the hire 
agreement. In these circumstances, the rules only permit our Service to consider a complaint 
against Neva to the extent that the complaint is about the regulated activity of credit broking. 
I cannot consider a complaint about anything else Neva did.
I can certainly consider the broking of the original credit agreement. I have considered 
whether this was mis-sold by way of Neva misrepresenting to Mr M the time by which the car 
would be delivered, and thereby inducing him to enter a contract he would not have entered 
had he known that the car would be late. However, I have seen no evidence that Neva did 
not have reasonable grounds to believe this to be true at the time. I think it was reasonable 
of Neva to rely on what the manufacturer had told it, at least at first. (Whether it was 
reasonable of Neva to rely on what it was told after that is one of the matters I cannot 
consider.) Therefore, having regard to section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967, I dont 
think Neva is liable for any misrepresentation, if indeed there was one (it may have been true 
at the time).
The other matters Mr M is complaining about are all things which happened after he entered 
into the original hire agreement. It follows that they are not part of the regulated activity of 
credit broking, and so I have no power to consider them.
The exception to that is the broking of the second agreement in February 2019: that is within 
my jurisdiction. But since that came about as the result of circumstances beyond Nevas 
control, and by then Mr M knew that the car would not have the specifications he had 
originally ordered, I dont think I can fairly hold Neva liable for the causes of Mr Ms 
dissatisfaction.
So I am currently not minded to uphold this complaint, and I am not able to consider the 
matters I have not made provisional findings about above.
Responses to my provisional findings
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. So there is no reason for me to depart 
from my findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman