The complaint
Mr O says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit card repayments.
What happened
Mr O applied for a credit card by post in 1999. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
cover his credit card payments. The policy cost £0.70 per £100 of the balance on Mr Os 
credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance 
for up to 12 months per claim if Mr O was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost 
his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Os complaint should be upheld because she thought Mr O 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr O disagrees. He says it wasnt made clear it was optional and he didnt need it.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Os complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint.
The PPI was applied for by post in 1999 when Mr O completed a postal application for a 
credit card. I understand Mr O doesnt remember this which is understandable given its been 
over 20 years. But Barclays have given us a copy of the application form Mr O completed. I 
can see on the side of it it says moisten and seal which I think indicates it was a self-sealing 
application which was to be posted back to Barclays.
Theres a separate section on the application form that deals with PPI. It gives the option to 
select PPI by ticking the Yes box or to decline PPI by ticking the No box. I can see on Mr 
Os application form a tick has been placed in the box to take PPI. If Mr O didnt want PPI he 
could have ticked to decline cover instead. 
DRN-1101234So I think because Mr O selected to take PPI with a tick he understood he had a choice in 
taking the policy and wanted the cover. But again  given the length of time that has passed 
- I can understand why he might not remember this or that he had PPI.
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Barclays advised Mr O to take 
PPI. What this means is that Barclays didnt recommend PPI to Mr O, it just gave him 
information about PPI (it was up to Mr O to assess his circumstances and decide if the 
product was needed). This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Barclays did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if 
Barclays did give all the information Mr O needed to make an informed choice on taking out 
the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what we 
know about Barclays policies:
He was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of
the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it
difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr O says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay and had
savings he could use to make his credit card payments if he couldnt work due to
accident or sickness or if he lost his job. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any
sick pay or savings and helped him in these situations, so I cant see how knowing
this information wouldve put him off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr O and he could cancel
the policy if he no longer wanted it.
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr O on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him. Which 
means I wont be asking Barclays to pay back the PPI premiums to Mr O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr O's complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2019.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman