DRN-2045719
 
The complaint
Miss L complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for
their actions.
From 11 December 2018 Miss L renewed a British Gas policy that covered kitchen
appliances including her fridge. She agreed to pay the yearly premium of £112.50 by ten
instalments of £11.25.
The policy terms provided that if British Gas couldnt repair an appliance, it would pay a
percentage of the cost of a replacement. This contribution would be 100% if the appliance
was up to three years old and 30% if it was more than three years old.
Miss Ls family unit included a vulnerable child.
Miss Ls fridge was more than three years old. It broke down on 8 July 2019 in hot weather.
On 10 July 2019 the first British Gas engineer visited and ordered a spare part.
The second appointment was booked for 12 July 2019, but the part wasnt going to arrive in
time. British Gas didnt tell Miss L even when she called on 11 July 2019.
The part then arrived and the second British Gas engineer visited on 18 July 2019. But he
said the back wall of the fridge had blown, so it wasnt repairable. British Gas gave Miss L a
voucher for about £85.00 representing 30% of the cost of a new fridge.
Miss L complained that the first engineer shouldve said her fridge wasnt repairable. British
Gas sent a final response dated 13 August 2019. It said it would send her £50.00 and write
off three instalments totalling £33.75. Miss L brought her complaint to us the same day.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that if the
fridge had been turned off between visits the replacement wouldve been avoidable. She
didnt think it was fair to consider the age of the fridge if the damage that caused it to break
was avoidable. So she thought that Miss L should receive 100% of the cost for a new fridge
rather than 30%. The investigator recommended that British Gas should send Miss L the
70% difference.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss L 
and to British Gas on 25 June 2020. I summarise my findings:
On balance I didnt find that the wall had blown on 10 July.
Miss L was without a working fridge from 8 July and that made it impossible to keep 
fresh food. But I couldnt say that it was unreasonable for British Gas to order and 
await parts before on 18 July it decided the fridge wasnt repairable and it issued its 
voucher towards a replacement.
I was minded to find that the £50.00 plus the rebate of £33.75 was enough to fairly 
compensate Miss L for the distress and inconvenience caused by the shortcomings 
Id found in the service of British Gas.
Subject to any further information from Miss L or from British Gas, my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
British Gas hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Miss L disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
On the first visit the engineer didnt pull the fridge out and look at the back. He didnt 
take any steps other than to look inside the fridge.
As a result the fridge was left on. Either the back wall had already blown at that point 
or the first engineer caused it to blow in between visits.
The second engineer said the first engineer didnt write the fridge off because of it 
negatively impacting his performance.
The £80 offered wasnt fair for the loss of food, the chasing, the phone calls, the 
failed promises, loss of annual leave and the lack of contact and the delays.
Although British Gas said it tried to contact her, this absolutely did not happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has said that on 10 July the back wall of the fridge hadnt blown. But the
final response included the following:
On arrival the [second] engineer confirmed that your appliance was beyond 
economical repair, as the back wall had blown. I have spoken to the Service 
Manager for your area who confirmed that he would have expected the initial 
engineer to identify this, however, fitting the part may have resolved the issues for a 
short time
Miss L says she overheard a telephone conversation between the second and first
engineers. She says that the first engineer had been reluctant to write the fridge off in case
that affected his rating and reward. The final response said that wasnt correct but it
apologised for the unprofessional comments.
The first engineer later said the following:
I remember [second engineer] ringing me saying the wet wall had blown due to the
blockage and he had to write the unit offOur investigator thought that meant that - by leaving the fridge turned on between visits -
British Gas caused damage that wasnt repairable. So she didnt think the fridge was beyond
repair on 10 July 2019.
I havent seen enough technical evidence about the mechanism of failure of the fridge.
I consider that the best evidence of its condition on 10 July 2019 comes from the first
engineer as he inspected it that day. The second engineer inspected it a week later and I
dont think the Service Manager inspected it at all. So on balance I dont find that the wall
had blown on 10 July 2019.
Miss L was without a working fridge from 8 July and that made it impossible to keep fresh
food. But I cant say that it was unreasonable for British Gas to order and await parts before
on 18 July 2019 it decided the fridge wasnt repairable and it issued its voucher towards a
replacement.
I dont think theres enough evidence that British Gas caused the fridge to become beyond
repair. 
Miss Ls fridge was over three years old. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British
Gas to pay any more than 30% of the cost of a replacement.
British Gas didnt communicate properly with Miss L. In particular, when she rang on 11 July
2019 to change the appointment from morning to afternoon on 12 July, British Gas shouldve
said that the visit couldnt go ahead because the spare part wouldnt be available. An
engineer cancelled the appointment but didnt tell Miss L.
The effect of this on Miss L was that she wasted an afternoon off work and she had to chase
up British Gas. British Gas then didnt ring her back as promised. She also encountered
some difficulty in getting the voucher on 18 July. So Miss L was put to some inconvenience
and upset.
However, I find that the £50.00 plus the rebate of £33.75 was enough to fairly compensate 
Miss L for the distress and inconvenience caused by the shortcomings Ive found in the 
service of British Gas.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman