DRN-4165192
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on a motor insurance
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car made by a premium brand
manufacturer and first registered in 2011.
For the year from May 2021, Mrs J had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Aviva.
Unfortunately, in February 2022, Mrs J reported to Aviva that an accident outside a
restaurant had damaged the car. Aviva arranged repair.
Mrs J complained to Aviva that its repairer returned the car to her in early May 2022 with
some of the accident damage unrepaired and with further damage  and left it parked on
double yellow lines.
Aviva arranged further inspection of the car and replacement of a module. Mrs J complained
that the car still had unrepaired damage and some new damage.
By a final response dated 7 October 2022, Aviva offered to send £250.00 compensation. But
Aviva said that the damage wasnt its responsibility.
Mrs J brought her complaint to us in late November 2022.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs J  
and to Aviva on 18 May 2023. I summarise my findings:
Mrs Js complaint to us included the following issues:
delay in requesting CCTV
conflicting information about whether the car was repairable
storage charges
I hadnt seen enough evidence that Mrs J had complained to Aviva about those 
issues. So I didnt consider that the rules allowed me to deal with those complaints.
I found Aviva responsible for poor service in delivering the vehicle in early May 2022 
and in its communication with Mrs J. I was satisfied that £250.00 was at least as 
much as I wouldve found fair and reasonable.
I didnt think Mrs J accepted that offer or provided bank details for Aviva to make the 
payment. As it was in a final response, I was minded to hold Aviva to its offer. 
Subject to any further information from Mrs J or from Aviva, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs J 
(insofar as it hasnt already paid her) £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Aviva said that it had nothing to add in response to the provisional decision.
Mrs J hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
So I see no reason to change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. One of those rules means that  before we can investigate a complaint 
the consumer must first have made that complaint to the business and waited for up to eight
weeks for a final response. It follows that we can usually investigate complaints that were
made to the business before the final response.
Mrs Js complaint to us included the following issues:
delay in requesting CCTV
conflicting information about whether the car was repairable
storage charges
I havent seen enough evidence that Mrs J had complained to Aviva about those issues. So I
dont consider that the rules allow me to deal with those complaints at this stage.
From the policy schedule, I see that the benefit of a courtesy car had been removed. So
Aviva didnt have to provide a courtesy car while Mrs Js car was in for repair.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs J became unwell.
From what Mrs J and Aviva have each said, in early May 2022 the battery was flat and the
delivery driver left the car on yellow lines.
I accept that the key and the number plate had been damaged by that time. But I consider
that Mrs J has fallen short of showing that the accident damaged the number plate or that
Aviva was responsible for damage to the key.
I accept that Aviva arranged the replacement of a module. I consider that Aviva gave Mrs J
the benefit of the doubt as to whether such replacement was Avivas responsibility. I dont
find it unfair that Aviva didnt provide a courtesy car.
By June 2022, there was damage near the filler cap and near a rear light. From a callrecording, I accept that an Aviva complaints handler said he couldnt see such damage on
earlier images. He also asked for a quote for repair. But I dont accept that he said that Aviva
would pay to repair that damage. And I consider that Mrs J has fallen short of showing that it
was Avivas responsibility.
In conclusion, I find Aviva responsible for poor service in delivering the vehicle in early May
2022 and in its communication with Mrs J. Ive thought about the impact of that on Mrs J at
an already difficult time for her. Aviva tried to put things right by offering £250.00. So Ive
thought about what I wouldve found fair and reasonable if it had made no such offer. Im
satisfied that £250.00 is at least as much as I wouldve found fair and reasonable.
I dont think Mrs J accepted that offer or provided bank details for Aviva to make the
payment. As it was in a final response, I find it fair and reasonable to hold Aviva to its offer. I 
uphold the complaint in part and to direct Aviva to pay Mrs J (insofar as it hasnt already paid
her) £250.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs J (insofar as it hasnt already paid her) £250.00 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman