DRN-2914988
The complaint
Ms R complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim made on 
her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Ms R was involved in an accident with another driver on a roundabout. She told Admiral that 
there may be CCTV cameras on the roundabout, and it said this would be investigated. But 
Admiral didnt do this, and the claim was settled as split liability. Ms R thought Admiral 
should have obtained the footage and that this would have supported her version of events. 
Admiral agreed it should have obtained the CCTV footage, and it offered Ms R £50 
compensation for this error. But Ms R rejected this offer. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admirals 
failure to obtain the CCTV footage had prejudiced Ms R. So he thought it should record the 
claim as non-fault, restore Ms Rs No Claims Discount (NCD), and refund her excess and 
any consequent increase in her premium, with interest. 
Admiral replied that there was no guarantee that the CCTV footage would have shown the 
accident. And so it thought the split liability decision was the correct outcome. Admiral also 
said the other drivers insurer hadnt provided footage to show that Ms R was at fault and it 
had agreed to the 50/50 split. It said Ms R had changed her insurer and shed had half her 
excess refunded by the other drivers insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Ms R the same as someone else in her position. 
I think Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Ms R to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Ms R has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
Admiral said it made its decision after considering the conflicting versions of events and the 
damage to the two cars, which supported both accounts. Ms R said the other driver hit her 
car when he moved from the middle lane into hers. The other driver said Ms R had changed 
lanes and caused the accident. 
There were no independent witnesses. Ms R had sent in photographs taken after the 
accident, but Admiral thought these didnt support her account. So it thought a 50/50 split 
liability settlement was the correct outcome. 
But Admiral agrees that Miss R told it that CCTV evidence might be available when she 
reported the accident. The agent said she would investigate this. But Admiral said its agent 
didnt update the file and so the CCTV footage wasnt investigated or requested. 
The cameras were owned by the local authority and monitored the roundabout. It said the 
footage was deleted after 31 days, and so it was too late to obtain it. And it also said that the 
cameras may not have been pointing at the cars when the accident occurred.  
So I agree that there was no guarantee that the CCTV footage would have captured the 
accident and so supported Ms Rs version of events. But I think theres no certainty that it 
wouldnt have supported Ms R. So I think that Admirals failure to act on its undertaking to 
investigate the footage, such as looking at online images etc, and then obtaining the footage 
from the owner has prejudiced Ms Rs position. 
Admiral said the other insurer hadnt obtained the CCTV footage to counter Ms Rs 
allegations and that it had accepted the split liability outcome. But I can only consider 
Admirals actions here. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Admiral accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
A fault claim has been recorded against Ms R and her NCD was reduced. Ms R said her 
premiums with a new insurer had increased greatly at renewal. She paid half her policy 
excess as the other half was refunded by the other insurer. And Ms R had the trouble of 
obtaining evidence from the local authority to show that the cameras were on the 
roundabout. 
I think Admiral should remove records of the fault claim from any external databases where 
its been recorded and change this to non-fault (NCD allowed). I think Admiral should 
remove the effect of the claim on Ms Rs NCD and provide her with a letter stating this 
change and that the claim was incorrectly recorded as fault. 
Admiral isnt responsible for the premiums charged by another insurer. But Ms R can show 
this letter to her new insurer and ask for her premium to be recalculated. Ms R has already 
been warned by Admiral that any claim can have an impact on premiums. And I think 
Admiral should refund Ms R the other half of her policy excess, with interest, and honour its 
offer of £50 compensation for its error. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Change any records of the claim on any external databases where its been recorded 
from fault to non-fault (NCD allowed) and restore the effect the claim had on Ms Rs 
NCD.
2. Provide Ms R with a letter stating that the claim was incorrectly recorded as fault and 
stating her restored NCD entitlement.
3. Refund Ms R the remainder of her policy excess, adding interest at the rate of 8% per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
4. Honour its offer of £50 compensation for its level of service. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to take off tax from this interest. Admiral must 
give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman