DRN-3950121
The complaint
Mr S complains that We Fight Any Claim Ltd (WFAC) are charging him a fee for a payment
protection insurance (PPI) claim he said he was told was made too late.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr S instructed WFAC to pursue mis-sold PPI claims on his behalf with several
lenders. Hed three mis-sold PPI claims, two of which were with a one of his lenders Ill call
L. One of these claims was successful but in September 2018 L rejected the other claim.
Mr S said he provided all the documents WFAC asked him for so that the rejected mis-sold
PPI complaint could be considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said despite
this his complaint wasnt considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service, as they said the
complaint had been submitted too late. Mr S said WFAC then asked him to pay a fee for the
claim being successful. Mr S complained to WFAC.
WFAC said after L had rejected the mis-sold PPI claim theyd looked to refer the complaint
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They asked Mr S to provide further information, but he
didnt do this until after theyd closed his claim. And after Mr S contacted them, theyd tried to
get the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider the complaint, but they said it had been
brought too late. WFAC said in April 2019 L told them that although the mis-sold PPI claim
was rejected theyd considered Mr S claim under Plevin- undisclosed commission. And L
had awarded Mr S £139.82 for this. WFAC said as this claim was successful their fee of
£54.53 was justified.
Mr S wasnt happy with WFACs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said WFAC could charge their fee, but Mr S hadnt accepted the
compensation until March 2022 and didnt receive the payment until May 2022. He said
WFAC could ask Mr S to pay £54.53 but he shouldnt pay any collection charges that had
been applied.
Mr S didnt agree he said his mis-sold complaint should still be considered as the claim
wasnt decided on until April 2019. This meant hed six months to bring his complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman Service to consider, but WFAC didnt do this. He asked for an
ombudsman to decide.
A provisional decision was issued in November 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. Its not in
dispute that Mr S instructed WFAC to act on his behalf to see if hes been mis-sold PPI. And
I can see that WFAC submitted Mr S mis-sold PPI claim in August 2018 to L which they
rejected. But In November 2014 the Supreme Court made a decision in the case of Plevin v.
Paragon Personal Finance. They found that if a business had high levels of commission
there was a duty to disclose the commission, as it created an unfair relationship. In
response, the FCA published new rules on how to consider PPI in light of the decision, and
these rules came into force on the 29 August 2017.
So, while a claim may be rejected by a lender as it wasnt considered that the PPI had been
mis-sold, a lender still had a responsibility to consider the claim under Plevin. And L found
there had been an unfair relationship and theyd offered Mr S compensation of £139.82 for
the commission theyd received in selling the PPI policy. So, while Mr S didnt have a
successful mis-sold PPI claim he did have a successful claim under Plevin.
The agreement Mr S would have had with WFAC was on a No win No fee basis.
This means WFAC charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of
work they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for
free. Where a claim was successful, WFACs fee maybe more or less than the value of the
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. So, Im
satisfied WFAC can charge their fee for Mr S successful claim.
But the Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management
Regulator (CMR) to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10
July 2018. From this date, claims management companies (CMC), such as WFAC couldnt
legally charge a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT.
Prior to the fee cap coming into force, on 11 May 2018, the CMR issued guidance to all
CMCs This said from the date of this guidance you should inform all new or potential clients
of the upcoming change to the fees you can charge.
By charging Mr S £54.53 WFAC have asked Mr S to pay a fee of 39% inclusive of VAT. This
is above the fee cap a CMC can charge which at most should have been 24% inclusive of
VAT. So, I dont think WFAC can ask Mr S for a fee greater than £33.56.
Referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service
When L rejected Mr S claim that hed been mis-sold PPI in September 2018, Mr S would
have had six months from this date to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman
Service for them to consider whether L had acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting the
claim. The letter from L is dated 19 September 2018, so Mr S would have had up to
19 March 2019 to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I can see that WFAC explained the process to Mr S in late September 2018 and they asked
him to sign and return the required forms for them to escalate to the Financial Ombudsman
Service. I havent seen any evidence that Mr S signed and returned the forms at that time.
In February 2019 WFAC told Mr S theyd tried several times to contact him and asked for
further information so that they could refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman
Service but he hadnt responded. They said:
Your claim was rejected by your lender on 19/09/2018. The deadline for referring your claim
to the FOS is 19/03/2019.
I can see the letter explains:
We must advise you that if your claim is not referred to the FOS within 6 months 
starting on the date your claim was rejected by your lender - you will lose your right tocontinue your claim for compensation.
But I cant see that WFAC told Mr S that they were closing his claim. And WFAC have said
they received the signed Financial Ombudsman Service forms from Mr S, dated 02 March
2019 on 11 March 2019, eight days before the deadline for referring Mr S complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman Service. As I cant see that Mr S would have known WFAC had
closed his claim with them, and hed returned the form(s) within the timeframe for his
complaint to be escalated to the Financial Ombudsman Service I can understand the
distress this has caused Mr S. As WFAC didnt escalate Mr S complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service before 19 March 2019 hes now no longer able to seek consideration
of the decision made by L in rejecting his mis-sold PPI claim. I cant know what the
outcome would have been if Mr S complaint had been considered, but its clear that the loss
of this opportunity has caused Mr S some upset.
Further following Mr S successful Plevin claim he also received a letter from WFAC about
the escalation of this claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service and Mr S returned these
forms in April 2019. So, I can understand Mr S thinking that all elements of his complaint
were still being considered. And why I think Mr S didnt accept the redress that had been
offered by L. So, I agree with our investigator that it was unfair for WFAC to seek collection
of monies that Mr S hadnt yet received. But Im pleased that the redress was paid to Mr S in
May 2022.
Im currently minded to uphold this complete. And intend to ask We Fight Any Claim Ltd to:
reduce their success fee of £54.53 (39% inclusive of VAT) to no more than 24%
inclusive of VAT of Mr S redress, I calculate this to be £33.56;
remove any charges applied to Mr S account for collection fees; and
pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by failing to escalate his
mis-sold PPI claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service within the six months
timeframe.
Responses to my provisional decision
While Mr S accepted the provisional decision, he said that 
WFAC hadnt pursued him for the return of the documents to escalate his claim to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service until a flurry of activity close to the referral deadline. 
The letters hed been sent about the collection of the outstanding fee were 
intimidating and had caused him stress. 
The final letter response letter from WFAC contained inaccurate information. 
His initial contact with WFAC was in July 2018 and hed paid their success fee on 
another claim in October 2018. 
WFAC didnt ask me to consider any further evidence or comments.
I think Mr S first three points have been addressed by my provisional decision. So, I wont 
comment further. Mr S comment about the other claim wasnt a matter that Mr S had 
brought to WFAC or to this service. So, it hasnt been considered in my decision. But it has 
now been put to WFAC to consider whether the fee cap should have been applied. And a 
resolution offered by WFAC is now being considered by Mr S. If he remains unhappy with 
WFACs response he can consider referring this complaint to us. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask We Fight Any Claim Ltd to:
reduce their success fee of £54.53 (39% inclusive of VAT) to no more than 24%
inclusive of VAT of Mr S redress, I calculate this to be £33.56;
remove any charges applied to Mr S account for collection fees; and
pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by failing to escalate his
mis-sold PPI claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service within the six months
timeframe.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman