DRN-2752030
The complaint
Mrs M says Aviva Insurance Limited provided very poor service when she made a claim on
her partners motor insurance policy, leading to the loss of her car.
What happened
On 19 October 2019 Mrs M reported water ingress to the footwells in her car that she
thought was caused by damage to the car in a storm. The car was due to have unrelated
work done at local garage a month later, and Avivas engineer first saw it at that point. He
thought there was a problem with the cars soft-top roof. He said he couldnt be sure whether
it was covered by the policy (as it might be wear and tear related) so a replacement car
wasnt provided. The engineer said Mrs Ms car needed to be assessed at a dealership
garage. Shortly afterwards it was taken to garage B and Mrs M arranged her own car hire.
Aviva inspected the car at garage B on 29 November 2019 and it was left there (stored
outside) until an engineer carried out a second inspection on 3 January 2020. At that point,
the car had sustained more water damage. The engineer said it would have to be written-off,
but Mrs M believed that wouldnt have happened had the car not been left open to the
elements for over a month. She wasnt happy with Avivas final offer of £4,800 for the car or
with its offer for car hire and general compensation. Mrs M was particularly upset that when
Aviva arranged car hire for a few days, it didnt tell her when it was due to end. That led to
the hire firm advising her that it was informing the police that the hire car had been stolen.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ms complaint. She thought Aviva had shown that the
final offer it made for Mrs Ms car (plus interest) was reasonable. She noted that Aviva had
accepted that it made mistakes and could have handled Mrs Ms claim much better. So it
had refunded her hire costs (which werent payable under the policy) plus the sum her
partner was charged for hire, as part of its settlement offer. Aviva had also offered Mrs M
£700 for the loss of use of her car, which the investigator also thought was reasonable. The
compensation it offered Mrs M for distress and inconvenience was £400, plus £50 for a
delay in returning her personal possessions. The investigator thought Aviva should pay a
further £150 to Mrs M, as its final offer was made in February 2020, but it didnt try to make
the payment until August 2020, so Mrs M lost the chance to replace the car earlier.
Mrs M told the investigator that the extra compensation shed proposed wasnt enough to 
provide an overall sum that made up for Aviva having destroyed her cherished vehicle. But 
Aviva queried the basis for proposing any extra compensation. It said it had tried to make the
payment for the car in May 2020 by asking Mrs M for bank details. It had then issued a
cheque in August 2020, but Mrs M said she didnt want it and said again that shed send
Aviva bank details. Aviva didnt think shed cooperated with it about the payment.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review, and I issued a 
provisional decision, not upholding the complaint, as follows:
Ive reviewed all the documents and call recordings on the case file in order to understand
the basis for Mrs Ms complaint and the history of events since October 2019. But in this
decision, Ill concentrate on what I think are the major issues that need to be addressed.
I think the final offer Aviva made for Mrs Ms car was fair. As the car was written-off, Mrs M
was entitled to a sum that represented its market value. We think the best way to establish
market value is to use the figures set out in the national trade guides. Theyre based on
extensive nationwide research of the likely selling prices of cars that are in good retail
condition. Mrs M may have seen cars she thinks are similar to hers offered for sale at higher
prices, but we dont think adverts are persuasive, as theyre open to negotiation. As Aviva
didnt deduct the policy excess, I think the sum it paid for the car equated to £5,000.
Mrs M has made several points about why she thinks she should have been offered more for
the car. It had recently had extensive work done on the engine and had new tyres and other
fairly new parts. Mrs M had spent a considerable sum on all the work, so I understand her
frustration that the car was written-off shortly afterwards. But Mrs M was required to keep the
car in good condition, and any lack of ongoing maintenance would have reduced its market
value. Aviva would then have been justified in offering her far less for the car than it did.
Mrs M was further distressed by the cars loss because it was bought for her as a gift and it
was of great sentimental value, as well as being a treasured vehicle because of the way it
looked. Consumers often have a great attachment to a particular car, but unfortunately, if a
car is written-off, it has to be valued objectively, in line with similar vehicles. I think Aviva did
that, so although I sympathise with Mrs Ms distress, I cant say that Aviva should have paid
Mrs M more for the car than it did.
One of the main reasons Mrs M is upset about the situation is that she thinks the car
wouldnt have been written-off had Aviva not left it at garage B for so long, where it
deteriorated rapidly through further water damage. But Mrs M originally told Aviva that water
had collected in the cars footwells and that some electronic issues with it were apparent.
Garage B confirmed early on that a unit in one of the footwells controlled some of the cars
electronic functions. It said the unit could be replaced, but that fitting a new unit wouldnt
mean the electronic problems wouldnt recur. Avivas engineers agreed that once water gets
into a cars electrical systems, failures may recur indefinitely.
I think the main issue was how the water got inside the car in the first place. Avivas engineer
noted that the cars roof had separated from the retaining clips. He said the clips were brittle
and had snapped, which he said was an age-related issue, and thats how water got into the
car. A note on the file says an engineer from garage B agreed that the clips had failed,
although Mrs M said garage B told her the cause of the damage was external. She also
said there was a warranty issue with soft-top covers. That issue wasnt pursued - but
warranty failures wouldnt be covered by the policy anyway.
In my opinion, even if there was storm damage to the car (and Avivas engineer didnt think
there was) it seems there was also evidence of a wear and tear issue. But as Aviva agreed
to deal with the claim, I think it ceased to matter what the cause of the damage was. Either
way, a new roof was required, as well as a new unit for the footwell, plus repairs to the
original water damage. I think that would have been the case even if the car had sustained
no further damage at garage Bs premises. Avivas engineer said the cost of a new soft-top
roof (from the manufacturer) meant the car was beyond economic repair.
Mrs M has made it clear that nothing could have compensated her for the loss of the car,
and I understand how distressing it must have been for her to be told by garage B how much
the car was deteriorating whilst it was left there. But as far as I can see, the evidence
suggests that once water had first entered the car and damaged the cars electronic
systems, the car was unlikely to have been reliable again, and would have been written-off,
even if further damage to it had been prevented.Aviva accepted that it had provided very poor service to Mrs M overall. Theres evidence that
its claims team failed to respond to garage B as well as to Mrs M. I cant see any explanation
for that on the file, and I think it must have been very frustrating for Mrs M to be kept in the
dark about what was happening when she was so worried about the cars condition.
In trying to put matters right, apart from paying for the car, plus interest, Aviva refunded the
cost of Mrs Ms car hire, plus the sum her partner was charged for hire. I think these
payments, plus the £700 loss of use offer it made, amounted to a reasonable attempt to
settle the matter, when added to its offer of compensation for distress and inconvenience.
In my opinion, Mrs M had to cope with a substantial amount of distress and inconvenience
throughout the claims-handling process. That included the poor inspection arrangements
made by Aviva initially and the threat from the hire-car firm of reporting Mrs M to the police,
which was the result of Avivas poor communication with it and Mrs M. And it seems Mrs M
was never told why the car was left at garage B for so long, despite that issue having caused
her great distress. There were problems in getting Mrs Ms personal possessions back from
the car in an efficient way - and one item went missing. Aviva paid £50 for the delay and
refunded the cost of the missing item. Taking that into account, I think Avivas offer of £400
was sufficient and is in line with the sum we would have required it to pay otherwise.
The investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably overall, but that it should pay Mrs M an
extra £150 compensation, as in her view it delayed until August 2020 in paying the sum it
had agreed to pay Mrs M in February 2020. At that point, Mrs M was still disputing the sum
on offer for the car and the compensation, but Avivas overall offer wasnt far below the sum
she wanted. I think Mrs M could have accepted the proposed payment as an interim offer.
Aviva said it would make the payment without prejudice - although it isnt clear whether it
fully explained that to Mrs M at the time.
I dont agree that Aviva didnt try to make a payment to Mrs M after that until August 2020.
As far as I can see, it agreed to pay her by bank transfer on 27 May 2020. It asked for bank
details, which it seems she didnt supply. And in June 2020 Aviva offered to make the
payment to Mrs M again. In August 2020, as Aviva still didnt have any bank details, it issued
a cheque, which had to be cancelled, as Mrs M wouldnt accept it. Aviva asked her again for
bank details in August 2020, but it wasnt able to make the payment until October 2020.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Aviva should be required to pay any extra
compensation. I dont think its possible to compensate Mrs M fully for the distress she feels
at the loss of her cherished car anyway. But in my opinion, Aviva offered her a substantial
overall settlement sum. As I think the overall sum offered by Aviva shows it made a
reasonable attempt to put matters right, Im minded not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional view. Aviva didnt do so. Mrs M said Id 
failed to note that garage B suspected storm damage was the cause of the issue with the 
cars roof. She said if the car had been inspected earlier by Aviva, the repairs needed would 
have been less severe. And she said she was astonished that I thought it was acceptable 
that she was told shed be reported to the police for the theft of the hire car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said that Mrs M had faced a substantial amount of distress and 
inconvenience. And I said part of that was the threat by the hire company to report her to the police  which resulted from Avivas poor communication.  I dont think that was acceptable - 
but as I said in the provisional decision, in my opinion Aviva paid compensation for it as part 
of its overall settlement of Mrs Ms complaint.
I addressed Mrs Ms concerns about the delay in Avivas inspection and garage Bs view of 
the cause of the damage to the roof in my provisional findings. I noted that although Mrs M 
was told by garage B that it thought storm damage caused the problem, the file shows that it 
also agreed that the roofs retaining clips had failed  which is a wear and tear issue. I said 
the cause of the damage ceased to matter anyway, as Aviva agreed to deal with it. And I 
said I thought the evidence showed that the car would have been written-off even if no 
further damage had been sustained at garage Bs premises  which meant Avivas delay in 
inspecting the car wasnt relevant. 
As Mrs M hasnt provided any new information, although I understand why shes so 
distressed about the loss of her car, I remain of the view that Aviva acted reasonably overall 
in dealing with the claim. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman