DRN-2191079
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) declined their claim for 
damage to their swimming pool.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K had home insurance, including buildings and contents, with esure. The 
policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr K throughout my decision.
Mr K made a claim under his policy after a tree in his garden fell and damaged the area 
around his swimming pool. esure sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. It agreed to 
cover the cost of removing the tree and arranged for a surveyor to assess any damage to 
the swimming pool and fixed fountain.
The surveyor reported that the fountain had rotated, and the tree was resting on it and the 
fence. Though the surveyor reported that the fence was already corroded, the report 
suggested that the fence might be included in the claim. However, no damage to the 
fountain or surrounding area was attributed to the fallen tree.
Mr K complained to esure. He thought it had taken a long time to reach this conclusion and 
during that time the pool had become damaged further. He didnt think the report was 
prepared by an independent surveyor, so he arranged for another surveyor to assess the 
damage.
The new report said that there was evidence of damage to the fence, fountain and 
surrounding paving, caused by the fallen tree. The surveyor also noted damage to the pools 
mosaic tiles on the steps and marks on the walls at the upper edge. 
Mr K provided esure with a quote for about £30,000 to complete all the repairs. esure agreed 
to cover the fence, and the fountain if Mr K had it tested and provided evidence that the 
feature was damaged. Mr K remained unhappy with esures decision, especially as the 
surveyor he employed had reported significantly more damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought it was fair that esure paid to remove 
the tree and, because it offered to cover the fountain if Mr K provided evidence to confirm 
the tree had caused the damage, he didnt think it was fair to say esure declined the claim in 
full. Our investigator thought the expert reports, overall, gave more weight to esures view 
that the swimming pool was already damaged due to wear and tear and that there was 
nothing to indicate the fallen tree had caused additional damage. 
Mr K didnt agree. He remained of the opinion that esure was trying to avoid paying for 
repairs to his swimming pool which he thinks the fallen tree damaged.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mr K will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint.
Both Mr K and esure are aware of the circumstances, so I dont think theres any real benefit 
in going into too much detail about each point. Instead, Ill explain why Ive reached my 
decision, referencing key points where appropriate.
The key issue of complaint here is that Mr K doesnt think esure has properly assessed the 
damage caused by the fallen tree and, therefore, it hasnt accepted his claim in full. 
Mr Ks policy states:
Falling trees or branches
What is covered?
We will pay for loss of or damage to Your Buildings and Contents as a result of falling trees 
or branches.
What is not covered?
We will not pay for loss or damage where the Buildings or Contents are not damaged
We will not pay for the removal of trees or branches where the Buildings or Contents 
are not damaged.
Im satisfied that the fallen tree was covered under the policy, but only if damage was 
caused. As esure covered the cost of removal, it appears to me that it must also have 
accepted the tree had caused damage to Mr Ks property. 
Mr Ks claim was for the fence, fountain, paving and swimming pool. Of these, esure 
accepted that damage was caused to the fence, and possibly the fountain.  The policy 
defines the building/home as:
Buildings/Home
also includes any swimming pools, hard tennis courts, terraces, patios, driveways, 
footpaths, walls, gates, hedges and fences all within the same site at the insured address 
shown on Your Schedule.
As esure accepted that the tree damaged the fence, and the fence is covered under the 
policy, Im satisfied that paying for the tree removal means esure has met the terms of the 
policy. It doesnt mean that esure should necessarily be held responsible for any further 
damage.
Briefly, Mr K complained that esure hadnt covered the fence repair. However, I have since 
seen evidence that shows esure offered to pay for the fence repairs. This decision was 
influenced by the surveyor acting on its behalf and supported by Mr Ks surveyor. Both 
surveyors reported that the tree was resting on the fence and it seems the damage was 
caused when removing the tree. While theres no agreement about the extent of damage 
caused directly by the tree, I think its clear that theres a general acceptance that cover is 
warranted. Mr Ks surveyor reported that the fence was damaged due to the weight of the 
tree. esures surveyor states that the fence was already corroded and wouldve needed 
replacing. That might be true, but it doesnt change the fact that a mature tree fell onto it, the 
photos show the tree resting on the fence, and I think its fair to assume that it will have been 
damaged in the process. So, esure offered to cover the fence and Im satisfied that it did so 
in line with the policy. I dont think any more action is needed here.The next issue it that of the statue which houses the fountain pipework. Mr Ks surveyor says 
it was damaged because the tree fell onto it. esure agrees the fountain moved but couldnt 
see evidence of damage. Again, Ive looked at the photos and reports provided. The photos 
clearly show the fountain with the pipe on the outside. The fountain is facing slightly to the 
side of the pool and it certainly appears to have moved from a different original position. 
Both reports say the fountain had rotated, so esure and Mr K are in agreement here. The 
slight difference in reports is that one says theres no evidence of damage and the other 
says theres no evidence of damage but its likely that the fountain pipe joints will have been 
strained during the movement. 
Both surveyors are qualified to a similar level and experts in their field, so Im confident that I 
can rely on what they say. I dont think the surveyors have disagreed, but I do think Mr Ks 
surveyor has taken his observation a little further by saying its likely the fountain pipe will 
have been strained by the rotation. I think thats a reasonable comment - a mature tree fell 
onto it so its quite possible that it will have damaged the pipe. That said, it is still only a 
possibility rather than a certainty and that ties in with what esure offered  to cover the 
fountain if, when tested, it becomes apparent that it is damaged. I think what esure has 
offered is fair and I see no reason to ask it to do any more in respect of this point.
Mr K wants esure to cover the cost of damaged paving, but esure doesnt think the paving 
was damaged by the tree. The surveyors dont agree on this point. Mr Ks surveyor says the 
paving was damaged directly under the fountain, so it was caused by the tree. esures 
surveyor thinks the paving was sloping towards the pool all around due to more general 
wear and tear, which isnt covered under the policy. My first thought is that if a tree hits the 
ground then its likely to cause some damage to the paving. But the tree hit the fountain, not 
the paving, and it seems unlikely that the fountain wouldve remained intact if the impact was 
enough to have caused damage to the paving beneath it. Having looked at the photos and 
descriptions in both reports, it seems that the tree landed on the fountain, causing it to twist 
round, and the tree then rested on the fence. Based on the report, and the general 
appearance of the paving, esure didnt think the damage was caused directly by the fallen 
tree. It declined the claim for the paving under the policy exclusion of lack of maintenance 
and general wear and tear, and it explained that to Mr K. On balance, I think its unlikely that 
the paving was damaged by the fallen tree, so Im satisfied that it was fair for esure to 
decline this part of the claim.
Mr K provided a quote for the repairs to his swimming pool. This included a provisional 
amount to cover the cost of, essentially, installing a new pool if the existing one had been 
damaged beyond what was visible. Both surveyors reported that the pool was damaged 
around the steps and top of the wall, specifically that mosaic tiles were missing. The steps 
are at the opposite end of the pool to where the tree landed. Neither surveyor stated 
categorically that the tree caused any damage to the pool itself. Indeed, Mr Ks surveyor said 
the concrete walling was not damaged. I accept that at this point no one can be certain 
whether there is damage which isnt visible, but the current position is that theres no 
evidence of damage to the pool, caused by the fallen tree, which would be covered under 
the policy.
esures surveyor reported the damage to the pool tiles was due to wear and tear and lack of 
maintenance. Mr Ks surveyor reported that when repairs are done, it may become evident 
that theres damage but other causes would need to be ruled out. The policy says:
General exclusions which apply to this policy
We will not pay for loss, damage or any liability resulting directly or indirectly from:
Wear and tear
wear and tearloss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance
loss or damage that happens gradually over time (for example, loss or damage 
resulting from wet rot or dry rot, rusting, corrosion, the affects of light or the 
atmosphere, damp, condensation, fading, moths, vermin, birds, insects, fungi or 
other gradual deterioration).
So, having thought about the evidence above, I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to 
decline the claim for the swimming pool under the policy exclusions of lack of maintenance 
and wear and tear. 
I know Mr K thinks esure deliberately delayed doing anything about his claim, though esure 
has explained that most of the delays were reasonable. This matter has taken a long time to 
reach this point, and I can understand that Mr K and his family will have been frustrated that 
they couldnt use the pool during summer months. Both Mr K and esure are aware of the 
delays in communication and obtaining surveyor reports so I wont go into detail here. 
However, Ive thought carefully about whether, overall, esure has delayed Mr Ks claim. I 
dont think it has. There have been delays on both sides, each waiting for the other to 
provide information. While there may have been some misunderstanding about which party 
was waiting for information from the other  for example esure waited for an expert report 
from Mr K which he didnt think it was waiting for, and Mr K waited for responses to his 
emails - I cant reasonably hold esure responsible for the overall delay. Claims of this nature 
and value take time to conclude and I havent seen anything which makes me think esure 
deliberately delayed consideration of the claim.  
In summary, Im satisfied that esure fairly offered to cover the fountain and fence on receipt 
of evidence of damage. As neither of the reports states conclusively that the swimming pool 
was damaged by the tree, and theres insufficient evidence to show that the paving was 
directly affected, I think esures decision to decline the claim based on the policy exclusions 
is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman