DRN-3940166
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wont carry out all the 
repairs to their car following a claim made on their motor insurance policy. They are also 
unhappy that they were given incorrect information about their courtesy car entitlement. Mr H 
is a named driver on Mrs Hs policy.
What happened
The rear of Mrs Hs car was damaged in an incident, and she made a claim to Admiral. 
Admiral had the car repaired with the exception of the motor for the tailgate. It said this had 
failed due to wear and tear and wasnt covered by the policy. It said there was evidence of 
rust, and the part was found to be sitting in a puddle of water which had caused it to seize. 
Admiral agreed that it had given Mr H incorrect information about how long he could keep 
the courtesy car. And it apologised for this and for not responding to his emails. Mr H was 
unhappy about the decision about the tailgate and asked for evidence to show that the fault 
was due to wear and tear. He said the boot worked fine before the incident.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admirals 
apology for the courtesy car issue wasnt sufficient and that it should pay Mrs H £75 
compensation for her trouble and upset. And she thought Admiral hadnt justified its decision 
not to repair the tailgate motor. And so she thought it should now pay to repair this. 
Admiral replied that it agreed to pay the compensation. Its engineer agreed that the part 
wasnt sat in three inches of water, as alleged, but it was corroded, and this had developed 
over time. He said the effect of moisture on an uninsulated electrical component should be 
considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has agreed to pay Mrs H £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the 
misinformation it provided about the courtesy car. Im satisfied that this is in keeping with our 
published guidance. And so I wont consider this point further. 
But I will consider the claim for damage to the tailgate motor. The adjudicator has already 
explained that this service does not assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be 
caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Admirals engineer said the tailgate motor wouldnt be covered as it was damaged due to 
wear and tear. The evidence he firstly relied on was a report from the approved garage that 
the motor was sat in three inches of water and was completely rusted. It said the rust had 
developed over a long time and provided images showing the casing soaked in water. 
I havent seen images to show that it was sat in three inches of water. Mr H provided images 
to show that this wasnt possible as the maximum depth was half an inch. 
Admirals engineer later conceded that the three inches was over-stated and was due to 
mis-reading a hand-written note. He also conceded that the boot was dry when Mr H 
photographed it. But he thought there must have been moisture present at some time to 
cause the corrosion. And he thought this had caused the part to fail as the damage to the 
tailgate was superficial. 
Ive looked at the repairers report. He ran diagnostics for the car and found that the tailgate 
control module had an open circuit and an internal electrical fault that had caused it to 
malfunction. Admiral had an electrical engineer look at the part and his report said that the 
motor was sat in water and needed replacing. 
But whilst the part may have had surface corrosion, I havent seen that this means that the 
part wasnt working due to corrosion. Mr H said the motor was working before the incident. 
And he provided details of witnesses who could attest that they saw this on the day. But I 
cant see that Admiral obtained statements from them. 
So I cant say whether the impact caused the part to stop working or whether this was due to 
wear and tear. And I therefore think Admiral hasnt justified its decision not to include this 
repair as part of the claim. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to cover the costs of the repairs to the tailgate 
motor, and to pay Mrs H £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it 
providing her with incorrect information. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman