DRN-2877396
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way she was treated when she visited a branch of Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
On 3 March 2020 Miss M visited a branch of Nationwide to make an international transfer of 
£2,250 to her nephew to pay for her sisters medical bills abroad. She was taken in to a room 
to discuss the transfer. The staff member serving Miss M wasnt happy to make the transfer 
and a manager was called. The manager asked to see a medical bill before making the 
transfer, which Miss M didnt have available in branch. Miss M then asked to withdraw the 
funds in cash but was told she could only withdraw £500 at the counter in branch and £500 
from a cash machine, but she could take out a cheque for the whole amount  which is what 
Miss M did. 
What Miss M says
Miss M believes that when she visited the Nationwide branch she was treated unfairly and 
was unfairly denied access to her own money. Miss M says that the decision not to allow the 
transfer or full cash withdrawal was because of her race and an assumption that she was 
vulnerable and gullible. She also feels that Nationwide staff assumed she was having 
liaisons with a man she met on social media or had received her money by illegal means, 
which she finds deeply insulting. 
Miss M has explained shed previously transferred £2,400 to her nephew in February 2020. 
What Nationwide say
Nationwide says it takes the security of its members and their accounts seriously and will 
always try to protect them from scams and fraudulent transactions. It provided Miss M with a 
statement from the member of staff who served her in branch. The statement referred to the 
fact that as Miss M was registered for online banking, she was offered other methods of 
payment. The staff member explained there were a number of areas of concern that led her 
and her manager to decide not to make the payment without seeing a medical bill. These 
factors included the fact Miss M said she was transferring funds to pay he sisters medical 
bills but was paying a male, that Miss M had received payment details via social media and 
hadnt spoken to her sister and that Miss M had previously made another payment to the 
same account and for the same purpose. Miss M had then asked to withdraw cash to 
transfer funds through a money transfer company but was advised she couldnt take out the 
full amount in cash but could take out a cheque. 
Nationwide agreed to refund Miss Ms parking charge of £6.50 for her visit to branch. 
Our investigation so far
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide acted unreasonably. It asked probing questions 
which related to the nature of the transaction Miss M wished to make rather than personal 
factors in order to protect Miss M from possible financial harm. The investigator explained 
that she would expect questions to be asked when a large sum of money is being 
transferred abroad and discussed the fact that fraudsters can send emails that appear to be 
from family members requesting that payments be made. She also said that Nationwide 
hadnt accused Miss M of any wrong doing and had offered Miss M alternative methods of 
making the payment. 
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She said she was racially profiled when she went 
into the Nationwide branch. She also said that she doesnt find men on social media and 
send money abroad to them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of this complaint is Miss Ms concern that the way she was treated in branch 
was unfair and unreasonable and she was the subject of racial profiling. I can understand 
why she would find this so upsetting but after careful consideration Im satisfied that 
Nationwide acted as it did to protect Miss Ms funds. 
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that at the time of 
Miss Ms payment request Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im satisfied that in light of these obligations Nationwide acted reasonably in asking Miss M 
probing questions about her payment request and in asking her for evidence. Nationwide 
were concerned that Miss M may be a victim of a scam and I believe it took appropriate 
steps for this reason. Im also satisfied that Nationwide would have taken the same steps in 
respect of any customer who was asking to make a similar payment. I say this because 
Nationwide will have been aware of a number of factors about Miss Ms payment request 
that could indicate she was at risk of financial harm (as they are common features of scams). 
These include:
- The fact she was making an international transfer
- The fact the payment request was for a larger than normal sum
- The fact shed received a payment request via social media/email
- The fact that scammers often use emotional stories like illness to trick people into 
transferring funds to an account that is controlled by them
- The fact that Miss M was asking to make a second payment to the same payee and 
for the same reason in a relatively short space of time. Sadly, anyone can be scammed. None of the above scam concerns relate to Miss M 
personally but to the nature of her payment request. 
Nationwide also acted in accordance with its terms and conditions, which apply to all 
account holders, and say,
When we can refuse to act on your instructions
8. We may refuse to make a payment or allow a cash withdrawal (and we wont be 
responsible for any loss to you) if:
e) we reasonably suspect illegal or fraudulent activity;
Fraudulent activity covers a customer being the victim of fraud as well as other types of 
fraudulent activity and I cant see that there was any suggestion by Nationwide that Miss M 
had received funds illegally.
Overall, I dont consider Nationwide asked questions or for evidence before making the 
transfer because of Miss Ms race or any other characteristic of hers, or that she was treated 
less favourably than anyone else. I consider that Nationwide acted in her best interest and 
because of its obligation to protect her. Its possible Nationwide could have done more to 
explain to Miss M why it was asking for evidence though.
Turning to Nationwides decision not to allow Miss M to withdraw £2,250 in cash on 3 March 
2020 I note the terms and conditions of Miss Ms account say,
18. We have limits that apply to payments you can make from your account, and to the 
amount of money you can take out of your account at cash machines or in branch. 
The terms and conditions dont set out the limits, as they vary between accounts, but Ive 
asked Nationwide to provide evidence of the limits that applied to Miss Ms account at the 
time. This evidence shows that Nationwide correctly applied its limits when it told Miss M she 
could withdraw £500 in branch and £500 from a cash machine. So I consider Nationwide 
acted reasonably in not allowing Miss M to exceed these limits. Nationwide went on to offer 
Miss M an alternative method of withdrawing her funds  a cheque. I appreciate this was 
less convenient to Miss M but it did mean she was able to withdraw the funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman