DRN-3186807
The complaint
Mrs M, through a claims management company (CMC) has complained that Countrywide 
Assurance Plc (Countrywide) allowed the transfer of her pension when it shouldnt have 
done. She has said Countrywide failed to carry out the proper due diligence and had it done 
so she wouldnt have transferred the pension.
What happened
Mrs M held a personal pension with Countrywide. In 2015 she was cold called by a firm 
called Capital Facts Limited offering her a free review of her pensions. On 23 March 2015 
Capital Facts contacted Countrywide to request information on Mrs Ms pensions. As Capital 
facts wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Countrywide initially 
refused to provide this information. It wrote to Mrs M to explain Capital Facts wasnt 
authorised and what this meant for her. It urged her to take advice from an FCA authorised 
firm before deciding to transfer her pensions. It also stated that if she still wanted to continue 
with Capital Facts she had to provide written confirmation to Countrywide of this.
The CMC has said that Mrs M was subsequently visited at her home on a number of 
occasions by a representative of Capital Facts or First Pension Review Services (FRPS) 
(both these firms were unregulated at the time but were linked in that they appear to have 
been controlled by the same people). Its said Mrs M was advised by this unregulated 
adviser that she should consolidate the pension she held with Countrywide along with 
another one held with a different provider. She was told that by doing this and transferring 
her pensions to the Optimus Retirement Benefit Fund (the scheme) which was a Qualifying 
Regulated Overseas Transfer Scheme (QROPS), she would make significantly more in the 
fund than if she left her pensions where they were. She says she was also told she would be 
able to retire at the age of 60 without having to make any further contributions to the plans 
and that she would be able to access her tax free cash sum when she turned 55 (in one 
years time) which she assumed was not possible without transferring the pensions.
Countrywide sent a transfer pack to Capital Facts on 11 November 2015. The documents 
included the scorpion pension scam warning leaflet.
The relevant forms were returned to Countrywide in December 2015 by Optimus Pension 
Administrators Limited (OPAL) the scheme managers, based in the Isle of Man. These 
confirmed the transfer of Mrs Ms transfer to the QROPS.
In January 2016 Mrs M called Countrywide to explain she was having second thoughts 
about the transfer and needed some queries answered. She asked Countrywide to put the 
transfer on hold, which it did. On 16 March 2016 Mrs M called Countrywide again to explain 
she was now satisfied with the information she had been given and wanted to proceed again 
with the transfer.
On 21 April 2016 Countrywide confirmed the transfer had been completed.
Mrs M was 56 at the time of the transfer. She was, and remains, a resident in the UK.
Mrs Ms CMC has said, in brief, that Countrywide didnt pick up on, and tell Mrs M about, a 
number of warning signs relating to her transfer. These included the initial cold call that 
prompted the transfer in the first place, the presence of unregulated entities in the transfer 
process, and the promotion of unrealistic investment returns. Mrs Ms representatives 
pointed to guidance published by The Pensions Regulator to support their case. This 
guidance, typically referred to as the scorpion guidance, meant transferring schemes were 
expected (amongst other things) to include an anti-scam insert when sending a member 
their transfer papers. 
Countrywide didnt feel it could uphold Mrs Ms complaint, so it was referred to us. It was 
assessed by one of our investigators who also felt the complaint couldnt be upheld. In brief 
while he found that there were failings on the part of Countrywide in its due diligence 
processes before completing the transfer he didnt think this would have caused Mrs M to 
not continue with the transfer. This was mainly because she was also transferring another 
pension to the same scheme at the same time. And the provider of that pension had 
conducted the required due diligence and Mrs M still proceeded with the transfer.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
What principals, rules and guidance apply to this complaint?
As Mrs Ms policy was a personal pension, Countrywide was regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA, preceded by the FSA) in its operation. Both The Pensions 
Regulator (TPR) and FSA had issued a number of warnings on their websites during 2011 
and 2012 about the dangers of pension liberation  where consumers might be cold-called 
by unregulated advisers and encouraged to release cash from their pensions ahead of their 
intended retirement age. Liberation, in particular, could result in adverse tax charges being 
levied against the consumer (and in some cases their ceding scheme) by HMRC. 
As a result, Countrywide would (or should) have been aware that there was a problem in the 
industry by February 2013, when TPR published new guidance (the Scorpion campaign) 
including an Action Pack for ceding schemes to carry out due diligence on pension transfers.
Although this Scorpion guidance had been directed at the occupational schemes which TPR 
regulates, it was endorsed by the FSA at the time  and it was the only such guidance until 
March 2015 when a broader piece of guidance initiated by the whole industry (TPR and FCA 
regulated firms) was published: the Pension Scams Industry Group (PSIG) Code of Practice 
(the Code). As such I consider Countrywide should already have been familiar with using 
the Scorpion guidance over the several years prior to Mrs Ms transfer.
The Scorpion guidance didnt change significantly in the interim, apart from an update in July 
2014 making clear that there was a wider range of scams than just pension liberation. So, 
scams started to be used in the branding. This meant that a ceding scheme that might have 
been reasonably confident that there wasnt a risk of liberation (and the associated tax 
charges), might not have been as sure that there was no risk of a scam. 
The definition of a pension scam has been expanded in more recent years, but TPR broadly 
said in a press release at that time that this was the risk of consumers being scammed into moving their retirement savings into unregulated high-risk or bogus investments that 
could result in them losing their entire pension pot. It said these were often overseas and 
unregulated. Home visits from introducers, offers of free pension reviews, claims about 
legal loopholes and unusual investments like overseas property, storage units or biofuels 
are all used to fool members into thinking theyre being offered a legitimate pension transfer.
Im not going to set out the March 2015 update to TPRs Action Pack or Version 1 of the 
Code (March 2015) in full detail here as both parties should have copies of these. The Code 
stated that it didnt override existing regulatory guidance, but as its a relevant indication of 
good industry practice at the relevant time, Im going to take it into account alongside the 
Action Pack. The key points of each are set out below:
The Code made clear that A strong first signal of [a scam] would be a letter of 
authority requesting a company not authorised by FCA to obtain the required pension 
information; e.g. a transfer value, etc. Ive taken this into account.
Both the Action Pack and the Code said that a 2-page leaflet (or insert) produced by 
the Pensions Advisory Service (TPAS) should be sent directly to the policyholders 
home address whenever a transfer pack was requested, even by their 
representative. Ive also taken this into account. 
The Action Pack included a checklist for businesses to follow if a policyholder was 
asking for a transfer, involving questions of the policyholder and receiving scheme. 
All the questions had equal prominence in the checklist. 
As this was guidance, and each transfer presents different risks, its reasonable to 
say businesses had some discretion as to how much of the checklist to complete 
before being satisfied that the scam risk was sufficiently low to proceed.  
The Code contained an initial analysis stage to better assist businesses in 
determining how far their enquiries should go. Two ways of fast tracking a transfer in 
this initial stage were where the receiving scheme was a member of an accepted 
club or group, or had been whitelisted after prior investigation.
Im not persuaded there are grounds here for a transfer to have been fast-tracked for 
either of those reasons. In particular the risk of a scam inherent in a QROPS 
depends largely on what investments the consumer is making, so further questioning 
about whether there were warning signs in those investments would always have 
been needed.
Beyond this, it was also possible under the Code for a transfer to have been fast-
tracked if it passed some initial consumer questions. These addressed the risk of 
liberation as well as scams, so as there is no issue in this complaint of Mrs M 
receiving an incentive or accessing their pension early, Ive focused on the remaining 
initial questions. These were broadly the same in part of the checklist so Ill 
summarise the key issues:
- Did the consumer receive an unsolicited offer of a pension review or investment 
opportunity by cold call, email or text?
- Were they told they could obtain a higher tax-free cash sum by transferring? 
(This question is only present in the Code)
- Were they promised a specific or guaranteed rate of return, particularly over 
8%pa? (The Checklist also highlights where the marketing material alludes to 
new or unusual investment techniques)
- Did the investments marketing or discussions they had involve transferring funds 
overseas?
A pictorial at the start of the Action Pack also included two further warning signs to 
look out for:
- Putting the transfer proceeds into a single investment: In most circumstances, 
financial advisers will suggest diversification of assets. (This issue is not 
highlighted in the Code)
- Paperwork delivered to the consumer by courier that required an immediate signature. (This is a question suggested at a later stage in the Code, but not one 
of the initial analysis questions)
I think its fair to say that Countrywide should have asked Mrs M the first set of 
questions, and also kept an eye out for indications of the further warning signs Ive 
given above, either in the transfer request itself or from Mrs Ms responses to those 
questions. If this flagged up concerns about Mrs Ms transfer, the Code clearly 
indicates that further due diligence would need to be carried out into the receiving 
scheme and what Mrs M had been told about that scheme.
I wont set out all of those further steps here, but this is an indication of where more 
of the questions in the TPR checklist would need to have been asked, in proportion 
to the risk present in the transfer request. PSIG itself said the further questions it then 
provided in the Code were examples, alternatives could be used and there is 
flexibility in the evidence you require. Ill set out in my findings below what further 
enquiries I think were required, should that have become necessary.
If Countrywide considered there were material risks of a scam at the conclusion of its 
enquiries, the Action Pack expected it to contact the member to establish whether 
they understand the type of scheme theyll be transferring to and send them the 
pension scams booklet. And (for example) to direct them to TPAS to discuss the 
potential consequences of the transfer, including tax repercussions
The scams booklet refers to a 7-page TPAS document aimed at consumers, which 
included the same pictorial with warning signs of scams; an example of an overseas 
property scam in a UK-based pension scheme; links to FCA online material about 
scams and how to check if an adviser was regulated in the UK; and how to contact 
TPAS for guidance. If Im persuaded that Countrywide should have made further 
contact with Mrs M, Im mindful that there are different ways of meeting the same 
guidance  but I can look to the booklet as an indication of the type of message 
Countrywide should have been conveying to Mrs M.
The Code anticipated that some consumers might wish to transfer despite contact 
from their provider to establish their understanding. In that event it suggested 
providersshould ensure that the discharge forms that the member has signed are 
suitably robust to reduce risk
In considering what Countrywide should have done above and in my findings below, Ive 
borne in mind that it was bound to follow the ever-present Principles and Rules set out by 
the FSA/FCA. These include that it must take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively with adequate risk management systems; and must pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Did Countrywide follow the guidance above
Countrywide hasnt confirmed in any of its correspondence that it checked whether the 
scheme was included in HMRCs list of recognised overseas pensions schemes. But I am 
aware that had it done so the scheme would have been on the list at the time.
By the time of Mrs Ms transfer TPR had said it expected the Scorpion leaflet to be sent to 
every customer requesting a transfer, with their transfer pack. As noted above Countrywide 
did send out the Scorpion leaflet but it sent it to Capital Facts when in fact it should have 
been sent directly to Mrs M and no reliance can be placed on the unregulated firm then 
passing the information leaflet on to Mrs M.
It is relevant to note however that the primary purpose of the leaflet was to warn Mrs M 
about the wider risk of pension liberations or scams not specifically to question why she was 
moving her whole pension abroad. The March 2015 version of the leaflet contained the 
following main messages:Scammers would try to flatter tempt and pressure you into transferring your pension 
fund into an investment with guaranteed returns.
The process would begin with a cold call, text message or knock at the door, often 
offering a pension review or chance to make a one-off investment opportunity.
Transfer of funds overseas, proposals to put money in a single investment (returning 
more that 8%pa) and being asked to return documents immediately by courier were 
all warning signs.
The aim of the leaflet was that if some of the warning signs echoed with Mrs M she would 
have called the helpline operated by the Pensions Advisory Service (TPAS) or visited TPRs 
website where she would have been directed to TPAS or warned that she should get 
independent UK regulated advice.
Mrs M was contacted by cold call offering high investment returns and consolidation. So its 
possible the leaflet, had she seen it, would have resonated with her. But whether it would 
have changed her mind about transferring is dealt with below.
Nevertheless, in this regard Countrywide failed to carry out what TPR had expected it to do.
However, as mentioned above sending the leaflet was not the only action Countrywide 
should have taken at this time. 
While there is currently no clear evidence that pension liberation or a scam was specifically 
involved in Mrs Ms case  as the scheme is still running and I have seen the scheme 
statements which show the value of the fund being in the region of how much was 
transferred in, it is important to say that some typical warning signs of a pension liberation 
(such as cold calling, funds being moved off shore, non standard investments and an 
absence of proper advice) are similar to scams. But it wasnt the ceding schemes role to 
categorically determine whether a scam was actually taking place.
TPR guidance makes it clear that the ceding schemes role was to assess whether warning 
signs of a pension liberation or scam were present. And if they were to carry out further 
investigations to determine whether Mrs M, in this case, was aware of the inherent risks of 
transferring her pension to the type of scheme involved. This applied whether or not in the 
future the scheme turned out to be a liberation or a scam.
In the Action pack it published in March 2015 TPR said that ceding schemes should use the 
checklist it provided if any member asked to transfer. It said answering yes to any of the 
checklist questions individually didnt necessarily indicate a pension scam but if several 
features were present there may be cause for concern.
In my view, transferring to a QROPS is arguably a significant warning sign. It is unusual for a 
consumer to transfer their pension overseas when they remain a UK resident. So this would 
have always warranted further investigation by Countrywide in this case to establish if Mrs M 
had reasons for transferring their whole pension overseas which perhaps then made it less 
likely to be at risk of a scam.
So in relation to TPR guidance at this time I am not satisfied Countrywide followed it or 
carried out the necessary due diligence it was encouraged to do.
In regard to the Code Countrywide hasnt made any mention of following it alongside TRP 
guidance. It would seem that Countrywide relied on the warnings provided in the scorpion 
factsheet sent to the unregulated firm involved. In my view, this was a failing. For the reasons explained above, the Code and the scorpion guidance shouldve been followed 
together. The Code would have assisted Countrywide in how to go about checking whether 
Mrs M was at risk of a scam, which is what the Scorpion guidance was strongly encouraging 
it to do. This would have been good practice and in line with FCA Principles to pay due 
regard to the interests of customers and treat them fairly. Furthermore, the fact Mrs M was 
transferring her pension overseas should have raised a red flag for Countrywide, especially 
as Mrs M wasnt moving abroad herself.
Would this have made a difference?
However, despite these failings, if Countrywide had done all it was required to do I think Mrs 
M would not have taken any different action. I think its more likely than not she would still 
have gone ahead with the transfer to the QROPS. 
I say this because, as previously mentioned, Mrs M was also transferring another pension 
scheme she held with a different provider to the same QROPS. This transfer is also the 
subject of a complaint this Service is considering so I can see the timings of both the 
transfers were broadly the same. I have also seen this provider seems to have carried out 
significantly more due diligence than Countrywide.
The provider saw that Capital Facts was on one of its watchlists and as a result this 
triggered a red flag and a caution marker was immediately put on Mrs Ms file.
The provider also sent Mrs M directly the Scorpion leaflets and the booklet on three separate 
occasions. She has confirmed she received these documents from this provider but she told 
our investigator that she didnt think the contents applied to her.
This provider also used the guidance in the Code to formulate a questionnaire it asked Mrs 
M to complete, because of the presence of an unregulated adviser and the transfer being to 
an overseas scheme. This questionnaire was focused on the fact the transfer was to an 
overseas scheme and asked the following questions:
1. Did you initiate the contact originally yourself or were you approached unsolicited 
regarding this transfer.
2. Confirmed the contact was made by telephone and gave the name of the person she 
had spoken to and confirmed the firm was First review Pension services.
3. Did you receive advice from this person or company regarding the transfer. 
4. Have you been offered any incentives either in the form of cash or gifts to proceed 
with the transfer?
5. Will you be receiving any part of your pensions as a cash sum following completion 
of the transfer?
6. Have you been offered a loan or cash back against your pension fund?
7. Are you fully aware of all the possible charges and fees that may be incurred as a 
result of the transfer being made?
Are you fully aware of the potential tax charges that could arise as a result of the 
transfer proceeding?
8. Are you fully aware of the immediate and proposed changes affecting pension 
legislation announce in the 2014 budget?
9. Is the scheme to which the transfer to be paid based overseas or are the funds from 
the pension scheme to be invested overseas.
10. Have you read all the relevant documentation and information about the transfer, the 
terms and conditions and how your pensions will be paid when you retire.
11. Since being alerted to the possibility of Pension Liberation Fraud have you sought 
further independent financial advice from any third party regarding the transfer?The answers Mrs M provided to these questions match the information provided to us by her 
CMC, so while I note the questionnaire was sent to OPAL Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs 
M didnt answer the questions herself. She provided full information where the questions 
required, providing the name of the regulated adviser she used  Strategic Wealth. She also 
answered no to questions 4,5 and 6 and yes to questions 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. She also 
signed and dated the form as 26 January 2016. 
In my view the due diligence carried out by this provider was detailed and thorough and was 
in line with what TPR had suggested pension providers do. So I am satisfied that it engaged 
with Mrs M about the transfer and asked her specific questions that applied directly to her 
and the QROPS she was transferring to. I am also satisfied that this provider made Mrs M 
aware of the main risks of transferring overseas  potentially losing FCA protection and the 
tax implications.
Despite these actions taken by this provider Mrs M still proceeded with the transfer of her 
pension. Therefore, I think its likely that even if Countrywide had sent her the leaflet directly 
and carried out the due diligence it should have in line with the Code I dont think Mrs M 
would have done anything different  I think she would have continued with the transfer 
anyway.
In conclusion, I accept there were significant failings on the part of Countrywide in this case. 
But it is not the role of the ombudsman or the courts to which we act as an alternative to 
automatically require the whole transaction to be unwound because of the errors. Instead 
only if we consider Mrs M would have acted differently but for those errors can this complaint 
be upheld. And for the reasons stated above I dont think she would have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman