DRN-2095393
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold them a whole of life policy.
The complaint has been brought by a representative who Ill refer to as L.
What happened
In July 1988 Mr and Mrs P were advised to set up a whole of life policy by a firm Phoenix 
Life has since acquired liability for. The policy provided an initial sum assured of £95,000 
and included escalation for the first five years. The policy premiums started at about £600 
per year and were invested in a managed fund.
The policy was surrendered in 1999. A surrender value of £8,000 was paid to Mr and Mrs P.
L complained on behalf of Mr and Mrs P to Phoenix Life in October 2019 about the sale of 
the policy. They said no alternatives were discussed with their clients when it was sold, nor 
did the adviser ask how long cover was required for or assess their attitude to risk. L also 
said Mr and Mrs P were in financial difficulty at the time.
Phoenix Life upheld the complaint but didnt think Mr and Mrs P had suffered a financial loss. 
They said the paperwork showed theyd suffered past financial difficulties but were now able 
to obtain replacement cover. And, while the advisor didnt specifically assess Mr and Mrs Ps 
attitude to risk, they were sold a unit linked whole of life policy that is primarily designed for 
life cover and not as an investment plan. 
Phoenix Life however accepted that although life cover was a high priority for Mr and Mrs P, 
due to them having a young family, they were unable to justify the sale of a whole of life 
policy. They felt a fixed term assurance policy with a term of 22 years, thereby taking Mr P to 
his preferred retirement age of 60, wouldve been more appropriate. To ensure Mr and Mrs P 
hadnt been financially disadvantaged they carried out a loss calculation comparing the cost 
of the whole of life policy against the fixed term plan, taking in to account interest for loss of 
use of money and the surrender value that was paid to them in 1999. As this showed no 
financial loss, they took no further action.
L referred the complaint the complaint to our service and raised further concerns about the 
policy being sold when Mr and Mrs P were in financial difficulty. They also questioned the 
logic applied by Phoenix Life in their loss calculation by deducting the cost of a 22-year fixed 
term assurance policy when Mr and Mrs Ps youngest child was three years old.
One of our investigators looked in to it but he didnt think Phoenix Life had to do anything 
further. He said the point of sale documents suggest Mr and Mrs P were no longer in 
financial difficulty when the policy was sold and, given cover remained in place for about ten 
years, he wasnt persuaded that it was unaffordable. Our investigator acknowledged Ls 
point about Phoenix Lifes decision to use a 22-year term policy as part of the loss 
calculation as this meant cover extended beyond Mr and Mrs Ps youngest child turning 18. 
But, while he couldnt be sure what term Mr and Mrs P wouldve opted for, he thought a 22-
year term was reasonable as a comparison given Mr and Mrs P had a planned retirement 
age of 60 and their priority was to protect their family. 
L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs P had a need for life cover. They had two 
young children at the time and the financial analysis report shows that protecting their family 
was a priority for them. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for joint life cover to be 
recommended.
L has raised affordability concerns due to Mr and Mrs P experiencing financial difficulty. But, 
as both Phoenix Life and our investigator explained, its recorded in the financial analysis 
report that Mr and Mrs P had overcome this financial difficulty and wanted to set up life cover 
again. The policy also remained active for about ten years. And so, Im not persuaded the 
policy was mis-sold due to affordability reasons. 
Phoenix Life concede that a fixed term assurance policy, which wouldve benefited from 
lower premiums, wouldve been more appropriate for Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances. Given 
this, and that I consider it was reasonable for life cover to be recommended to Mr and Mrs P, 
I dont intend to comment on whether a whole of life or fixed term assurance policy wouldve 
been more appropriate for their needs. The remaining issue however is the length of cover 
Mr and Mrs P wouldve taken had they been advised to set up a fixed term assurance policy 
instead - and which should be used when calculating if theyve suffered a financial loss or 
not.
L has questioned the justification of a 22-year term in the loss calculation given Phoenix Life 
cant demonstrate how long Mr and Mrs P wanted cover for. And theyve pointed out that this 
length of cover wouldve gone past their youngest child becoming 18 years of age. Ive 
carefully taken in to consideration these points but, having done so, I dont think Phoenix Life 
has taken an unreasonable approach by using a 22-year fixed term assurance policy in their 
calculations. Ill explain why.
As I wasnt present at the time of sale, I cant be sure what was discussed between the 
adviser and Mr and Mrs P. There is also limited documentary evidence available. And so, if 
Mr and Mrs P had been advised to take out a fixed term assurance policy, its unclear what 
length of cover they wouldve opted for. That said, its recorded that Mr P was the sole 
earner and his (and Mrs Ps) preferred retirement age was 60. Given protecting their family 
was a priority, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that they wouldve chosen for the 
cover to run up until this point. And, although this wouldve gone past their youngest child 
becoming 18 years of age, I dont think this means there was no need for life cover from this 
point onwards. It isnt unusual for young adults to enter further education and remain, to an 
extent, financially dependent on their parents beyond the age of 18. So, I think its 
reasonable for someone to want to protect their family beyond their children reaching that 
age.
It follows that I think it was reasonable for Phoenix Life to use a 22-year fixed term 
assurance policy in their loss calculations to determine whether Mr and Mrs P has suffered a 
financial loss. And, having seen the calculations, Im satisfied theyve carried them out in line with how I would expect  taking in to account interest for loss of use of money and the 
policy surrender value they received. 
As the calculation shows Mr and Mrs P havent suffered a financial loss, I dont think Phoenix 
Life has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrd P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman