DRN-4258788
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
In late 2021, a friend of Mr Ms introduced him to an app they had been using. The app 
allowed users to buy different packages of tasks  which were typically liking certain posts or 
videos on social media websites  and then to earn money by completing those tasks. Each 
completed task would earn the user a small payment, and more expensive packages of 
tasks would earn larger payments for each completed task. Mr M says his friend said they 
had been making money using the app, and the app looked legitimate, so he signed up and 
sent an initial payment of £100 to the bank details the company running the app gave him.
Mr M says he then saw this money show up in his account on the app, he could use this to 
buy packages of tasks, and the app showed the balance of his account increasing as he 
completed the tasks. And as both he and his friend appeared to be making money, he 
decided to keep going and so made a number of further payments to different bank details 
the company running the app gave him. Ive set out the payments Mr M made below:
Date Details Amount
2 December 2021 1st bank details £100
2 December 2021 1st bank details £500
3 December 2021 1st bank details £100
23 December 2021 2nd bank details £300
26 December 2021 3rd bank details £556
27 December 2021 3rd bank details £500
27 December 2021 4th bank details £1,000
30 December 2021 5th bank details £1,000
8 January 2022 3rd bank details £1,000
10 January 2022 5th bank details £990
Unfortunately, we now know the app and the company running it were a scam.
The scam was uncovered when Mr M tried to log into the app one day but all the features 
had gone and the app just showed writing in a foreign language. The customer service for 
the company running the app also disappeared and any messages sent to them werent 
read or replied to. Mr M then reported the payments he had made to Monzo as a scam and 
asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Monzo investigated but said it didnt think Mr M had done enough checks into who he was 
paying before making the payments. It also said it didnt have reasonable grounds to suspect 
the payments he made were suspicious and hadnt been able to recover any money from the 
bank the money was sent to. So it didnt agree to refund the money Mr M had lost. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so referred a complaint to our service.
I sent Mr M and Monzo a provisional decision on 14 June 2023, setting out why I was 
intending to uphold this complaint in part. An extract from my provisional decision is set out 
below:
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has said it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. This code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment 
scams, like the one Mr M was the victim of, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And 
it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr M ignore an effective warning in relation to the payments?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Monzo has sent us a copy of the warning it says Mr M was shown before making these 
payments. It says:
Youre sending £[X] to someone we couldnt verify
You may not be able to get your money back if this does turn out to be a scam.
The warning then asks the customer to click to confirm that they understand this could be a 
scam, that they understand the advice and risks and that they are happy to continue.
And while this warning does mention the possible consequences of falling victim to a scam, 
it doesnt go into detail about what any specific scams might look or feel like. And it doesnt 
give any examples of how a customer could avoid or reduce the risk of falling victim to a 
scam. So I dont think this warning was impactful or specific enough to be effective in Mr Ms 
circumstances.
And so I dont think Monzo has established that Mr M ignored an effective warning in relation 
to any of the payments.
Did Mr M have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?This was clearly a very sophisticated scam. The company running it had created an app that 
Mr M was able to download onto his phone and log-in through to view the balance of his 
account and the tasks available to him. He says the app looked professional and legitimate, 
and used the branding of a well-known social media platform, which made it seem genuine. 
And Mr M was recommended to join the app by a friend of his, who said they had been using 
it and making money.
So I think it was reasonable that Mr M initially thought the app was genuine, and I think he 
had a reasonable basis for belief when making the first payment of £100. But after this 
payment, I think Mr M should have had significant concerns about what he was being told 
and how the app worked.
Mr M has said the app showed the packages of tasks that were available and that more 
expensive packages would earn larger payments for each completed task. But he hasnt 
been able to explain how much money he was earning for each task he completed, or how 
much money he was earning in an average hour, day, or week. And without a clear 
understanding of how this worked, I dont think it was reasonable for him to pay significantly 
more money into the app.
Mr M also said the app showed the balance of his account increasing significantly and, just 
over three months after his first payment, showed his balance as more than three times the 
amount he had paid in. But based on what Mr M has said about what completing the tasks 
involved, this appears to be a very high return and I think Mr M should have had significant 
concerns about whether the results he was seeing were too good to be true.
Mr M has said he checked whether the company running the app was registered on 
Companies House, and the fact that it was registered made him more comfortable that this 
was legitimate. But the company running the app was only registered on Companies House 
around a month after Mr M made his last payment, so I dont think he can have checked this 
before making any of the payments. And so I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr M 
carried out any checks into who the company was before making the payments.
When making the payments, Mr M was told to send the money to accounts in the names of 
different companies than the one he was told was running the app. And by the later 
payments, hed been asked to send money to five different companies. Mr M says he 
assumed these companies were holding companies or parent companies of the company 
running the app. But I havent seen anything to suggest this is the case, or that they are 
connected to the company running the app at all. And Mr M also says he checked all these 
companies on Companies House too. But one of the other companies he sent money to was 
showing as dissolved when he made the payment to them, so I dont think its likely he did 
check this or this should have caused him significant concern. And, in any event, I think 
being asked to pay different companies than the one he thought he was dealing with should 
have caused Mr M some concern.
Mr M has also mentioned that he saw a number of other users posting in the apps group 
chat that they were having trouble withdrawing money, or that they hadnt received money 
they were owed. And even though he says the company running the app would often 
respond to these users, I think this should have caused him significant concern about 
whether the money he was supposedly making was real or whether he would be able to 
withdraw it himself. But he doesnt appear to have successfully withdrawn any money from 
the app, or even tried to do so, before making further payments into it.
Mr M also doesnt appear to have been given any paperwork or any form of contract for the 
work he was supposedly doing for the company running the app  which I also think should 
have caused him some concern about whether the app or the company was genuine.While I think Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief when making the first payment of £100, 
after this I think there were a number of things about what he was being told which should 
have caused him significant concern. Mr M has also said he had concerns himself about 
whether the app was too good to be true and about people struggling to withdraw their 
money. And I dont think the parts of the app or the information he received that looked 
genuine should have been enough to overcome the concerns I have identified or the 
concerns he has admitted he had.
So I dont think Monzo has established that any of the exceptions to reimbursement under 
the CRM code apply to the first payment of £100 Mr M made, and so it should refund this 
payment in full. But I think Monzo has established that Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis 
for belief when he made the following nine payments. So it doesnt have to refund all of the 
money Mr M lost as a result of them.
Did Monzo meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief when making the last nine 
payments, he may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money he lost if Monzo didnt 
meet its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings 
when it identifies a scam risk.
But I dont think these payments were for particularly large amounts, I dont think they were 
close enough together or so clearly connected to form a suspicious pattern, and they didnt 
leave the balance of Mr Ms account at a particularly unusual level. So I dont think Monzo 
ought to have identified a scam risk here or was required to provide an effective warning 
before Mr M made these payments. So I dont think Monzo has failed to meet its obligations 
under the CRM code.
Did Monzo do enough to try to recover the money Mr M lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
But Monzo has sent us evidence that it contacted the banks the money was sent to within a 
reasonable amount of time, to try to recover the money Mr M had lost. And it either hasnt 
received a response or has been told there is no money left to return to Mr M. So I think it 
has done all wed expect it to do to try to recover the money. And, particularly as it was only 
made aware of the scam more than a month after the last payment was made, I dont think 
anything Monzo could reasonably have been expected to do would have led to the money 
being recovered.
I said Id consider anything further Mr M and Monzo sent in following the provisional 
decision, provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr M and Monzo have now responded to the provisional decision. Monzo said it agreed 
with the decision and was willing to settle the complaint as proposed, and Mr M asked for the 
complaint but proceed to a final decision but didnt provide anything further to be considered.As neither Mr M nor Monzo submitted any further evidence or arguments, I still think the 
conclusions I set out in the provisional decision are correct, and for the same reasons.
I still dont think Monzo has established that any of the exceptions to reimbursement under 
the CRM code apply to the first payment of £100 Mr M made, and so it should refund this 
payment in full. But I still think Monzo has established that Mr M didnt have a reasonable 
basis of belief when he made the following nine payments, and that Monzo didnt fail to meet 
its obligations under the CRM code in relation to these payments. So I dont think Monzo 
should have to refund any of these nine payments.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd 
to:
Refund Mr M the £100 payment he made on 2 December 2021
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially responded to his claim 
until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman