DRN-4249920
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he experienced difficulties when sending large amounts of Euros 
abroad from a HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) Global Money Account.
What happened
Mr M purchased a property abroad and went to send the deposit for the property (€19,000) 
from a HSBC Global Money Account on 12 December 2022. Mr M says HSBC contacted 
him to ask him questions about the payment, which resulted in the payment being declined. 
Mr M complained and received a call from HSBC on 13 December 2022, and the payment 
was successfully processed.
Mr M then transferred £190,000 to his Global Money Account on 5 January 2023 and 
converted the money into Euros on 9 January 2023, ready to be transferred to the overseas 
law firm handling the sale of the property. 
However, the Global Money Account had a daily transfer limit of £50,000 (or currency 
equivalent). This led to Mr M then having to transfer the money back into his Premier 
account (which was £188,613 after it was converted back into British pounds) so that he 
could make the payment from that account instead.
In response to Mr Ms complaints, HSBC agreed to pay Mr M a total of £1,619.98. This 
reflected the £1,387 that Mr M lost due to changes in the exchange rate between when he 
first converted £190,000 into Euros, and how much he got back when he transferred it back 
into Premier account. It also included a further £232.98 that Mr M had to pay on top of the 
original £190,000, to pay the necessary amount needed in Euros.
After Mr M referred his complaint to our service, HSBC agreed to also pay Mr M £150 in 
recognition for the distress and inconvenience Mr M experienced when trying to make the 
transfer over the phone.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and overall they thought that what HSBC 
had offered to put matters right was fair.
Mr M disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, overall I think that what HSBC has offered to do is reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Initial deposit payment blocked
To pay for the deposit on the property that Mr M was purchasing, Mr M transferred money 
into his Global Money Account, converted the amount into Euros and made a payment to the 
law firm handling the sale of the property. However, HSBC blocked the pending payment 
and asked Mr M to get in contact.
I have listened to the initial call Mr M had with HSBC about the blocked payment. Its clear 
that the reason why HSBC blocked the payment was because it suspected that Mr M was 
potentially being scammed. 
Mr M has said that he found the conversation to have been unusual. But it is the case that 
the requirements on banks to protect customers from being scammed are much more 
onerous than they used to be. And it is now unfortunately the case that scammers will 
sometimes go so far as to coach the victim in how to answer the questions from their banks 
fraud checks. So it can be very difficult for a bank to determine whether the answers given 
by the account holder during a fraud check are correct or are deliberately misleading so as 
to let the payment be made. I think this explains why some of the questions mayve come 
across as being intrusive and at times, odd.
I recognise that Mr M was exasperated at the fact that hed given a clear explanation about 
the circumstances surrounding the payment, and had explained that hed done his own due 
diligence into the company he was sending the money to. Yet the payment was still blocked. 
However, it is the case that HSBC only blocked the payment to protect Mr M. There are 
currently many scams in operation where people are being asked to send large amounts (or 
smaller amounts followed by larger amounts) of money to unknown bank accounts in return 
for various so called assets such as bitcoin, shares, property etc. And certain aspects of the 
circumstances surrounding the transaction that Mr M made fit that criteria. So I can 
understand why the member of staff mayve been reluctant to release the payment. 
I have also listened to the phone call Mr M had with HSBC on the following day. In that call 
HSBC acknowledged Mr Ms frustration. And after asking a number of questions, HSBC was 
satisfied that the payment was genuine. HSBC removed the block from Mr Ms account, 
asked Mr M to make the payment again and then manually removed the block from the 
second attempted payment, whilst Mr M was on the call. 
Overall, I think the first call couldve been handled better. I think that the member of staff 
shouldve taken on board what Mr M had said about the steps hed taken to ensure the 
payment was for a legitimate cause and was to the correct bank account. But having said 
that, I also think that when Mr M called HSBC on the following day, HSBC took reasonable 
steps to understand the issue and resolve matters quickly for Mr M. 
So in the circumstances, whilst I recognise that it was frustrating for Mr M, I dont think it 
would be appropriate to award compensation because of the block that was initially placed 
on the deposit payment in this case.
Exceeding the payment limits of the Global Money Account (GMA)
I understand that the GMA is an app based account that allows account holders to convert 
British pounds into other currencies, and to hold those other currencies within the account. It 
also allows account holders to transfer money to overseas accounts in different currencies. 
But, from everything I have seen, its clear that there is a £50,000 (or currency equivalent) 
daily limit on overseas transfers from the GMA.
Mr M has provided screenshots from HSBCs app, which he says suggests you can make 
transfers from the GMA above £50,000 if done over the phone. Ive looked into this, but it 
seems that Mr M has provided information about the general limits that apply when making 
international transfers from HSBC current accounts - rather than from the GMA specifically. 
When looking into this issue, everything I have seen (including archived version of HSBCs website from January 2023) indicates the literature made it clear that there was a daily limit 
of £50,000 for international transfers from the GMA specifically. It was only when making 
transfers outside of the GMA i.e. from HSBC current accounts, could Mr M make 
international transfers of more than this amount over the phone (I understand the phone limit 
is £10m as he is a Premier account holder). 
Having listened to the various conversations Mr M had with HSBC, Mr M was clearly aware 
of the limit on the GMA from the outset. It is unfortunately the case that Mr M incorrectly 
thought that the limit didnt apply if he made the transfers by phone from his GMA. But as 
outlined above, that is not the case. The GMA is app based, so as far as I can see, GMA 
transfers can only be made via the HSBCs app. 
Overall, I think that it wouldve been helpful had HSBC reminded Mr M that the GMA only 
operated via the app, during the conversation that Mr M had with HSBCs fraud department 
on 13 December 2022. In that call, Mr M mentioned the limit (although incorrectly said it was 
£30,000) and the fact he needed to transfer a large amount to complete on his property 
purchase soon. In response, the member of staff said that Mr M could call the customer 
service number and ask them to make the payment on his behalf. What the member of staff 
said was correct  to make an international transfer of more than £50,000 Mr M needed to 
make the transfer via telephone banking (and this was ultimately how Mr M made the 
transfer). But I think it couldve been made clearer that Mr M could only do that from his 
Premier account and not the GMA  which was the account that Mr M was discussing.
This understanding led to Mr M transferring £190,000 into his GMA on 5 January 2023. 
Unfortunately, Mr M exchanged that amount into Euros before calling HSBC on 9 January 
2023 to make the transfer to the overseas account. But when Mr M went to make the 
transfer in Euros over the phone on the same day, he was told he couldnt as the amount he 
wanted to transfer to an overseas account exceed the daily limit for the GMA.
During the calls that followed, Mr M repeatedly said that the members of staff he spoke to 
didnt understand the products and needed more training. But having listened to the calls on 
9 and 10 January 2023, the members of staff he spoke to all correctly told him that he 
couldnt make the transfer from the GMA as it exceeded the daily limit. It seems there was 
some hesitancy about this, but only because Mr M said that hed previously been told by a 
member of staff that he could. So, the members of staff he spoke to, understandably, double 
checked to ensure there was no way around this issue and that what they were saying was 
correct. 
In an attempt to resolve matters and to avoid having to move the money back out of the 
GMA, the members of staff did suggest Mr M make the payments from his and his wifes 
GMAs over a couple of days. It was explained there would be no extra cost to do it that way 
and Mr M already had the money in Euros by that point so it wouldve been a fairly 
straightforward process. Overall, I think that HSBC did try to help Mr M in providing an 
alternative solution if he didnt want to lose the exchange rate that hed got through the GMA. 
But Mr M didnt want to pursue that option. Mr M said the law firm he was sending the money 
to was expecting it to be paid in one transaction, so was reluctant to entertain the idea of 
sending it in multiple transfers.
This resulted in Mr M having to transfer the Euros back into his Premier account, and then 
make the transfer to the overseas account from there. When Mr M transferred the Euros 
back to his Premier account, he only received £188,613. And when he made the overseas 
transfer from his Premier account, he paid £190,232.98. So, Mr M lost £1,387 in transferring 
the £190,000 worth of Euros back to his Premier account, and had to pay an extra £232.98 
to ensure the correct figure in Euros was paid.
I think that HSBCs offer to pay Mr M £1,619.98 fairly reflects his costs in getting the money 
back into his Premier account to make the transfer, which subsequently went through the 
following day, on 10 January 2023.I recognise that Mr M was on the phone for quite some time, to see if the GMA daily limit 
could be circumvented. When it became apparent that it couldnt, Mr M then spent further 
time on the phone arranging for the money to be transferred from his Premier account, and 
speaking to HSBCs fraud department again. Given the time pressures of the payment, I 
recognise that it wouldve been stressful for Mr M, and I think the £150 offered by HSBC for 
this is not unreasonable in the circumstances.
Finally, I note that when Mr M made the payment from his Premier account, he received a 
worse exchange rate compared to what hed received converting Pounds to Euros in the 
GMA. Mr M says that HSBC should reimburse him for this loss, which he estimated to be 
around £10,000.  
Having considered this point, the difference was a fair bit less than £10,000 that Mr M 
originally said. It looks to have been closer to around €4,000. However, when deciding what 
detriment, if any, Mr M has suffered, I need to decide what was likely to have happened had 
things gone as they shouldve i.e. Mr M hadnt attempted to make the transfer via his GMA. 
Having considered everything, I think its most likely the case that Mr M wouldve still made 
the transfer through his HSBC account. I say this as Mr M has said that it was important to 
him to make the transfer securely through his own bank, rather than through a currency 
broker, due to the large amount of money involved. And in the circumstances, I can see why 
Mr M would be wary about using a company he may not have had previous experience of 
before to transfer such a large amount of money to an overseas bank account. 
So it is the case that Mr M was never able to have made the transfer in one go through the 
GMA, and Mr M didnt want to make smaller transfers over a couple of days from his and his 
wifes GMA. Therefore, Mr M would never have been able to receive the better exchange 
rate that the GMA provided. So in the circumstances, I cant reasonably say that Mr M would 
necessarily have been able to make the transfer at a better exchange rate with HSBC than 
what he ultimately received. 
Because of this, I think that what HSBC has already offered to put things right is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I understand that HSBC has already paid 
Mr M the £1,619.98. So all that is left to pay Mr M is the additional £150 compensation for 
the telephone calls that he had to make to get the transfer processed.
Putting things right
In addition to what it has already paid Mr M, HSBC should also pay Mr M £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
My final decision
Because of the reasons outlined above, I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to do what I have outlined above, to put matters right in this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman