DRN-3480781
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) affected 
his credit rating.
What happened
Mr S had three credit cards from Barclaycard. The key facts are shown below: 
Card A 
Date Limit 
April 2020 £12,000
September 2020 £10,700
June 2021 £10,300
Card A had a payment holiday from April 2020 to June 2020 and from January 2021 to 
March 2021. Payments were missed in September 2021 and October 2021.
Card B 
Date Limit
April 2020 £12,000
July 2020 £7,450
January 2021 £6,800
August 2021 £6,550
Card B had a payment holiday from April 2020 to June 2020 and from January 2021 to April 
2021. Payments were missed in September 2021 and October 2021.
Card C 
Date Limit
April 2020 £12,000
April 2020 £9,250
January 2021 £0
Card C had a payment holiday from April 2020 to June 2020 and from January 2021 to April 
2021. Payments were missed in September 2021 and October 2021.
All three accounts were repaid in November 2021.
Mr S complained. His income had been affected firstly by illness, and then by Covid-19. He 
said his credit file had been marked by Barclaycard while he was on payment holidays. 
Barclaycard also reduced his credit limits, which was unfair. All of this led to his credit score 
being lower - which meant he couldnt get any affordable credit. He said that the interest 
rates on his credit cards were too high. And  he wanted a consolidation loan to pay off the 
cards, but they wouldnt agree to this. He said that Barclaycard hassled him by calling him at 
weekends and on bank holidays.
Barclaycard said theyd not reported any missed payments to the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) in relation to the payment holidays. They reduced Mr S credit limits because they 
didnt want him to borrow more than he could afford  they wanted to ensure the limits were 
right. They said theyd offered to reduced Mr S interest rates by 3% - as he was in 
persistent debt. They said they didnt offer consolidation loans for the purpose of repaying 
credit card debts. They said they were sorry that Mr S felt hassled by the calls made at 
weekends and bank holidays  but they operated at these times to try to give a good service 
to customers.
Mr S brought his complaint to us Our investigator said Barclaycard acted reasonably. He 
said the balances of Mr S accounts were all below the new, reduced limits that Barclaycard 
put in place. The decision to reduce Mr S limits was a commercial decision for Barclaycard 
to take. And it was covered in their terms and conditions. He could see that Mr S credit file 
hadnt been affected by the payment holidays. But he had missed payments later in 2021  
which had been notified to the CRAs. On the matter of interest rates, Barclaycard had 
offered a reduction of 3% on card C  in line with their offer to other customers in persistent 
debt. They offered a paydown plan to help Mr S reduce the debts on his cards. Barclaycard 
had apologised for the calls they made at weekends and bank holidays  they werent 
intended to cause distress.
Mr S didnt agree. He said Barclaycard had affected his credit rating  by advising the 
payment holidays to CRAs and reducing his credit limits. And he said a paydown plan would 
be notified to CRAs. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of aspects to Mr S complaint. He says:
Barclaycard notified Mr S payment holidays to the CRAs.
This, and Barclaycards reduction in his credit limits led to a reduction in his credit 
rating and that was unfair.
The interest rates on the cards was too high  the reduction in rates they offered (as 
he was in persistent debt) wasnt good enough.Barclaycard wouldnt give him a consolidation loan to pay off the cards.
Barclaycard hassled him by calling at weekends and bank holidays.
Payment holidays: In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced 
guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All 
lenders, including Barclaycard, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit 
agreements, including credit cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could 
ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be 
suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although 
interest would still be debited to the accounts.
I can see that Mr S had two periods of three months payment holiday on each of his cards  
so he had the maximum of six months payment holiday. Mr S sent to us his credit file  and 
I can see that there arent any missed payment markers for the periods of the payment 
holidays. So  Barclaycard acted reasonably here and in line with the payment holiday 
scheme.
But  I noticed that Barclaycard notified missed payments to Mr S credit file with the CRAs 
in September 2021 and October 2021. And I can also see from Mr S credit card statements 
that he missed payments in those months. And so  Barclaycard correctly notified those to 
the CRAs. But those markers on Mr S credit file were  not related to the payment holidays 
which took place in 2020 and earlier in 2021.
Reduction in credit limits: Barclaycard reduced Mr S credit limits. But this was a commercial 
decision for them to take, in line with their assessment of Mr S situation and the conduct of 
his accounts. We cant interfere with Barclaycards commercial decisions in this connection  
but Mr S did tell us that his income had been badly affected by his illness and then by the 
pandemic, and so I can see why Barclaycard may have taken the decision they did. And as 
our investigator said, they can reduce limits if they wish  as its within their terms and 
conditions. These say We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your 
account usage and history, information from other parts of the Barclays group, information 
we receive from credit reference agencies, and any other information we think is 
relevant.Well tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well then 
review it from time to time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let you know. We tell 
you more about your credit limit in the Using your account section of this agreement.
I looked at the communications from Barclaycard to Mr S about the limit reductions  and 
they did clearly advise him what was to happen, and why.
Mr S says that Barclaycards actions reduced his credit score. Ive thought about this. Its 
clear that the payment holidays couldnt have affected his credit score  as they werent 
notified by Barclaycard to the CRAs. We dont know what specific data feeds into a 
customers credit score  the CRAs take information from any other lenders that Mr S may 
have used, plus other wider data. I suspect it may have been possible that the reductions in 
limits did affect Mr S credit score  its not possible for me to be certain about that. But in 
any case, as it was Barclaycards decision to reduce Mr S limits, I cant hold them 
responsible for any effect on his credit score. 
Persistent debt and interest rates: Mr S says the rates on his cards were too high, and the 
reduction of 3% wasnt enough. He says Barclaycards actions affected his credit score. 
I can see that Barclaycard considered Mr S accounts to be in persistent debt. The FCAs 
persistent debt rules are set out on the FCA handbook, CONC 6.7.27. They say (in 
summary) that firms such as Barclaycard must look at the accounts of borrowers to ensure theyre reducing their debts and therefore, not paying too much interest. And so  where a 
borrower is paying more in interest and fees than they are paying towards reducing the 
amount of the debt, then a repayment plan should be put in place to deal with this. And, 
where this cant be agreed, the card may be suspended  to stop customers from increasing 
their debts further. The intention of the rules is to ensure that customers are protected from 
paying too much interest  and in some cases, never actually repaying their debts. This 
typically happens if customers only pay the minimum amount each month, while still 
spending on their cards.
In Mr S case, I can see that Barclaycard considered his accounts to be in persistent debt. 
They asked him to increase his payments, but when these werent enough to reduce the 
debts, they asked him to go onto a paydown plan  with higher payments. Ive seen the 
letters that they sent to Mr S  and they say that such a plan was not notified to the credit 
reference agencies  as long as payments were made at those levels and on time. I looked 
at Mr S credit file  and there is no mention of a paydown plan or payment arrangement on 
it. So  the plan didnt affect Mr S credit file. The only entries on it were the missed 
payments  in September 2021 and October 2021. And  these were factually correct.
Mr S says Barclaycard offered him a reduction in interest rate of 3% on the paydown plan. I 
can see from the paydown plan offer letter that an interest rate reduction was offered to him. 
But  I have to say that Its for Barclaycard to set its customers interest rates based on its 
commercial and risk appetite. And  we cant interfere with that.
Consolidation loan: we asked Barclaycard about this, and they told us that as a matter of 
principle, they dont offer those. And I have to say that even if they did and they declined to 
agree such a loan for Mr S - then again, thats a commercial decision for them to take, which 
we cant interfere with.
Calls at weekend and bank holidays:  I can appreciate that Mr S may have felt pressurised 
by these. Barclaycard say its part of how they do business. I can see both sides of this 
argument. Of course, many customers might well appreciate a call from their bank on non-
business days; others (such as Mr S) will not. So  its not something with we can say is 
wrong or unreasonable  it seems to me that Barclaycard were trying to give a good service 
by contacting Mr S in that way  even if he didnt feel like that was the case.
I appreciate that Mr S feels strongly about what happened. He will therefore be disappointed 
by my decision, but overall, and in the circumstances of Mr S complaint, I consider 
Barclaycard acted reasonably - and Im not going to ask them to do anything here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman