DRN-2021282
The complaint
Mr R complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc ended.
What happened
In September 2015 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Hitachi. At the end of the agreement the car was inspected, and damage 
charges were applied.
Mr R is unhappy about the level of damage charges. He says that the reduction in net 
auction proceeds on a car of this age, mileage and condition is less than the total that 
Hitachi is asking him to pay in damage charges.
Mr R says hes looked at comparable cars on online valuation sites and believes the 
reduction in value caused by the wear and tear is £1750 - £2250. He says Hitachi has over-
stated its losses by adding together amounts for individual items.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the damage charges had been fairly 
applied, and that Hitachi could charge for damage in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement.
Mr R didnt agree. He didnt think the investigator had addressed the issue of whether 
Hitachi could charge for several items of damage at a cost which exceeded the reduction in 
value. Mr R referred to principles of contract law and asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr R is concerned that hes been asked to pay charges which he thinks 
exceed the diminution in value of the car due to wear and tear.
Mr R acquired the car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service can look into complaints about it.
Mr Rs responsibility was to return the car in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. These say, amongst other things, that if theres damage which exceeds fair wear 
and tear, Mr R is responsible for it.
I can see that Hitachi has divided the charges it has asked Mr R to pay into 4 categories. 
These are:
End of contract charges £1759.59
Speeding fine £41.00
Excess mileage £2425.17
Extension rental £299.62
Mr R has stated that he doesnt dispute any of the charges, save for a valet fee. He makes a 
broader complaint that Hitachis liquidated loss is less than the total sum it has charged him.
Mr R doesnt dispute the charges in principle, so I wont focus on whether Hitachi has acted 
fairly in charging these. However, for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that the terms and 
conditions of the agreement oblige Mr R to pay excess mileage at the rate stipulated, and 
that any fines or penalties arising out of his use of the car are his responsibility. The 
agreement also states that Mr R must return the car at the end of the agreement and if it 
remains in his possession beyond that, he is liable to pay for the extra rental period. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that the charges for excess mileage, the speeding fine and the 
extension rental have been fairly applied.
In relation to the charges for damage, its my understanding that Mr R doesnt dispute these 
apart from the valet fee. Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos and Im 
satisfied that the damage exceeds fair wear and tear in accordance with the BVLRA 
guidelines. In relation to the valet charge, the guidelines say that a car should be returned 
with a clean interior. The images show that the interior of Mr Rs car was dirty. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the valet charge, as well as all the other charges for 
damage, have been fairly applied.
I understand the point which Mr R makes regarding the loss in value of the car being less 
than the total charges hes been asked to pay. But I approach this differently to Mr R. Some 
of the charges hes been asked to pay relate to a speeding fine and extra rental. These dont 
affect the value of the car, so I dont think its right to take these charges into account when 
comparing the diminution in value as a result of the condition of the car and the charges Mr 
R has been asked to pay.
The other charges Mr R has been asked to pay are damage charges of £1759.59 and 
excess mileage charges of £2425.17.
The excess mileage charges have been charged in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. To the extent that mileage influences the value of the car, it 
could be said that any potential loss in value due to the damage might be offset by lower 
than average mileage. But this isnt what has happened here. Mr R has exceeded the 
contractual mileage, so the car has covered more mileage than might reasonably be 
expected. This may have negatively impacted on the cars value, but I cant be certain of the 
exact impact it has had.
This leaves the damage charges of £1759.59. Mr R has said that hes looked at comparable 
cars online and believes that the reduction in value in his car due to wear and tear is 
between £1750 and £2250. I can only look at the specific circumstances of this case and 
whilst I appreciate that Mr R has provided vales for what he says are comparable cars, I 
dont have details of what Mr Rs car might have been worth if it didnt have the damage 
identified in the inspection report. So, Im not in a position to say whether the damage 
charges exceed the diminution in value of Mr Rs car. But as a general principle, Im satisfied 
that Hitachi is entitled to charge for damage which exceeds fair wear and tear and I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that the charges Hitachi asked Mr R to pay were 
unreasonable. 
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Hitachi has acted unfairly by asking Mr 
R to pay charges for damage. Im satisfied that the charges have been applied in line with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement. For these reasons, I wont be asking Hitachi to 
do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint,.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman