DRN-3325912
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him wrong information about how much
his contractual monthly payments would be following a payment deferral.
What happened
Mr M has a residential mortgage with Barclays. In March 2000 he asked for a payment
deferral as his income was impacted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr M was initially told
that because he had a history of arrears, he wasnt eligible. Barclays later accepted it gave
Mr M wrong information and applied a backdated payment deferral and arrears adjustment.
Mr M says he was told that when the deferral period ended, his contractual monthly payment
(CMP) would only increase by a few pounds. Hes unhappy that his payments have in fact
increased by around £50 per month. He wants his CMP to revert to what it was before the
payment deferral as the new payments are unaffordable.
Barclays says Mr M was told how much his CMP would increase to after the payment
deferral. He was offered the option of extending his term to keep his CMP down, but Mr M
refused the offer to go through an income and expenditure assessment. Barclays didnt
agree that Mr Ms CMP should revert to what it was before the payment deferral.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr M bought his complaint to our service. An investigator
looked into things and thought Barclays provided Mr M enough information about how a
payment deferral works and how it would impact his CMP. The complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman. I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 February 2022 and an extract of my provisional findings is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In November 2020, Barclays admitted it got things wrong, it accepted that Mr M was
previously given wrong information about his eligibility for a payment deferral. A backdated
six-month payment deferral was applied from April 2020 to September 2020. Barclays took
fair and reasonable steps to correct its mistake. From April 2020 Mr M stopped making
payments on his mortgage due to his self-employed income being impacted by the
pandemic. His arrears were adjusted accordingly. Mr M wasnt financially impacted in any
other way  for example, by making payments he couldnt afford. So, I dont think Barclays
needed to do anything further at that point to compensate Mr M for any loss suffered to date.
Mr Ms main concern is about the information given to him in November 2020. Ultimately, he
says he wasnt given clear information about what his CMP would increase to when the
deferral period ended.
During a call on 4 November 2020, Barclays explained how a payment deferral works. The
agent estimated that Mr Ms CMP would increase to around £595.02 as a result. The agent
said an affordability assessment was needed to ensure the new CMP plus the extra £100
towards Mr Ms arrears, as per the terms of his payment arrangement was manageable. Mr
M refused because, he said, he could afford the new payments.
Because Mr Ms backdated payment holiday took him to September 2020, the agent asked if 
he could make a payment to cover October 2020, to keep his account up-to-date. She asked 
for a payment of £642.68 which was his agreed amount before the payment deferral. This is
possibly because the new exact CMP had not yet been calculated. The agent said hed
receive a letter confirming the new CMP in the post.
The agent called Mr M back. She said shed checked the situation with a colleague. Because
Mr Ms payment arrangement was agreed by the courts, if he could confirm the payments
were affordable, a new affordability assessment wasnt necessary. The plan could be
reinstated. The agent explained at that moment in time she couldnt confirm the exact CMP
(although an estimate of £595.02 was previously given). Mr M would need to call back at the
end of November 2020 to make a manual payment and set up a direct debit for future
payments. The agent said that at point, whoever he spoke to, would be able to confirm the
new CMP and set up a direct debit mandate for that amount.
On 30 November 2020 Mr M called Barclays as agreed. The agent told him the amount due
that month was £644.40. This is where I think the confusion occurred. Mr M was asked to
pay only a few pounds more than before and he thought that was the agreed amount moving
forward. So, when his December direct debit was nearer to £700, he wasnt expecting this.
Mr M was told that by the end of November 2020, his new CMP would have been calculated
and the agent would be able to confirm the exact amount. Barclays got things wrong and
gave Mr M the wrong information during this call.
Ive seen the letter that was sent to Mr M on 5 November 2020 confirming his backdated
payment deferral. This letter makes no reference to how much his future CMP would be.
Barclays hasnt provided any evidence to suggest further letters were sent. In any event, I
dont think it was unreasonable for Mr M to rely on the information given to him by the agent
during this call.
Taking this into account, I think its right that Barclays should compensate Mr M for the
distress and inconvenience caused as a result. However, I also think its important to explain
that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers - not punish
organisations.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award
for distress and inconvenience is warranted.
Mr M thinks his CMP is too high considering how much he owes on his mortgage. He also
doesnt think an increase of around £50 a month following the payment deferral is
proportionate.
Mr Ms deferred payments (including the interest due) have been added to his mortgage
balance and spread over the remaining term. Because Mr M only has around five years
remaining on his mortgage term, this will impact how much he needs to pay. Ive seen
nothing to suggest Barclays calculation is wrong and the increase appears proportionate
considering the balance due over the term remaining.
Mr M should have been given clearer information about the amount due and he should be
compensated for that. But ultimately, he is paying the right amount due, in line with his
mortgage terms. I also think Barclays has since offered a reasonable solution to help makeMr Ms payments more manageable by offering a possible term extension to reduce his
CMP.
When taking all of this into account I think an award of £150 is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances to acknowledge the fact that Barclays didnt properly manage Mr Ms
expectations and the impact this had on him. Because Im persuaded Mr M is paying the
right amount in line with his mortgage terms, I wont be asking Barclays to adjust his CMP.
If the new CMP is unaffordable for Mr M, he should discuss his options with Barclays. A
possible term extension has already been offered. Other options may include a product
switch, if other suitable lower rates are available, to help reduce his payments. Barclays
should engage with Mr M if he seeks help.
Mr M says he was receiving repossession notice letters. He said this doesnt form part of his
complaint as hes satisfied the payments are being maintained. My understating is that these
letters shouldve stopped being sent after the plan was reinstated in November 2020.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the impact caused by its mistake. Barclays Bank UK PLC
should also engage with Mr M if he asks for help to make his CMP more affordable.
Barclays hasnt responded to the provisional decision. Mr M responded to say he accepts 
the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision.
I note that neither party has made any further arguments, or provided any further evidence, 
since I issued my provisional decision. Ive carefully considered again what I said.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the impact caused by its mistake. Barclays Bank UK PLC
should also engage with Mr M if he asks for help to make his CMP more affordable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman