DRN-4124472
The complaint
Ms G complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank (APS), 
didnt do enough to prevent the loss she suffered when she sent money to one of their 
accounts as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In August 2022 Ms G was sadly the victim 
of a safe account scam. Scammers impersonated genuine banks and told Ms G she 
needed to move her money as her account was under threat. As part of the scam she 
transferred money between several of her accounts. The final payment she made was from 
an account she held with R to an account controlled by the scammer which was with APS.
This payment was for £9,950 and took place on 1 August 2022. When Ms G realised shed 
been the victim of a scam she reported this to all relevant parties. R contacted APS who said 
by that point there were no funds to return. 
Ms G complained to R and that complaint was considered by our service. The outcome of 
the complaint was that it was upheld in full, but a reduction in the award of 50% was made 
due to Ms Gs contributory negligence. Both R and Ms G accepted that outcome and I 
understand R paid Ms G £4,975. 
Ms G had also complained to APS. She thinks they are at fault for allowing a scammer to 
open and operate an account. She also doesnt think they did enough to trace the scammer. 
One of our Investigators considered this complaint. Again the complaint was upheld. But 
after taking into account contributory negligence and the money already paid by R, it was 
recommended that APS should pay Ms G £2,487.50 plus 8% interest. Ms G accepted this 
outcome, but APS didnt, and they asked that an Ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall outcome reached by our Investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Im satisfied that APS correctly followed their process when opening the account in question. 
I dont think they reasonably could have known at that time that the account they were 
opening would later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or scam. So, I dont think 
APS could have prevented any of Ms Gs outstanding loss at the point they opened the 
account.  And in relation to Ms Gs point about APS tracing the accountholder, Im confident 
they will share any relevant information with the police upon receipt of a request to do so. 
But its not for APS (or our service) to investigate crime.  
APS also have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and are required to monitor their 
accounts. The APS account that Ms G was tricked into paying had relatively recently been 
opened. And such accounts can present an increased risk of misuse compared to more 
established accounts. Ms Gs money was the first meaningful credit into the account. It 
arrived in the account at 2.13pm on 1 August 2022. Four minutes later a series of outgoing 
payments began. In total there were seven outgoing payments made in around three 
minutes, all of these went to the same beneficiary. These seven payments spent all of 
Ms Gs funds as well as the small balance that was already in the account. 
Ive considered APS point that as a new account, they had no prior activity to use as a basis 
for what was normal account activity. But payments can still look suspicious (even without 
prior activity to reference), and I think these did. The speed with which the money was being 
transferred, particularly to the same beneficiary was indicative of potentially fraudulent 
activity. This is something that is commonly seen in both unauthorised account use and the 
movement of the proceeds of a scam and I think APS ought to have picked up on this. 
I understand there is a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and 
allowing customers free access to their funds. And I accept that APS dont want to 
unnecessarily inconvenience their customers making genuine payments. But in the 
circumstances of this case, I think by the time we got to the fourth outgoing payment (which 
was made only 58 seconds after the first), there was enough here to expect APS to have 
acted. And Id have expected APS to have blocked the account and looked closely at the 
activity.
APS then would have seen that the information included alongside Ms Gs payment 
indicated that their customer might have not been the intended beneficiary. This is because 
there was a mismatch between the accountholders name and what Ms G had recorded as 
the intended beneficiary when sending the payment. This would have increased APS 
suspicions. At this point they also would have noticed that the outgoing payments were 
going to a business that is known to provide cryptocurrency (although not exclusively). 
Whilst none of these factors might be entirely conclusive on their own, it all adds to the 
picture that this account was likely being misused. 
I would have expected APS to have contacted their customer and to have asked about their 
entitlement to the incoming payment. When APS contacted their customer after the scam 
had been reported, they didnt respond. So, Ive no reason to think things would have been 
different had that intervention happened at an earlier point. 
I think its most likely that APS intervening in the fourth outgoing payment would have meant 
that slightly more than Ms Gs outstanding loss of £4,975 (following the outcome of her 
complaint about R) would have been recoverable. But I also have to consider Ms Gs own 
conduct and I think it is fair that she bears some responsibility for her loss. This has already 
been explained in the outcome of her complaint about R, so I wont cover the same ground 
again. And Ms G effectively accepted this when accepting the outcome of that complaint. I 
agree that a 50% reduction due to contributory negligence is fair in all the circumstances. 
For completeness, there were no failings by APS which impacted Ms Gs loss in relation to 
acting upon the notification of fraud from R, as the money had been spent so quickly. But I 
agree with our Investigator that a fair outcome in all the circumstances is for APS to pay 
Ms G half of her outstanding loss, that being £2,478.50. I also agree that 8% simple interest 
should be added to this amount to be calculated between the date of loss and the date of 
settlement to compensate Ms G for being without access to her funds for that period of time. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank to pay Ms G £2,478.50. 
8% simple interest (yearly) should be added to this amount between the date of loss and the 
date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman