DRN-2394798
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled his commercial 
property insurance claim. 
Mr N is being represented on this case  any reference to Mr N includes the comments and 
actions of his representative unless otherwise specified. Any reference to UKI includes the 
actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr N has a commercial property insurance policy which is underwritten by UKI. In January 
2020, Mr Ns tenants vacated the insured property. 
Mr N arranged for a plumbing engineer to attend the property and complete work on radiator 
valves.  At the same time, Mr N says the engineer drained the system and switched the 
water supply off at the mains - which is located outside the property. 
Mr N agreed a new tenancy. The tenants were due to move in March 2020, but this was 
postponed due to national restrictions imposed as a result of the pandemic. 
Mr N continued to visit the property on a weekly basis. When visiting in May 2020, 
substantial water damage was found to have been caused by a leaking pipe in the upstairs 
toilet. The damage was severe, affecting several areas of the property. 
Mr N told UKI about the damage, but it said the claim wasnt covered because the water 
mains hadnt been turned off - a condition which must be met when the property is 
unoccupied. Mr N refutes this and so brought a complaint to our service. As part of his 
complaint, Mr N also raised concerns about the customer service he received from UKI.  
Mr N has provided a written statement from the plumbing engineer who attended in January 
2020 which states [] upon leaving the water mains and gas were switched off and the 
central heating/main system drained.  
However, an email from UKIs loss adjuster notes it was told by Mr Ns son-in-law the water 
mains were turned off upon the leak being discovered. UKI relies on this to show the water 
mains hadnt been switched off when the property became unoccupied.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He was persuaded by the plumbing engineers 
statement and was satisfied the water mains had been switched off within the first 20 days of 
the property being unoccupied. He added there wasnt any evidence to confirm how the 
water mains had been switched back on, but he didnt think it was reasonable to expect Mr N 
to know how this had happened when its located outside the property. So, the investigator 
said UKI should pay the claim.  He added that Mr N suffers from ill health and UKIs handling 
had caused additional distress, so he recommended £250 compensation be paid to reflect 
this.  
UKI didnt agree - it questioned the authenticity of the engineers statement and thought it 
was likely written by Mr Ns representative rather than the engineer. UKI contacted the 
engineer to query this but said the engineer couldnt explain why it appeared as having been 
written by Mr Ns representative. The engineer also told UKI there were two stopcocks  one 
outside the property and another under the sink and that the water was already off on his 
arrival.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When handling a claim UKIs duties include handling it promptly and fairly, not 
unreasonably rejecting it, providing reasonable guidance to make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress. And once terms are agreed it should settle the claim promptly.
This claim is about damage caused as a result of an escape of water. The policy provides 
cover for such events but there are conditions which must be met for a claim to be accepted. 
The relevant condition here is that: 
within 20 days of the Premises or any part thereof becoming unoccupied, 
untenanted or not having actively used: a) all services are to be turned off at the 
mains except electricity where needed to maintain any fire or intruder alarm system 
in operation and the water and heating system drained []
The parties dont dispute that a plumbing engineer attended within 20 days.  But what is in 
dispute is whether the water and heating system was drained, and the water mains switched 
off, as required under the policy, when the engineer attended.
UKIs position is that Mr Ns son-in-law told it he had turned the water mains off when he 
visited the property in May 2020 and saw the damage. UKI says this proves the water mains 
hadnt been turned off when the tenants vacated in January 2020. I dont agree that it shows 
the water wasnt ever turned off  rather that the mains water was active on the day Mr Ns 
son-in-law attended the property.
Ive looked at the plumbing engineer statement and it says the system was drained and the 
water mains turned off.  Theres nothing from UKI that persuades me the engineers report 
has been given in anything but good faith. Hes a member of the gas safe register  a 
national register for customers seeking qualified and competent engineers.  And having seen 
messages between Mr Ns daughter and the engineer  which Im satisfied confirm he wrote 
the statement  I think its more likely than not the water mains was switched off in January 
2020. Its important to note that the messages confirm the engineer would attend with the 
daughter to complete the statement on her computer and that this pre-dated the statement 
date.
So, on balance of the information available, Im more persuaded Mr N complied with the 
conditions of the policy, and as such UKI should have covered the claim for damage.
Putting things right
In thinking about how to put things right on the damage claim, Im mindful that Mr N says 
hes now had the repairs carried out. That means UKI cant do the repairs. The policy allows 
for a cash settlement and so thats what should happen here. The extent of repairs 
necessary as the result of the claim are not known and so Mr N will need to present 
evidence to UKI of the work hes had carried out, by whom, the amount(s) he paid, and the 
dates payments were made.In the event that UKI and Mr N cant agree on what costs are payable as being a 
consequence of the escape of water claim (rather than work done as an opportunity to 
better the property or maintain it), subject to Mr N following a complaint to UKI about that 
issue, we may be able to look at the narrow issue of what a fair amount is in relation to the 
escape of water damage. For the avoidance of doubt, UKI should not use its commercial 
rates in assessing repair costs rather an evidence-based decision on what Mr N sends it to 
show the nature of the work carried out, that it related to damage from the escape of water 
and what he paid for that work. 
Rent receivable 
As part of his complaint, Mr N has raised that he wants UKI to indemnify him for rent hes 
lost out on as a result of him being unable to let his property. The policy covers loss of rent if 
damage for which liability has been admitted (under sections 1 or 2 of the policy), causes an 
interruption to business which results in a loss of rent receivable (subject to policy terms and 
conditions).
Because Im satisfied Mr N has a valid claim, it follows that UKI need to assess all aspects of 
the claim - including whether Mr N is entitled to be indemnified for rent hes lost out on. 
Its not for me to calculate as part of this complaint how much rent Mr N might be owed. If, 
Mr N has concerns about how UKI settles this element of this complaint, he would, in the first 
instance, need to raise his concerns with UKI before this Service can consider it. Thats 
because UKI hasnt considered the merits of whether hes entitled to loss of rent or not under 
the policy.
Distress and inconvenience
 
Mr N is unhappy with the customer service hes received from UKI. Our investigator 
considered this and recommended UKI pay £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim.  
Having considered things carefully, Im satisfied this award is fair and Ill explain why. Had 
UKI not unfairly declined the claim, Mr N wouldnt have been put to the inconvenience of 
arranging the repairs himself.  Doing so put Mr N in a very difficult situation financially as the 
funds to pay for the repairs were not readily available. 
I know that Mr N is in very poor health  and as such has required his familys help to 
manage this claim on his behalf. While UKI cant be held accountable for inconvenience that 
is to be reasonably expected with a claim such as this, I do think its decision to unfairly 
decline the claim, exacerbated what was, and continues to be, a very difficult time for Mr N.  
For these reasons, Im satisfied £250 compensation is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and U K Insurance Limited must:
Pay the costs Mr N incurred (subject to proof) in having the repair works carried out  
but this excludes repairs that werent a consequence of the escape of water. 8% 
simple interest* per annum to be added to this, from the date the payments were 
made to the date UKI makes payment. Subject to the terms and conditions about Rent Receivable, asses Mr Ns claim for 
loss of rent. 
Pay £250 compensation. U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr N accepts my final decision. If it pays later 
than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires UK Insurance Limited to deduct tax from this interest. 
UK Insurance Limited must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted, 
if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman