DRN-1108702
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar) irresponsibly gave him loans which he couldnt 
afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Myjar provided to Mr A between June and October 2016. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
Amount 
Repayment
1 16/06/2016 22/06/2016 6 £1,000.00 £295.13
2 23/06/2016 08/09/2016 6 £1,300.00 £397.21
3 14/09/2016 17/09/2016 12 £2,000.00 £300.32
4 22/09/2016 18/10/2016 12 £2,000.00 £299.77
5 18/10/2016 12/03/2018 12 £850.00 £125.71
 
Mr A said that Myjar lent to him when he was in financial difficulty and he had to take out 
loans to pay off other loans.
When Mr A complained to Myjar, it agreed it shouldnt have provided loan 5 and offered to 
put things right for Mr A in line with the way wed expect Myjar to work out what it should pay 
back to Mr A for that loan.  
Mr A didnt feel this offer went far enough overall to deal with his complaint so he asked us to 
investigate.
Our adjudicator concentrated on looking at loans 1 - 4 since Myjar had already offered to 
settle the complaint about loan 5. She felt it wasnt unfair for Myjar to have provided loan 1 - 
but our adjudicator said the repayment for loan 2 represented a significant proportion of 
Mr As income. So there was a significant risk that Mr A wouldnt have been able to make the 
repayment on loan 2 without having to borrow again  making the loan unsustainable for 
him. So she felt that Myjar shouldnt have provided loan 2, or any further loans, to Mr A. Myjar disagreed with our adjudicator and said it carried out proportionate checks before 
lending and it wasnt sure that our adjudicator had taken everything it sent us into account. 
Myjar asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Myjar 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint. 
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr A. It asked him for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Myjar carried out checks on Mr As credit file.As Myjar has already agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to loan 5 and to 
amend Mr As credit file, then I havent considered this loan further save to include it in the 
redress. 
Like our adjudicator, I will focus on the loans which remain in dispute  loans 1 - 4.
I agree with the adjudicator that on the basis of the information Mr A told Myjar about his 
income and outgoings and what Myjar had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt 
wrong for Myjar to give him loan 1. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the 
checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. As Mr A hasnt raised any objection to the 
adjudicators recommendation in relation to loan 1, I dont think that I need to say more about 
this loan. 
I also agree with our adjudicator that, given the particular circumstances of Mr As case, 
Myjar should reasonably have seen that loan 2 was likely to be unsustainable and it 
shouldnt have provided this loan. I say this because when he asked for loan 2, Myjars 
records show it relied on information showing that Mr As income was £1400. 
So Myjar ought to have realised that the repayment of around £397 that Mr A had to make to 
pay loan 2 worked out as more than a quarter of his take home pay just for this loan alone  
and hed have to meet the contractual repayment schedule hed signed up to for this loan for 
6 months. This was such a significant proportion of his spending money each month that in 
reality, this loan, and any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him. 
So it follows that it was unlikely that Mr A would be able to make the monthly repayments on 
loan 2 without taking out another loan to pay this. And Myjar shouldnt have provided it to 
Mr A given what it could see about his financial circumstances. 
For these reasons, Im upholding Mr As complaint about loans 2 - 4.
Putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
 
A. add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A  towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2, 3 and 4, not including anything already refunded, as well as 
doing this on loan 5 (which Myjar has already offered to do).
 
B. calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled
 
C. pay Mr A the total of A plus B
 
D. remove any adverse information Myjar recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to 
loans 2 to 4, as well as for loan 5 as it has offered to do.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 My final decision
 I partly uphold Mr As complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman