DRN-3989623
The complaint
Mr C complains that Yieders Limited is withholding the funds he invested through its 
crowdfunding platform.
What happened
Mr C invested around £300 into an investment opportunity through Yielders Limiteds 
crowdfunding platform. The investment was in return for shares in a Special Purpose Vehicle 
(SPV) which owned three residential properties. These properties were to be rented and 
investors such as Mr C would receive a proportion of the rent by way of dividend payments. 
Mr C originally complained to Yielders Limited in March 2022 about it asking him for a copy 
of his bank statement when he requested to withdraw funds his account. Mr C then went on 
to raise concerns about the overall performance of his investment and he requested that his 
initial invested capital be returned.
Yielders looked into his complaint but didnt think it had acted unfairly. In summary, it said:
The request of bank statements from investors in order to add a bank account to their 
profile is company policy, in place for investor protection and based on the regulators 
guidelines.
The decision to sell one of the properties owned by the SPV was made in response 
to a duly executed investor vote taken on 22 June 2021 where investors backed the  
decision to disinvest without carrying out any remedial works to the property (due to 
the financial unfeasibility of repairing and re-tenanting the property).
It also explained that it was expecting to sell the remaining properties in the SPV at a 
capital gain after all liabilities have been accounted for and that the process was 
actively underway.
It confirmed Mr C had received dividends representing an overall return of 6.2% 
before the divestment process has been completed which is slightly short of the initial 
projections of a rental yield of around 6.26% per annum. This was due to significant 
issues faced during the Covid-19 pandemic which in turn resulted in void periods 
from which the investment was not fully able to recover.
Mr C remained unhappy and so he referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
An investigator at this service considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, 
they said:
Yielders Limited has an obligation to follow Knowing Your Customer industry 
requirements as well as to ensure Mr C is aware of the risks of investing.
Mr C wouldve been subject to security checks when signing up to the platform in 
which he would have been required to provide proof of ID as part of this process. 
Mr C must provide a copy of his bank statement to satisfy not just Yielders Limited 
but also its third-party payment provider, which is common practice within the 
industry.
They were satisfied Yielders Limited had done nothing to mislead Mr Cs 
expectations or understanding of how the investment would work.
They were satisfied Mr C understood from the outset that his capital would be 
invested for a fixed period or at least until the properties hed invested in were sold.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings as he felt it was unfair that Yielders Limited 
would require his bank statement now after investing with the platform and considering he 
didnt request its records when he first invested. He also felt he should be entitled to the 
funds he initially invested immediately. 
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope Mr C doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to each submission 
or every point he has raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to do that, but rather to 
explain my findings on the key issues. The crux of Mr Cs complaint is about the need to 
provide a bank statement to release what funds are available to withdraw from his 
investment, as well as his ability to withdraw all his investment immediately. Ill explain why I 
think Yielders Limited has acted fairly regarding both issues in turn.
Bank statement requirement
A financial firm is under many obligations. It has to look after the money and assets that its
clients entrust to it. And it has to comply with antimoney laundering and terrorist finance
requirements. Checking a clients identity has a role in relation to both. When financial firms 
make these checks it can be frustrating but there are good policy reasons for them. They are 
a necessary inconvenience.
Financial firms are required to take a risk-based approach and often use processes that try
to minimise the inconvenience to clients. That means in an area like crowdfunding, which 
can be time sensitive, the firm may accept instructions to invest an investors money without 
first making full checks. The firm can then make the necessary checks before releasing the 
sale proceeds. I understand that Mr C first deposited funds into his e-Wallet using a card 
payment and looking at Yielders Limiteds website, it doesnt say whether checks are 
required at this stage. However, the website does explain that checks are required when 
withdrawing:
How to withdraw funds
To withdraw funds from your eWallet the registration of your bank details is required, 
which is completed through providing the Yielders team with a recent bank statement 
dated within the last three months to team@yielders.co.uk. 
Please note: the address on your bank statement must match the address we hold 
on our records. If you have moved to a different address please also submit one of 
the valid proofs of address from this list: 
Utility Bill such as electricity/gas/water/council tax dated in the last 3 months
Tenancy Agreement with a future end date
Once your bank details have been registered you are able to withdraw your funds.Taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied Yielders Limited made Mr C aware that a 
bank statement would be required in order to withdraw his funds and that establishing proof 
of identity in this way isnt unusual or unreasonable. And so Im satisfied Mr C would need to 
provide this information before Yielders Limited is able to release any of his funds which are 
available to withdraw.
Withdrawing Mr Cs invested capital
I understand Mr C is also unhappy that hes unable to withdraw his invested capital in full. 
Yielders Limited has explained that Mr C is only able to access his funds when the 
properties within the SPV are sold. It says an investor vote was held on 22 June 2021 in 
which a majority voted to exit earlier that the five-year investment period. This resulted in 
one of the properties being sold and arrangements put in place to sell the remaining two. 
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the wider regulatory obligations on Yielders 
Limited. Yielders Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are 
set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here is:
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Yielders Limited was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligation here is: 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So Ive considered what information Yielders Limited provided to Mr C regarding the 
investment opportunity and how it would work. 
Mr C was provided with an investment memorandum before investing. Having reviewed this, 
I think it was made sufficiently clear to Mr C that his investment would be for minimum term 
of five years. And so he ought only have invested if he was happy to proceed knowing his 
investment may be tied up for this period. 
I understand that, prior to the vote for early exit, Mr C could have tried to sell his shares to 
another investor by way of Yielders Limiteds secondary market. However, Yielders Limited 
has explained that the Secondary Market for this SPV was suspended following the vote and 
so Mr C is unable to exit early. I think this is reasonable considering it wouldnt be fair for 
Yielders Limited to allow Mr C to sell an investment that is no longer performing as 
anticipated to another investor. Furthermore, this service isnt able to consider any of the 
shareholder decisions made within the SPV, which includes the vote to exit early. 
The investment memorandum also clearly explained the numerous risks associated with the 
investment, including the length of the investment and being obliged to accept votes in accordance with the articles of association, as well as the key risks associated with the 
performance of the investment.
So taking into account all of the above, Im also satisfied Yielders Limited clearly explained 
how Mr Cs investment would work, the key risks associated with it, as well as why its fair 
that he isnt able to access his invested capital immediately. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman