DRN-4216298
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the service she received from Coventry Building Society (CBS) 
surrounding a request she made to partially transfer an ISA.
What happened
Mrs H held an ISA with CBS. She then opened a second ISA with CBS via their website, and 
tried to complete a partial transfer from her first CBS ISA to her new CBS ISA. But the partial 
transfer instruction was unsuccessful because CBS dont allow internal (i.e. CBS to CBS) 
partial ISA transfers to be instructed online. 
Mrs H telephoned CBS to ask why she couldnt instruct the partial transfer online and was 
told she could send a secure message to CBS via their online banking platform to instruct 
the partial internal transfer. Accordingly, Mrs H sent a secure message to CBS that same 
day. But the next day she received a reply to her secure message from CBS which 
explained that they couldnt accept her partial transfer instruction via secure message and 
that Mrs H could provide the instruction either by telephone or posted form.
Mrs H asked for an ISA transfer form to be sent to her so that she could complete and return 
it. But she wasnt happy that CBS sent the form to her by second class post, which although 
Mrs H completed it and posted it back to CBS the day that she received it, meant that CBS 
didnt receive the completed form until four days after shed requested it, and five days after 
shed initially tried to instruct the partial ISA transfer.
Mrs H asked CBS to credit her recently opened ISA with five days of backdated interest 
because she felt CBSs errors had led to the delay in her money being moved into that 
account. But while CBS did credit Mrs Hs new ISA with one additional day of interest, 
because theyd responded to the secure message that Mrs H had sent the day after it was 
received by them, they didnt accept responsibility for the further delay of four days. Mrs H 
wasnt happy about this, and she also wasnt happy that CBS refused to allow her to close 
her ISA under the cooling-off period option. So, she raised a complaint.
CBS responded to Mrs Hs complaint and accepted that Mrs H shouldnt have been told that 
she could instruct a partial transfer via secure message. CBS apologised to Mrs H for this 
and backdated the interest on her account by one day. And CBS also made a payment of 
£50 to Mrs H as compensation for any trouble or upset she incurred as a result. But CBS 
didnt feel theyd done anything wrong regarding the other aspects of Mrs Hs complaint.  
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with CBSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response CBS had issued 
to Mrs Hs complaint already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mrs H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mrs H has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding 
her complaint. Id like to thank Mrs H for these submissions, and I hope she doesnt consider 
it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an 
informal dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mrs H notes that I havent addressed a specific point shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mrs H and CBS. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mrs H feels that she was misled by CBS regarding the fact that they dont accept online 
instructions for internal partial ISA transfers. But I dont agree, and I note that CBSs website 
confirms that such transfers cant be instructed online, as follows (my emphasis):
You can arrange a full or part ISA transfer from another organisation using Online 
Services. You can also complete an internal ISA transfer online too. If you cant 
access Online Services, or youd like to do a part internal transfer, you can call us 
or come into branch to ask us to do it for you.
Given that Mrs H applied for the new CBS ISA online, I feel that it was incumbent on her to 
have understood any restrictions that might have applied to the new ISA before she made 
her application for it. And Im also satisfied that whether CBS accept partial ISA transfers via 
any specific channel or not is a commercial decision that CBS are fairly entitled to make.
Accordingly, I dont accept Mrs Hs contention that CBS misled her about whether she could 
apply for a partial transfer to her new ISA online. Rather, I feel that Mrs H didnt take into 
consideration and understand the restrictions on the new ISA before she applied for it  as I 
feel it was reasonably incumbent on her to have done.
Mrs H feels that because CBS incorrectly told her that she could submit a partial transfer 
request by secure message, and didnt then respond to that secure message until  a day 
later, that they caused a one day delay in her money being credited to the new ISA. Mrs H 
also feels that because CBS then sent her the form she needed to compete to request the 
partial transfer via second class post that they caused a further four day delay.
CBS have accepted that their agent made a mistake when telling Mrs H that she could 
submit a partial transfer request by secure message. And they also accept that they did 
cause a delay of one day by not responding to Mrs Hs secure message until the day after it 
was received. CBS apologised to Mrs H for this, backdated the interest on her ISA by one 
day, and made a £50 compensation payment to her This feels fair to me, and I feel that by 
taking these actions CBS have already taken the corrective action necessary to put Mrs H 
into the position she should have been in, had that mistake never occurred. And I feel that 
CBS have already fairly compensated Mrs H for the impact of that specific mistake on her.I also dont feel CBS need to take any further action regarding the four-day delay which Mrs 
H contends occurred because CBS posted the ISA transfer form to her via second class 
post. This is because when CBS responded to Mrs Hs secure message, they offered Mrs H 
the opportunity to instruct the partial transfer via telephone. As such, I feel that Mrs H was 
offered the opportunity to instruct the partial transfer that same day  by telephone  and I 
feel that by choosing to provide the partial transfer instruction by form that Mrs H tacitly 
accepted responsibility for any delays that the receipt and return of that form might cause.
Im aware that Mrs H feels that CBS were required to send the ISA transfer form to her by 
first class post. But this isnt the case, and the obligation Mrs H refers to here is a lender-to-
lender obligation whereby lenders are required to send an ISA transfer form to another 
lender by first class post. But in this instance the transfer was internal to CBS, so no form 
needed to be sent to another lender. And there is no obligation on a lender to send a form to 
an account holder by first class post as Mrs H appears to have believed.
Finally, Mrs H is unhappy that CBS wont allow her to close her new ISA under the 14-day 
cooling off period. But Mrs H didnt make any request to close her new ISA within 14 days of 
it being opened. 
Mrs H has explained that she did ask CBS to backdate the interest for the further four days, 
as discussed above, and that she only made the request to close the account after CBS 
rejected this request, which took longer than 14-days. But I dont feel that CBS should 
reasonably be asked to extend the cooling off period because Mrs H is unhappy that they 
didnt agree to her request to backdate interest. And I feel that this is especially the case 
given that, as explained above, I dont feel that Mrs Hs request for the further four-day 
backdating of interest was a reasonable request.
All of which means that I feel that the response that CBS have issued to Mrs Hs complaint 
already represents a fair outcome to that complaint. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing CBS to take any further action here. I realise this 
wont be the outcome Mrs H was wanting, but I hope shell understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman