DRN-4152805
The complaint
Mr H complains about the premium HDI Global Specialty SE charged for the renewal of his 
lifetime pet insurance policy.
HDI, as the underwriter of the insurance contract, is responsible for this complaint and 
references to HDI also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for his dog with HDI in November 2019 at an 
annual premium of around £240. When he received the renewal documentation in 2021, he 
complained as the premium quoted was just over £1,160. HDI explained the premium was 
correct and based on a number of factors.
Unhappy at the increase in premium and concerned HDI was trying to recover their losses 
on claims made previously by Mr H, he brought his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
Mr H says he expected some increases in line with his dogs age and other factors such as 
his living circumstances. However, he feels the policy is purposefully being made 
unaffordable and yet he cant move insurers because the skin condition claimed for in the 
first policy year would be considered a pre-existing condition on any new policy and 
excluded from cover. Mr H says the cost of the insurance isnt far from outweighing the cost 
of the medication needed for his dog and insuring him without cover for the skin condition. 
Mr H doesnt feel this is fair and hed like HDI to set a reasonable premium rise relating to his 
dogs age and breed. He considers to be in the region of £500-£600 as he says this would 
be the cost of a new lifetime policy for his pet without a pre-existing condition.
The Investigator looked into matters and thought the premiums had been calculated 
correctly. However, he didnt feel HDI made it sufficiently clear to Mr H when the policy 
started in 2019 that the increases could be so large. Given the shock this wouldve caused, 
the Investigator recommended HDI pay Mr H £200 as compensation.
HDI responded to accept the Investigators recommendation. Mr H disagreed. He says the 
effect of the premium increase takes into account the claims for his dogs skin condition 
which means its effectively not operating as a lifetime policy. And hes no better off 
financially than if hed taken out a cheaper policy and paid for the skin condition medication 
separately. He explains the compensation recommended by the Investigator isnt enough to 
cover the increased cost he must pay for this policy.
The Investigator and Mr H communicated about the points raised but they didnt change the 
Investigators view. As Mr H didnt agree, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lifetime policies
Firstly, I thought it helpful to explain standard pet insurance policies wont usually cover any 
medical condition a pet had received treatment for or shown prior symptoms of when the 
policy was taken out. And, at renewal, ongoing or recurring medical conditions from the 
previous policy year wont usually be covered once the initial 12 months cover for any such 
condition has expired. However, there are some pet insurance policies which do continue to 
cover any medical conditions claimed for in previous years for as long as the policy is 
renewed and premiums continue to be paid, known as lifetime policies.
Lifetime policies are usually more expensive than standard policies as they provide a greater 
level of cover. But there are also different considerations around the long-term cost and 
cover for customers with these policies. This is because the cost doesnt stay the same for 
the life of the policy and will generally increase each year at renewal as the pet gets older 
and theres more risk of a claim being made at a higher cost to the insurer as the cost of 
veterinary treatment goes up. The cost of the policy can also increase due to claims, 
changes in insurance premium tax or if an insurer re-evaluates the risk. As mentioned, with a 
lifetime policy, such as the one Mr H took out, the insurer covers any conditions the pet 
develops on an ongoing basis for the rest of their lives  for as long as the policy is renewed, 
and premiums paid. Providing this cover is likely to be expensive and the yearly cost of 
these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal. 
Increased Premium for 2021
Mr H is unhappy with the premium charged for the renewal of his lifetime policy. In particular, 
hes concerned the claims history has been taken into account which isnt what he feels a 
lifetime policy should do. 
I can understand why Mr H has complained the increase in premium isnt fair given the cost 
of the policy more than doubled from 2019 to 2021. Ive therefore thought about whether the 
increase has been correctly calculated by HDI. To do this, I must take into account insurers 
are entitled to decide how much to charge for the risks its policies cover, and this will be 
based on the risk it considers a customer presents. Its up to the insurer how much the 
premium increases by and its common for this to vary from year to year. As this is a 
commercial decision, I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should cost 
 this is because its not my role to tell an insurer how it should operate its business. So, I 
cant say the cost of Mr Hs policy is too high or that he should be charged less in the future. 
The policy terms from when Mr H first took out the lifetime policy 2019 allow HDI to change 
the premium at renewal. It states the factors which influence the increase including claims 
history but also expected future treatment and claims costs. It goes on to say, in general, the 
premiums increase with the age of your pet and if claims have been made. So, I consider it 
was made clear this is how premiums would be calculated. Ive also seen underwriting 
guidance to show how this has been applied in Mr Hs case. And I havent seen evidence to 
suggest HDI treated him differently to how it wouldve treated any other policy holder in the 
same position.
When deciding how much to charge for its policies, insurers will assess how likely it is their 
policyholders will make a claim and how much it might have to pay out for those claims. 
Each insurer will make that assessment in their own way.
The Investigator explained some of the factors an insurer, such as HDI, considers when 
assessing risk and calculating premiums. These include factors like the increasing cost of vets fees, insurance premium tax, and other underwriting changes. And its assessment of 
those factors will affect all its customers in a similar way. Then there are other specific 
factors that will affect Mr H and those who have dogs who present similar specific risks. That 
includes things like the dogs age and  following a claim  the risk of a condition recurring. 
In this case, Mr H made several claims for his dogs treatment, including claims for the skin 
condition. And its clear these affected the risk HDI considered Mr Hs dog presented. So it 
reflected that risk in Mr Hs premium calculation. That is something its allowed to do. Given 
the size of the increase, I can understand why Mr H wasnt happy with it, and Ive considered 
his comments about the cost of the medication when compared to the cost of the insurance. 
But that doesnt mean HDI has done anything wrong. Its also important to note, the policy 
covers more than the pre-existing skin condition. It also covers other conditions and matters 
Mr Hs dog needs treatment for, and this isnt time limited like standard policies, the cover is 
on an ongoing basis (for as long as the policy continues).
I appreciate Mr H feels this means the policy isnt a lifetime policy as it takes into account 
claims made. But, as explained above, its entitled to do this. 
So, while I appreciate the renewal quote it offered Mr H in 2021 was a significant increase on 
the 2019 and 2020 premiums, I dont think HDI has done anything wrong here by offering 
insurance to Mr H at the premium it has.
The sale of the policy to Mr H in 2019
Insurers have a duty to provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. I think the 
wording in the policy terms and conditions makes it clear premiums are not fixed and are 
subject to change (increase) over the life of the policy. Mr H acknowledges he anticipated 
this would happen but didnt realise it would take into account claims made. However, I 
havent seen any evidence from Mr H to support this was as a result of something HDI did or 
failed to do when he took out the policy with it online. Notwithstanding this, HDI have 
accepted the Investigators recommendation to compensate Mr H because the information 
could have been clearer. I agree it couldve highlighted the premium will almost certainly 
increase year on year and, as the pet gets older, these increases can be significant. 
Further, it couldve made clear the increases are not capped so theres no limit on how 
much the policy might increase by.
So, I accept the information at the point of sale didnt highlight the extent to which premiums 
might increase. That said, I consider it likely Mr H would still have taken out the policy even if 
this had been made clear. He wanted the more comprehensive cover offered by a lifetime 
policy and found and bought this himself online. If hed looked for a policy elsewhere, it 
wouldve also been subject to increased premiums in a similar way to this policy with HDI 
where claims are taken into account. 
In the circumstances of the case, I consider the £200 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused because the information about the size of premium increases could 
have been clearer is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr H says this doesnt cover the cost of the increased premium, this isnt 
what it is intended to do. Instead, its to compensate him for the shock of the size of the 
increased premium in a situation where the Investigator thought this hadnt been made 
sufficiently clear to him in 2019.
In summary, I can understand why Mr H found the price rise difficult to bear. But I dont think 
HDI calculated his premium unfairly or made a mistake in calculating his premium. I think it treated him the same as other customers in a similar position, as wed expect it to. This 
means I dont uphold the main part of his complaint. I recognise Mr H will be disappointed 
with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with HDI  
can do for him.
Putting things right
To put things right, HDI Global Specialty SE must pay Mr H £200 in compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. HDI Global Specialty SE must 
take the step outlined above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman