DRN-3036227
The complaint
Mr H complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat was irresponsible in its lending 
to him.
What happened
Mr H was provided with two loans by Cashfloat, the details are set out below.
Loan Amount Instalments Date Repaid
1 £300 3 12/10/2018 19/12/2018
2 £300 1 14/02/2019 27/03/2019
Mr H says that at the time of the loans he had taken out several other loans with other short 
term loan providers. He says he was taking out new loans in order to repay other debts.
Cashfloat said that before any loan is provided it carries out affordability and credit 
worthiness checks. It says information is gathered from the consumer and the figures 
received are verified against other third party data. It says its affordability checks take into 
account other outstanding borrowing and that loans are only provided if the consumer has a 
reasonable buffer of disposable income above their credit commitments and other living 
expenses.
Cashfloat says that based on the information it received, the loans were affordable for Mr H. 
It says that the pattern of Mr Hs borrowing didnt raise any concerns and that Mr H scored 
highly on its proprietary credit scorecard.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. They thought that the information gathered at the time 
of the first loan showed Mr H was having problems managing his money. Mr H had multiple 
outstanding loans with other short-term lenders at the time and they thought Cashfloat ought 
to have realised it was unlikely Mr H wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan  and 
any subsequent loans.
Cashfloat didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that the regulations didnt state that 
a consumer couldnt have other loans outstanding at the time of borrowing but that the 
repayments needed to be affordable and sustainable. It said that Mr H was at the early stage 
of his lending relationship with it having only been provided with two loans. It said the 
information it received suggested the repayments were affordable. It also noted there was a 
two month gap between the loans and that the loans were repaid on time or early and that 
Mr H didnt mention any financial difficulties at the time.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before the first loan was provided to Mr H, information was gathered about his 
income and expenses and a credit check took place. I thought these checks were 
proportionate so long as the results didnt raise any further concerns.
The results from the credit check showed some adverse information on Mr Hs credit 
file. There were historic defaults noted from 2013 and one default recorded in 2017. 
There were also other loans outstanding at the time. However, the credit report 
showed that repayments were being made on all loans and that one of the finance 
house loans was due to be repaid in October 2018. That said I thought the 
repayments on all loans recorded at that time should have been included in Mr Hs 
outgoings. However, I found that had this happened loan 1 would still have appeared 
affordable. Therefore, I didnt think I have enough to say the first loan shouldnt have 
been provided.
Mr H repaid the first loan early and took out a second loan for the same amount just 
under two months later. This loan was repayable in a single instalment of just under 
£400. Before the loan was provided Mr Hs income and expenses were checked. 
These suggested he had a disposable income of £1,110. However, the credit check 
undertaken at this time showed that Mr H had five other loans outstanding. Two of 
these were taken out in January 2019, one in December 2018 and one in November 
2018. I thought this should have raised concerns that Mr H was struggling to manage 
his money. 
I looked at the regular repayment amounts recorded for the five loans in the credit 
report and these totalled over £2,000. While I noted that some of the payments may 
have been one off, others were being made over several months. The credit file 
showed credit commitment payments significantly higher than Mr H had declared 
(loan payments of £50 and other commitments of £75) and I thought a higher amount 
should have been included in Cashfloats assessment. Had this happened, I found 
that the loan repayment on this second loan wouldnt have been affordable. 
I didnt think that Cashfloat should have considered loan 2 sustainably affordable and 
said I intended to uphold this complaint in regard to loan 2.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision and no further information was received from 
Cashfloat. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Having carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context - and as I set out in my provisional decision - I do not find that I have enough to say 
that loan 1 shouldnt have been provided. However, I think the credit report undertaken at 
the time of loan 2 raised concerns about how Mr H was managing his money and also the 
affordability of the repayment of this loan. Therefore, as I have previously explained I am 
upholding this complaint in regard to loan 2.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided loan 2 to Mr H.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Therefore, I find that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr H paid on loan 2 along with interest of 8% 
simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded about loan 2 from Mr H's credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 2. Western Circle Ltd trading 
as Cashfloat should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman