DRN-2694660
The complaint
Mr A complains that esure Insurance Limited told him there was no cover on the legal 
expenses section of a motor insurance policy when he wanted to make a claim.
What happened
Mr A insured a car with esure. Mr A was in a legal dispute with the manufacturer due to a 
defect with the car, and contacted esure seeking to make a claim under the legal expenses 
section of his policy.
esure said that the policy didnt cover the circumstances of Mr As claim. The policy provided 
cover for costs incurred in recovering uninsured losses following an accident, but Mr As 
dispute with the manufacturer was about a defect. 
As Mr A was unhappy with esures decision, he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think that any section of Mr As policy provided cover for the 
circumstances hed described. Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions which outline the circumstances in which esure 
will cover legal expenses incurred by the policyholder. The relevant terms and conditions for 
the purposes of this complaint say:
Uninsured losses
We will cover, up to the indemnity limit, your costs for recovering any uninsured losses you
incur which arise directly from any road traffic accident which was partly or wholly the fault of
another party which involves your car.
Based on this wording, Im satisfied that this section doesnt provide cover for the 
circumstances which have led to Mr As claim. Hes in dispute with the manufacturer of his 
car due to a mechanical defect. 
Mr A says that his circumstances should be described as an accident. I dont agree. 
Accident isnt defined within the policy, so I need to consider the ordinary meaning of this 
word. In this context, Im satisfied that this should be interpreted as a collision (either with 
another vehicle or object) or some other sudden, external force on the car (for example 
something falling onto the vehicle). I dont think that a mechanical defect of a car, causing it 
to not work in the intended way, could reasonably be described as an accident. 
Mr A has pointed to a number of legal cases which he says support his position that the 
mechanical defect and its effects should be considered an accident but from what Ive seen, 
none of these support a suggestion that a mechanical defect should be considered an 
accident. 
In any event to be able to claim, Mr Y would need to show the claim arises directly from a 
road traffic accident and that the accident that caused the damage to his car. Road traffic 
accident isnt defined in the policy, but the ordinary definition of a road traffic accident would 
refer to a collision. That isnt what happened here. Mr Ys claim doesn t arise from a road 
traffic accident.
I dont consider that the policy provides any cover for legal expenses incurred by Mr A in 
taking action against the manufacturer of his car in relation to a mechanical defect.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman