DRN-1801452
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) incorrectly recorded 
her address with a credit reference agency and sent correspondence addressed to her to 
those incorrect addresses. To settle the complaint Miss B is asking for compensation of 
£4,000 and evidence that Nationwide asked the credit reference agency to remove the 
incorrect information.
What happened
This complaint concerns the incorrect registration of Miss Bs address. In order to preserve 
Miss Bs anonymity, I will keep my summary of the complaint very brief.
Miss B is a mortgage customer of Nationwide and her complaint is about mistakes made by 
Nationwide in registering information with credit reference agencies. Miss B had first raised 
her concerns about this with Nationwide in September 2018, when Nationwide admitted it 
had made an error and offered compensation of £300 for its mistake.  In November 2019 
Miss B contacted Nationwide again because shed learned that in correct information was 
still showing in her credit file. 
In December 2019 Nationwide contacted one of the credit reference agencies (TransUnion) 
and asked for two incorrect addresses registered against Miss Bs name to be removed. 
Nationwide considered that this resolved the matter and offered Miss B a further £75 
compensation, which Miss B rejected.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Miss B brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint. He thought that the issue did 
not appear to have been resolved with the credit reference agencies and in March 2020 he 
asked Nationwide to pay further compensation of £375  so £750 in total. He also asked 
Nationwide to provide evidence that her address information had been amended.
Nationwide didnt agree with the investigators findings. It explained that it didnt think Miss B 
had been caused any detriment by the incorrect registration of her address. Nationwide also 
said that correspondence sent to another address had Miss Bs name on it, so Nationwide 
cant say if anyone opened it. Nationwide said that the credit reference agencies it had 
access to showed Miss Bs address as now being correct.
Nationwide asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman as it didnt think it should 
have to pay any further compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats happened isnt in dispute here  Nationwide accepts that it incorrectly recorded two 
addresses for Miss B. But Nationwide says that it contacted the TransUnion to correct this. 
Miss B says that the matter was not resolved even though Nationwide claimed it was.
After bringing her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Miss B also lodged a 
complaint with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
On 28 May 2020, after reviewing Miss Bs credit file, the Information Commissioner upheld 
Miss Bs complaint. The ICO made the following findings:
I am of the view that Nationwide have not complied with their data protection 
obligations. This is because they have failed to rectify inaccurate data recorded on 
your credit file I have now written to Nationwide about this matter informing them of 
our view  I have also advised them of the steps they need to take to prevent this 
from happening again and reminded them of the need to ensure that if they have 
agreed that data is inaccurate, they instruct the credit reference agencies to remove 
it. As it appears that this did not happen in the case of TransUnion they need to 
establish why it remained on your credit file after they told you it would be removed. I 
have also asked them to contact TransUnion (if they have not already done so) to get 
the inaccurate addresses removed from your file
The ICO made findings of fact that Nationwide had not, by 28 May 2020, resolved the 
matter. In the circumstances, I am entitled to treat the ICOs findings as true and accurate,.
Ive seen the email exchange with Nationwide and TransUnion from December 2019. 
Nationwide asks for two addresses for Miss B to be removed from TransUnions records. In 
reply, TransUnion confirms that the address link has been removed and also says Please 
ensure that any related data is changed on your monthly submissions to ensure that our 
correction is not overridden. 
I dont know if Nationwide changed the information on its monthly submissions. But given 
that by 28 May 2020 the ICO needed to write to Nationwide to tell it to change the 
information it was recorded, it is reasonable to assume it had not. I note that this is two 
months after the investigator issued his findings on the complaint in March 2020.
Putting things right
In the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that a further payment for trouble and 
upset  over and above the £375 already paid  should be made. I think a further £375 is fair 
and reasonable and is proportionate to the errors made and the impact on Miss B. 
I appreciate Miss B wants substantially more compensation, but I am not persuaded that she 
has suffered any financial detriment and so a total payment of £750 is fair in my opinion for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by Nationwide. 
Miss B tells us that she didnt cash the cheque for £75 sent in late 2019. If that cheque has 
expired, then Nationwide should cancel it and include the additional £75 on top of the 
additional £375 I am ordering Nationwide to pay to Miss B, if she accepts this final decision.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Nationwide 
Building Society must pay Miss B a total of £750 compensation  including £375 already 
paid (and with the proviso above regarding the cheque for £75 sent in 2019). I make no 
other order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman