DRN-3420446
The complaint
Mr P, on behalf of the estate of the late Ms P, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC was 
irresponsible in opening a credit card account with a balance limit of £2,000.
What happened
Ms P lost her job in September 2012 and according to Mr P she received benefits of £73 a 
week to live on. Ms P opened the Lloyds credit card account in March 2015. Mr P has told 
this service that he discovered she had numerous credit cards and by the time she took out 
the Lloyds card she had available credit of £58,600. 
He complained to Lloyds, but it said he was out of time to make a complaint since more than 
six years had passed since the account was opened. However, as a goodwill gesture it sent 
him a cheque of £364.36 which was the interest due in the last 12 months. 
Mr P brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted Lloyds had said the debt had 
been written off, but after seeking clarification he discovered that it had not been at that 
point.
After reviewing he application process he was satisfied that the bank had carried out 
sufficient due diligence checks. Mr P didnt agree and said Lloyds should have checked his 
sisters bank statements and any credit check would have shown up her other borrowing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the information supplied to the bank by Ms P and at the additional 
information it sought before opening the account. I have to be satisfied that the checks it 
carried were proportionate and reasonable given the account being opened. The account 
carried a modest limit of £2,000 and was unsecured with a standard credit card rate of 
interest.
The Lending Code required the bank to assess if Ms P could repay the lending in a 
sustainable manner. It has to consider amongst other things: 
The type and amount of credit being sought.
How the customer has handled their finances in the past;
Internal credit scoring techniques (if used by the subscriber);
The customers declared income;
Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and
Any security provided.
Lloyds carried out its own internal review relying on details provided by Ms P and information 
from the credit reference agencies. It did not seek bank statements and it is not required to 
do under the law, good banking practice or current regulations for the opening of a credit 
card. It took its decision to do so after being satisfied based on the income Ms P had 
declared, and her credit score was satisfactory. It was not obliged to check her salary and it 
was entitled to rely on the accuracy of the information she provided.
If the other background checks had given the bank cause for concern it may have chosen to 
seek further details about her salary, but it had no reason to do so.
Ms P maintained her minimum payments having used the card to clear other debt and only 
using it for purchases more than four years after the account was opened.
I can understand Mr Ps surprise at finding his sisters extensive debt and his 
disappointment, but I consider Lloyds carried out the relevant and proportionate checks it 
was required to when opening the account and I cannot say it has done anything wrong.
Lloyds has said that Mr P should speak to its bereavement team about settling the debt if the 
estate is able to fund this. 
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £364.36 to settle the complaint. Mr P 
should contact Lloyds Bank PLC directly if he now wishes to accept this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman