DRN-3456150
The complaint
Mr K complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC decision to review and subsequently close his
accounts.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr K received a large payment into his Barclays account. Mr Ks 
mother, remortgaged a property and transferred around £150,000 from her account to Mr 
Ks. Following this, Mr K made a number of internal transfers between his Barclays 
accounts. He also issued a cheque of around £20,000 to his brother.
Around October 2018, Barclays decided to review Mr Ks account as they had concerns 
about a large transfer into the account, and subsequent movement of funds. While 
Barclays carried out their review, they blocked Mr Ks account in its entirety. As part of 
their review, Barclays asked Mr K to prove his entitlement to the money which had 
entered his account. Mr K sent Barclays evidence showing his mother had sent him the 
money  but Barclays werent satisfied. They asked where Mr Ks mother had got the 
money from so Mr K had to spend time getting statements from solicitors to show the 
property transaction.
In November 2018, Barclays made the decision to close Mr Ks accounts and end their 
banking relationship with him. Mr Ks accounts closed immediately, but he still didnt have 
access to the money held in his account.
Barclays were unsure of where the money was located at one point which Mr K says caused 
him severe worry.
In January 2019, Barclays released the funds to Mr K  and he withdrew them on 14 
January 2019.
Mr K complained and explained that this situation caused him a great deal of distress. He
said not having access to his money, or his accounts put a lot of pressure on him and his 
family as they were financially dependent on him. Mr K also said he spent a lot of time 
chasing Barclays by making phone calls and branch visits. Mr K wanted compensation  
and also wanted to know why Barclays took the actions they did. He was concerned that 
Barclays had made a discriminatory decision to review his accounts.
Barclays answered Mr Ks complaint and offered him £650 due to the length of time it took 
for him to access his funds, and any interest he may have lost on them. Unhappy with 
things, Mr K brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt ask Barclays to do anything more. In summary, he said;
There was nothing to suggest Barclays had reviewed Mr Ks account because of 
a discriminatory reason. It was solely due to a large payment coming into the 
account, and then Mr K moving the money around.
Barclays should have given Mr K 60 days notice to close his account, rather 
than closing it immediately.
If Barclays had given 60 days notice like they should have, it likely would 
have resulted in less branch visits, phone calls etc. from Mr K.
He recognised that at one point, Barclays were unsure of where the funds were 
held, but as Mr K now has access to them that point had been cleared up.
Overall, he thought the £650 total compensation offered by Barclays was a 
fair amount in the circumstances.
Mr K didnt agree with things and asked for him complaint to be escalated for further 
review. Therefore, the decision has been passed to me to review.
I asked Barclays to clarify what the £650 compensation offer consisted of. Barclays 
confirmed £344.58 of this was the compensatory interest and £305.42 was for the 
distress, inconvenience and call costs incurred.
In Mr Ks further submissions to our service, he included the main points he was 
unhappy about. Ive summarised them below:
Barclays not informing Mr K his account was frozen, taking longer than 10 days to 
review it and having to make many calls to Barclays and them not being very 
helpful  he says he couldnt make a complaint.
Mr K was asked to go into a Barclays branch with two forms of ID which he did  
but when he arrived, the branch staff wasnt aware of why hed been asked to go 
to branch with ID. They explained he needed to supply proof of funds.
Barclays werent satisfied with the proof of funds Mr K supplied  they wanted 
to know where Mr Ks mother got the money from to be able to send to him.
Barclays made the decision to close the account prematurely and only referred to
internal requirements. Mr K doesnt agree this is fair.
Mr K was still receiving emails confirming his statements were ready to view while 
his account was blocked  but he couldnt log on to access his statements.
Mr K doesnt agree the terms and conditions allow Barclays to block the account or 
hold on to the money in it. And he thinks they should have returned the money to 
him sooner than they did.
Mr K says his credit rating declined after this issue and feels Barclays is 
responsible for that. He also wants to know why Barclays were happy to keep his 
credit card open.
Barclays wasnt aware of where Mr Ks money was at one point. Mr K says this 
concerned him as if Barclays went into insolvency  how would he get his 
money?
Mr K wanted a copy of his statements sent in colour with a verification 
stamp, signature, and date.
Mr K also asked our service to review the percentage of Barclays accounts 
facing internal review from particular customer groups.
Overall, Mr K thought the compensation offered was too low.
Mr K also raised a further point relating to Barclays not removing his number from a 
payment application. I cant see this issue has ever been raised with Barclays beforehand, and therefore I wont be able to comment on it as part of my findings. If this is something 
which is a concern for Mr K, I recommend he raise it with Barclays directly.
In March 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Ive noted that Mr K has made a number of quite detailed submissions. Ive considered all 
of these, but I dont believe its necessary to address each and every point that Mr K has 
made in order to meet my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im required to do that 
with minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most 
important. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr K and Barclays have 
said before reaching my provisional decision.
Barclays review of Mr Ks account
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats 
happened, Im satisfied Barclays was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations 
when they reviewed Mr Ks account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong.
I appreciate Barclays didnt tell Mr K about the review  but they dont have to. As part of 
their review, Barclays asked Mr K for detailed information about the money in his account 
and where it came from  which theyre entitled to do under their obligations. I appreciate 
Mr K feels he shouldnt have had to provide information from where his mothers money 
came from  and he thinks Barclays should have accepted the information he supplied 
initially.
Having reviewed everything, I do think Barclays requests were reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ultimately it is Barclays who decide what information they do or do not 
require as part of a due diligence review and they have a duty to protect their customers 
money and understand where it came from. Because of that, while I recognise Mr Ks 
upset around this, I cant fairly conclude Barclays acted inappropriately.
Barclays took longer than the 10 days they initially told Mr K they would take to carry out the 
review. I dont doubt this would have been really inconvenient for Mr K. While we dont 
usually state a timeframe in which a review should be completed, we would expect for it to 
be completed without any undue delays. From the evidence received, it appears Barclays 
made the decision to close Mr Ks account before they finalised their review. I also recognise 
the inconvenience caused to Mr K to be asked to attend branch with two forms of ID and be 
met by branch staff who wasnt aware of why Mr K had been asked to attend. Its also 
apparent Mr K spent time making phone calls trying to resolve the issue. Therefore, I do find
the time Barclays took to fully complete their review unreasonable and feel Mr K should be
compensated for this alongside the confusion caused as part of the review.
Mr K has commented that he feels Barclays racially profiled and discriminated against him.
This is a serious allegation Mr K has made, and one Ive considered carefully. Im satisfied
Barclays reviewed Mr Ks account due to the incoming large transfer and subsequent
movements of the money. Im pleased to see they then requested information from Mr K
relating to their concerns about the incoming payment. Because of this, Ive seen no
evidence of discrimination being applied against Mr K for any of his protected characteristics,
including his race. I hope its reassured Mr K that somebody impartial has considered this
allegation and found no evidence to support it.
I also note Mr K would like our service to investigate the percentage of accounts Barclayshas reviewed. However, my decision is limited to the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint only
 and therefore, I wont be commenting on anything which falls outside of this complaint.
Account closure
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr K decided to stop banking with Barclays, he wouldnt
have to explain why. However, Barclays can only close accounts in certain circumstances
and if its in the terms and conditions of the account. Barclays have relied on the terms and
conditions when closing Mr Ks account. The terms explain that the bank can close the
account immediately  or give notice of around 60 days.
Ive considered the full circumstances of this complaint and I agree a notice period of 60
days would have been more appropriate than an immediate closure. I think the two months
would have given Mr K sufficient time to make alternative banking arrangements and would
have prevented him chasing Barclays for updates.
Mr Ks credit rating
Mr K is concerned that following the account closure, his credit file rating declined. Mr K
strongly believes this was linked to Barclays actions. I can appreciate why Mr K feels this
way. However, having reviewed the full circumstances, Ive seen nothing to suggest that
Barclays played any part in any deterioration of Mr Ks credit file so I cant fairly uphold the
complaint on this point.
Access to money
Mr K couldnt access his money from around 13 November 2018  when Barclays first
blocked the account up until 14 January 2019. He says this caused him and his family
significant distress as his family were financially dependent on him. While I can appreciate
why Mr K sees he and his family as one and the same, I can only consider the impact on Mr
K as an individual as he was Barclays sole customer. I recognise Mr Ks family members
may have also held accounts with Barclays, but within the circumstances of this complaint
alone, Mr K was the only account holder.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr K to realise he couldnt use his account.
And I appreciate this would have put him in a financially challenging position because he
didnt have access to his funds. But a bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account
will be readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations with which they have to
comply. Barclays confirmed that Mr K was able to access and withdraw money from his 
salary, so I find he had access to enough money to allow him to continue to meet basic
needs.
However, Ive no doubt Mr K continuing to receive emails advising him that his online
statements were ready to view and then finding he couldnt access them would have been
frustrating. It appears Barclays made the decision to close the account on the same day the
blocked it and initiated the review, so I consider they should have stopped all other
marketing and correspondence unless specifically relating to the review itself.
Mr K said he was concerned at one point when Barclays didnt know where his money was
located. I havent seen any evidence of this conversation, however, Ive no doubt it would
have caused concern. That being said, Barclays didnt lose Mr Ks money  or become
insolvent like Mr K has referred to in his submissions. Im not able to make my findings
based on hindsight and therefore can only consider what did happen. Mr K did receive his
money  albeit later than he likely should have.Mr Ks credit card
Mr K is unhappy that Barclays made the decision to close his current account but keep his
credit card account open. Barclays have confirmed that Mr Ks credit card account was held
with a different legal entity to Barclays and therefore, the two accounts are in no way linked
and Barclays wouldnt have any influence on that account.
So, overall, I thought Barclays service fell short when reviewing and subsequently closing 
Mr Ks account. I found their decision to review the account to be fair  but not their 
decision to close it without notice. And I thought the delays in Mr K receiving the money 
was unreasonable.
I thought Barclays should pay Mr K a total of £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  and pay 8% simple interest on the money withheld from Mr K in 
addition.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision and agreed to pay the increased level of 
compensation. Mr K didnt add any further comments or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any further arguments, or supplied any additional evidence, I see 
no reason to depart from my initial findings which Ive explained above.
Putting things right
Barclays should recognise the distress and inconvenience they caused Mr K by closing his 
account without notice by paying him a total compensation payment of £750. And to 
recognise the time Mr K was without his money, Barclays should calculate interest at 8% 
simple on the funds withheld and pay this to Mr K in addition to the compensation payment. 
Mr K has also asked for his statements to be sent to him in colour, with a verification stamp,
signature, and date. Im not aware of what facility Barclays has to issue a verification stamp
on statements but I do urge them to supply Mr K with colour copies of his statements as he
has asked.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld from Mr K. They
should calculate this from the date they blocked the account up to the date Mr K had
access to the money.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to withhold income tax
from the above-mentioned interest. Barclays should give Mr K a certificate showing
how much tax is taken off if Mr K asks for one.
Pay Mr K a total of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. If
Barclays have already made a payment of £650 to Mr K following their own review of 
the complaint and suggestion of compensation, then they are only required to pay the difference of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman