DRN-3195619
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has dealt with a claim 
made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have explained that they booked a holiday abroad in November 2019, for the 
following year. The trip was due to take place from 2 April 2020, with a return date of 16 April 
2020. Mr and Mrs K have explained they purchased their flights, and paid a deposit for some 
of the accommodation they would be staying in. The cost of the flights was £3,774.72 and 
the accommodation deposit was £414.02. 
Mr and Mrs K explained that the plan was to go on holiday with other family members, who 
would meet them at their destination. Some of these family members were coming from the 
UK, and others were coming from a different country of residence.
Unfortunately, because of the global coronavirus pandemic, and restrictions on travel, Mr 
and Mrs K were no longer able to travel. Mr and Mrs K attempted to get a cash refund for 
their flights and deposit from the relevant providers. Theyve explained this wasnt 
successful. So, they made a claim under their travel insurance policy, to recover their losses.
 
UKI looked into the claim and said it wasnt able to provide settlement to Mr and Mrs K for 
their flights. They noted that Mr and Mrs Ks insurance policy only covered losses that were 
irrecoverable  and they didnt consider this was the case with the flights. The reason being 
that Mr and Mrs K had been offered the option to reschedule their flights, or to receive 
vouchers by the airline provider, which could be used until December 2021.
It did agree to provide settlement for the accommodation Mr and Mrs K paid. So, it provided 
them with £394.02  which was the cost of the deposit, minus the excess payable.
Mr and Mrs K were dissatisfied with this. They felt the offer from the flight provider didnt 
make this loss recoverable. They said only a cash refund was acceptable. UKI maintained its 
position on the matter. Because Mr and Mrs K remained dissatisfied, they referred their 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She noted 
that the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ks policy did provide cover  but only for losses 
not recoverable elsewhere. And that UKI had provided a settlement for the irrecoverable 
deposit Mr and Mrs K had paid. 
In terms of the flights  the investigator considered that UKI had acted fairly by saying the 
offer made to Mr and Mrs K by the airline meant the loss was recoverable elsewhere. She 
said the airlines offer allowed Mr and Mrs K to reschedule their trip or have these travel 
vouchers  with a deadline of 31 December 2021 for these to be used. Our investigator 
didnt consider the vouchers to be overly restrictive, with Mr and Mrs K being able to rebook 
their holiday or travel elsewhere. 
Our investigator noted that at the time of writing there were restrictions on entering the 
country Mr and Mrs K had intended to visit. But noted there was time for the regulations to 
change. And if the airline provider didnt extend the deadline for use of its offer she noted 
that Mr and Mrs K should inform UKI of this, so it could reconsider the matter. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. In summary, they said the offer from the airline was of no use to 
them. Mr and Mrs K explained that the airline no longer facilitated direct flights to London. 
And they said they said it was difficult to now go on the same holiday again. They explained 
this was because the children going on holiday from the UK, and the family members coming 
from abroad had different school terms, and now the children were transitioning to 
secondary school it was difficult for them all to go on holiday at the same time. 
Because Mr and Mrs K didnt agree, their complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
Whilst awaiting a final decision, our investigator asked Mr and Mrs K whether they had since 
made us of the airlines offer  to which they confirmed they hadnt. Our investigator also 
asked whether the deadline of the offer had since been extended by the airline. Mr and Mrs 
K confirmed that the flight providers website confirmed the offer extended  with it being 
possible to use the voucher up to 31 December 2023, with the need to book this use by 31 
December 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought 
about whether UKI, in declining to provide Mr and Mrs K with settlement for their flights, did 
so fairly. And Im satisfied it did.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ks policy documents, which detail the terms and conditions of 
their policy. And I can see that Mr and Mrs K provides them with cover for cancellation 
claims, where they were unable to travel due to the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO) advise against all, or all but essential travel, in the 
circumstances they found themselves in. It isnt disputed by either party that Mr and Mrs K 
couldnt travel due to FCDO advice, and this section of the policy deals with such as loss. 
So, I wont discuss this any further here.
However, I can also see that within the cancellation section, under the heading we will not 
cover the following is noted:
()
Any expenses (including Air Passenger Duty) that you can recover from elsewhere;
So, Im aware that it is possible for the policyholder, in this case Mr and Ms K, can recover 
their expenses from somewhere else, the insurance policy wont provide settlement for those 
expenses.
UKI has settled Mr and Mrs Ks expenses for the deposit paid, as it was agreed these 
werent recoverable elsewhere. So, this isnt the subject of any dispute, and so wont be 
discussed further here. But UKI has said the flights were recoverable from the airline  by way of an open ticket or a voucher. Ive considered whether UKI has acted fairly in noting 
that was the case. And I think it has.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K feel the flight costs werent recoverable elsewhere, because they 
dont consider the offer the airline made to be a valid form of reimbursement. But generally, 
unless the terms of the offer by the airline are unreasonably restrictive and/or the consumer 
has exceptional circumstances, Id consider the option to book travel at a future date with the 
airline to mean the policyholder has recovered their costs from elsewhere.
I thought about the terms of the offer provided by the airline. And I dont think these terms 
are restrictive. Ive seen the original online chat Mr and Mrs K had with the airline, which 
detailed the options available to them. During this chat the advisor from the airline said Mr 
and Mrs K were able to make one free reschedule of the flights, or take a travel voucher 
instead. And it noted that the open ticket was available for use until 31 December 2021.
As above, this offer has since been extended. Ive looked at the airline providers website, for 
the terms of the offer. And it says it is possible to reschedule or re-route the flight three 
times. It also notes that if the customer hasnt decided their new route and itinerary, they are 
able to extend their ticket validity until 31 December 2023. Alternatively, they can have a 
travel voucher  which can be exchanged for tickets for travel until 31 December 2023, or for 
other airline products. The voucher redemption can be made until 31 December 2022 at the 
airline sales offices. Given this provides extensive options for Mr and Mrs K, and there is still 
a good deal of time for the offer to be used, I dont think the terms of the offer made by the 
airline are so restrictive or unreasonable. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ks comments about direct flights not running from London. But 
their original travel plans didnt include a directs flights from London. On the departing 
journey, Mr and Mrs K were going to transfer flights once. And on the return journey, they 
were going to transfer flights twice. So, Im satisfied this was always Mr and Mrs Ks plan. 
So, Im satisfied this doesnt cause an unreasonable restriction  and Mr and Mrs K are 
being placed back in the position they were in before the holiday was cancelled. 
Ive also thought about whether there are any exceptional circumstances that would mean 
the open ticket or voucher was unreasonable. And I dont think there is. Mr and Mrs K have 
mentioned that it will be difficult to get all family members to go abroad together at the same 
time now. And whilst I appreciate it may be more challenging to do, Im not satisfied this 
stops Mr and Mrs K themselves making use of the airlines offer and recovering their costs 
that way. So, Im also satisfied this doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. 
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
UK Insurance Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman