DRN-4080195
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded him after he paid money for a mini 
digger that turned out to have been a scam. 
What happened
In June 2022, Mr S was looking to buy a mini digger. His friend found one advertised for sale 
on a social media platform and let Mr S know.
Mr S says he initially wasnt keen but received a message from the seller saying the friend 
had passed on his details. Mr S says he then spoke to the seller and decided to buy the 
machine. While he no longer has a copy of the advert, it showed pictures of the digger.
When Mr S asked to see the machine in person, he was told that wasnt possible. He was 
told the machine was out on-site but would be ready to send to him a couple of days. It was 
agreed hed pay £2,750 plus £150 for delivery.
Mr S says the price was lower than usual for this type of digger compared to what could be 
bought in his local area. But this was being advertised in the north of England where he 
thought the prices would usually be lower  typically £3,000 to £4,000. 
The seller sent Mr S an invoice and he checked the company online. He asked to pay by 
credit card but was told they wouldnt accept that. He was told theyd need payment by bank 
transfer. 
Mr S sent payment from his account with Santander by Faster Payments bank transfer to the 
account details hed been given by the seller. This was to a business account in the name of 
the company he thought he was dealing with.
But after hed paid the seller didnt answer his calls. He reported what had happened to 
Santander and the scam was uncovered. 
Santander tried to recover Mr Ss money from the receiving account. But unfortunately, by 
the time the scam had come to light, almost all the money had been removed and only £100 
remained to be recovered.
Santander is signed up to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from Authorised Push Payment scams 
(APP scams) such as this one. But Santander said it wouldnt refund Mr S because he 
hadnt been sufficiently cautious when deciding to go ahead and make the payments. In 
particular it noted that hed fallen victim to a very similar scam, involving a lorry advertised on 
the same social media site about six months earlier, and so knew about the risks of scams 
like this. 
Mr S didnt agree and referred a complaint about the outcome to this service for an 
independent review.
Our Investigator looked into everything that had happened. But she didnt think Santander 
had treated Mr S unfairly and didnt think it needed to refund the remaining loss. The 
Investigator thought the price advertised was arguably too good to be true. She 
acknowledged that Mr S had taken some steps before sending the payment but didnt think 
this justified overlooking signs that should have been a concern, particularly the very low 
price and knowing about the risk of buying a machine like this on social media without 
having seen it in person. So the Investigator didnt think Santander needed to refund Mr S.
Mr S didnt accept the Investigators assessment. His complaint has been referred to me to 
reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the Investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. In saying that I dont underestimate the impact this has had on 
Mr S. I can understand why he wants his losses refunded. 
But I have to recognise that the principal cause of his losses here was the scammer who 
deceived him. And I need to take into account that Santander has a primary obligation to 
carry out the payment instructions its customers give it. As a starting point, a customer is 
therefore assumed liable for a bank transfer they have told their bank to make. 
The additional protections that can be available when payments are made by credit or debit 
card simply dont apply to bank transfers. However, as Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code 
can provide some additional protection for the victims of APP scams. Im satisfied that the 
payment made by Mr S falls within the scope of the CRM Code. But despite offering 
additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions allowing a firm not to reimburse 
APP scam losses in some situations. 
Relevant here, this includes where the customer made a payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, selling 
genuine goods, or that the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay.
Santander reviewed Mr Ss claim against the CRM Code, and thought this exception applied. 
It didnt think it was required to reimburse him. 
Ive therefore considered whether it is fair for Santander to apply this exception to 
reimbursement. In other words, whether Mr S made the payment without having a 
reasonable basis for believing either that he was paying a legitimate seller for genuine 
goods. In determining this, I have carefully considered everything Mr S has submitted as well 
as the evidence submitted by the bank. 
Firstly, I think the price was low enough to have meant Mr S should have taken extra care to 
ensure it was genuine. He told our investigator that the price was very, very good. I dont 
doubt the price would have appeared enticing, considering how cheap it was in relative to 
the typical price. But a very low price can be one indicator that there is potentially something 
untoward about the seller or the proposed deal.Ive noted Mr Ss argument that this type of machine can be bought for nearer to this price in 
some parts of the country. But I think he appreciated this was still a very low price all 
considered. And I think this should have been a sign of higher than usual risk and prompted 
him to take extra care before deciding whether or not to go ahead.
Yet, besides the low price, there were other factors here that should have raised additional 
concerns about the legitimacy of the seller. Specifically, when Mr S asked about paying by 
credit card and about viewing the mini digger before making any payment the seller declined 
both requests.
I also cant exclude the relevance of Mr S having fallen victim to a very similar scam recently. 
In that earlier instance an item was advertised on the same social media platform, having 
again been found for Mr S by a friend. Similarly, the seller wasnt able to provide the vehicle 
for a couple of days, and similarly it turned out the sale was a scam. 
Again, I think even if there hadnt been other factors that caused concern (which there were) 
this meant Mr S should have been alert to the risk of the mini-digger advert also being a 
scam. 
Ive listened to the call Santander had with Mr S after that earlier scam. The bank explained 
to Mr S about the risk of purchase scams, what to look out for, and what to do to avoid 
scams in future. Im satisfied that Mr S understood what he was told on this call, and I think 
its reasonable to conclude he was aware that purchases through the social media platform 
had a risk of being a scam.
Santander also says it provided a scam warning at the time Mr S was paying for the mini 
digger. It says this included the following wording: Could this be a purchase scam? 
Criminals post fake adverts and ask for upfront payment. If you havent seen this item in 
person, this could be a scam.
Mr S doesnt recall seeing this warning at the time. However, Im persuaded by the 
information Santander has provided that it most likely was shown to him. Of course, I 
appreciate there are reasons Mr S might not have realised the relevance or importance of 
the message at the time. However, I think it reinforced the earlier experience hed had of the 
risk of purchase scams, and it matched the situation he was in at the time.
All in all, and taking everything into account, there were several factors pointing to the need 
for greater care before sending even a deposit payment, let alone the full value of the item. 
Yet the seller was insisting on full payment upfront and wouldnt accept card payments. And 
without the ability to see the item before paying the full price I think Mr S was putting a lot of 
trust in a stranger. Buying a high value item on social media, sight unseen, and at a very low 
price was always going to be a big risk. Mr S should have considered walking away from the 
deal. 
Unfortunately, I think making a large payment in that situation was a significant risk to have 
taken, and I think Mr S reasonably would have known that. In terms of the CRM Code, 
where a customer made a payment without having a reasonable basis for believing they 
were paying for legitimate goods from a legitimate seller, or that they were paying the person 
they believed they were, then their bank does not need to refund them for their loss even 
when this was due to a scam. I think Santander is entitled to rely on that here  I think it has 
done enough to establish that Mr S didnt have a reasonable basis for believing this was 
legitimate.
Based on what Santander could reasonably have known at the time, this payment wasnt 
one which would have particularly stood out as being at risk of being connected to a fraud or scam. With this in mind, I dont think there was a requirement to give an Effective Warning 
under the terms of the CRM Code. And I dont think Santander needed to take specific steps 
at the time, such as intervening directly before it would release Mr Ss payment. 
When Santander was made aware of what had happened it acted appropriately and tried to 
recover the funds, although only a small part remained  the majority having been moved on 
very quickly after the second payment had been made.
In short, I dont find Santander is to blame for Mr Ss losses. I dont find it is liable to refund 
him under the terms of the CRM Code either.
I appreciate that hes lost a significant amount because of what happened. But I can only 
look at what Santander was required to do and is committed to do now under the CRM 
Code. I have no power to consider the actions of the criminal scammers who were ultimately 
responsible for Mr Ss loss. And I dont find Santander is required to refund him under the 
CRM Code, nor that the bank was at fault in making the payment Mr S had instructed it to 
make or for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint about Santander UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman