DRN-2778691
The complaint
Mr H complains Temple Finance Limited (trading as PerfectHome) lent to him irresponsibly.
  
What happened
Mr H entered into four finance agreements with PerfectHome to acquire electronic goods. In 
February 2017, Mr H entered into an agreement to acquire a smart phone with a cash price 
of £796. The term of the agreement would last 104 weeks, with a total weekly repayment of 
£17.16, including an extra payment towards insurances.
In March 2017, April 2017 and May 2017, Mr H entered into three separate agreements to 
acquire identical high-end laptop computers, each with a cash price of £1,120. The term of 
each agreement would last 104 weeks (from their respective start date), have a total weekly 
repayment of £25.45, inclusive of the extra payments towards insurances. By the fourth 
agreement, Mr H would repay over £93 a week for the goods and insurances.
Mr H complains PerfectHome didnt complete proper checks and had it done so, it wouldve 
seen that he couldnt afford these finance agreements. Mr H says his credit file wouldve 
shown several defaulted accounts, accounts in arrears and active county court judgements. 
Mr H adds that his financial situation got worse because of PerfectHome providing these 
finance agreements.
Mr H also complains PerfectHome insisted he took out its insurances, otherwise his 
application wouldve been rejected.
PerfectHome disagreed these agreements were unaffordable or that it had insisted Mr H 
take its insurance products. PerfectHome say they carried out a number of checks before 
approving the finance agreements. These included assessing Mr Hs income and 
expenditure and verifying the information with external agencies. PerfectHome add that for 
the first agreement, it also validated the information Mr H declared against the transactions 
showing on his bank statements.
PerfectHome explained that a condition of taking out these finance agreements was that 
Mr H needed insurance to cover theft and accidental damage. It added Mr H had the option 
to take out his own insurance or through PerfectHome and he should reasonably have 
understood its insurance was optional.
As a gesture of goodwill, PerfectHome offered, should Mr H now return all the goods in a 
reasonable condition, it would write off the balances he owed. Our investigator checked 
whether the offer was still open for Mr H to accept. But when she put it to him, Mr H 
explained his financial predicament had forced him to sell on the items. So, the investigator 
went to look into the merits of the complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Hs complaint should be upheld and recommended what 
PerfectHome should do to put matters right. She recommended PerfectHome should:
add up the total cash price of the items that Mr H acquired under these agreements, 
excluding the insurances that he purchased alongside the item;
then add up the repayments that Mr H made towards these agreements, including any 
payments towards the insurances;
add 8% simple interest to the payments toward the insurances;
deduct the total repayments and simple interest from the balance of the total cash price 
of the items.
If this resulted in Mr H having paid more than the cash price of the items that he acquired, 
then any overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
But if Mr H still owed any of the original cash price of the items, then PerfectHome should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with him.
PerfectHome should also remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file 
regarding these agreements.
PerfectHome accepted the recommendation and agreed to settle the complaint on this basis. 
It calculated that Mr H still owed £3,291 for the items.
But Mr H disagreed with the way the complaint should be settled  he thought PerfectHome 
should write-off his debt. So, this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint. Having done so, I 
agree with the outcome put forward by the investigator and for much the same reasons.
Under the relevant regulatory framework, PerfectHome was obliged to lend responsibly. This 
meant that it had to reasonably assess whether Mr H could afford to meet the repayments in 
a sustainable way over the relevant term. And so, the assessment of Mr Hs circumstances 
had to be borrower-focused  which means that, while PerfectHome wasnt prevented from 
assessing its own risk as a lender, it also had to assess the risk to Mr H. 
The circumstances in which its reasonable to conclude that a less detailed affordability 
assessment is reasonable and proportionate are more likely to be limited to applicants 
whose financial situation was stable and whose borrowing was relatively insignificant given 
their overall financial circumstances. But given the size of the lending and the goods 
acquired between February and May 2017 alongside Mr Hs wider financial circumstances 
like his income and outgoings for example, I dont think the lending was insignificant to Mr H. 
PerfectHome, before agreeing to lend Mr H his first item, verified aspects of his income and 
expenditure by asking him for bank statements. But on their own, his bank statements would 
not show any payments falling due and going unpaid  in the way that a full review of Mr Hs 
credit file alongside his statements could. And there were areas of concern that ought to 
have prompted PerfectHome to take a closer look, for example, recurring £1 payments 
towards a debt collector showed on Mr Hs bank statements. I appreciate PerfectHome says it did search Mr Hs credit file but hasnt retained a copy. It 
also said it wouldnt have lent if negative information such as insolvency showed on the 
credit file. Of course, I cant now see for certain whether PerfectHomes searches went 
beyond looking for insolvency markers. But Im not convinced they did given its product was 
aimed at a market segment with reduced access to mainstream credit providers because of 
problems with repaying credit. So, without a more thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that PerfectHome carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks.
Mr H has supplied a copy of his credit file showing information available to PerfectHome 
between February and May 2017. It shows six unsettled defaults, with one as recent as 
December 2016, another with a utility supplier from 2015, and that he had fallen into arrears 
on a bank loan and overdraft facility. It also shows that he had between one and sixmonths 
arrears on no fewer than six separate mobile communications accounts. Indeed, given his 
modest income and financial circumstances, it begs the question why Mr H approached 
PerfectHome for another smart mobile phone. But given both parties now agree it was 
irresponsible for PerfectHome to lend, Ive not considered this question further, suffice to say 
Mr H was clearly already in financial difficulties.
With this being the case, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have 
demonstrated that Mr H would not have been able to make his repayments sustainably. And 
if PerfectHome knew, as I think it ought to have, that Mr H wasnt able to repay the 
borrowing sustainably, Im also not persuaded that it should have lent to him. 
 
Putting things right
Although both parties now agree it was irresponsible for PerfectHome to lend, they disagree 
on how to right the situation. On the one hand, PerfectHome accepts our investigators 
recommendation that it removes all fees, insurances and charges so that Mr H only repays 
cash price of the items he acquired. On the other hand, Mr H believes as PerfectHome lent 
irresponsibly, the lender should write-off his debt to it.
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes the business made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr H in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
entered the finance agreements in question. I note PerfectHomes terms allow Mr H to hand 
back the items in a reasonable condition in lieu of all amounts owing to the lender. However, 
this isnt straightforward in this case. Mr H was given the items and he sold them. 
In these circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr 
H back in the position he would be in if he hadnt been loaned the items in the first place.
Instead, I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint. I think the overarching principle here is that neither party 
should profit from the irresponsible lending. So PerfectHome cant benefit by adding interest 
to the debt, or sundry insurance sales. And in the same way, Mr H cant benefit from use of 
the items, the sums he received on their disposal and expect the debt wiped   hes had the 
money for the items he borrowed and its fair that he should pay it back.
The approach to complaints about unaffordable lending set out on our website includes how 
to put things right. It explains that if a borrower has a complaint upheld and theres still an 
outstanding balance on the credit, well usually tell the lender to remove all the interest and 
charges applied from the start. This effectively what PerfectHome has agreed to do and it leaves Mr H owing £3,291 towards the cash price of the items. Im satisfied this is a fair way 
to settle this complaint. PerfectHome should set up an affordable payment plan for Mr H.
I also think it is fair for PerfectHome to remove adverse information recorded about the 
finance agreements in question. So, once Mr H has repaid the outstanding balance, 
PerfectHome should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a 
result of the unaffordable lending.
In summary, PerfectHome should set up an affordable payment plan for Mr H and once the 
debt is settled, it should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Temple Finance Limited 
(trading as PerfectHome) to put things right for Mr H in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman