DRN-3065666
The complaint
Mr H complains that BCR Legal Group Limited (BCR) didnt provide the services promised, 
or refund the fees paid, for a buildings warranty he bought from its appointed representative.
What happened
Mr H was a developer planning a self-build. He had purchased land in order to build two 
properties. In 2015, he bought a latent defects buildings warranty for the build through BCRs 
appointed representative that I will refer to as C. C arranged the warranty with an insurer that 
I will refer to as A. C charged Mr H around £2,600. 
In May 2018, A ceased trading and was declared bankrupt. And in August that year all 
warranties it had issued were terminated. This was before the completion of the construction 
of Mr Hs properties. Due to this, C was unable to issue a post-completion insurance 
certificate. 
Mr H contacted the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), who had agreed to 
refund As policyholders premiums. However this was only £500 as that was the amount 
paid to A for the premiums. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this as he had paid C significantly more. He said when he bought the 
warranty there had been no breakdown of the cost, so he assumed the full amount had been 
paid to A. He made a complaint to C as he thought he had been mis-sold the policy. He said 
C had taken the money but it hadnt provided the promised services, such as carrying out 
surveys or issuing the post-completion certificate. He thought C should refund the remaining 
amount paid and pay for the required replacement warranty for his properties. 
C said only a proportion of the cost was for the premiums and the rest was for its services, 
such as arranging inspections, surveys and a membership fee. And as this was all part of 
the cost of arranging the warranty, it wouldnt be refunding the additional amount. Mr H still 
thought C should refund what he paid, as he hadnt received the services or a post-
completion insurance certificate. He bought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said the reason Mr H hadnt received the post-completion certificate was because A 
collapsed before the build completed, and this wasnt the fault of C. Further, she didnt think 
C had done anything wrong by not completing the final survey as this would have had no 
value after A collapsed. And she didnt think it was Cs responsibility to provide a new 
warranty. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BCR says our service doesnt have the authority to look into this complaint, and others like it. 
It says C was working as an agent of A and therefore BCR wasnt responsible for Cs 
actions. Further it says surveys, inspections, risk assessments and the membership of Cs 
construction register werent regulated activities under The Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO), and our service cant consider them 
under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Ive considered this and I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction. I find: 
(a) the activities are either part and parcel of the carrying on by C of the regulated activities 
of: (i) dealing in investments as agent (Article 21 of the RAO) 
or (ii) arranging deals in investments (Article 25 of the RAO); or 
(b) they constitute the carrying on of ancillary activities in relation to these regulated 
activities; and 
(c) the activities were ones for which BCR had accepted responsibility under the appointed 
representative agreement, such that it is responsible for Cs acts/omissions in relation to 
them. 
So I find I can consider this complaint about C carrying out these activities against BCR 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
Mr Hs complaint 
When considering a complaint, its my role to decide whether the business thats being 
complained about has got something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should 
do to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt. 
Here, Mr H isnt happy that he hasnt received a full refund of the amount he paid to C, he 
hasnt received all the services he paid for and he has had to pay for a replacement 
warranty. He thinks C should reimburse him and pay for a new warranty. I need to decide if 
C has got something wrong here, in order to determine if it has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Its important to note that as C were acting as an appointed representative of BCR, BCR is 
responsible for Cs actions. So if I find C got something wrong, it is BCR that would be 
responsible for putting things right. 
I understand Mr H is frustrated as he paid C around £2,600, but only received a refund of 
£500. The FSCS are only responsible for refunding the premiums for As policies. And as 
only £500 of the cost charged by C was for the premiums, thats why this is all Mr H 
received. 
The rest of the cost was for Cs services and went directly to C. These included the 
necessary site inspections and surveys. These were an essential part of arranging a 
warranty with A and were required in order for the warranty to be activated. And if A hadnt 
collapsed, C would most likely have carried out the surveys necessary and issued a post- 
Page 3 of 3 completion certificate. The only reason Mr H didnt get the services he paid for is 
because A collapsed.
The collapse of A caused its policyholders, including Mr H, a great deal of inconvenience 
and financial loss. However C wasnt responsible for A collapsing. Mr H paid for C to arrange 
a warranty, and this is what it did. So I cant say C did anything wrong here and therefore it wouldnt be fair to ask C to refund the fees paid. 
Ive also considered what Mr H has said about the surveys he paid for not being completed. I 
can understand why Mr H thinks that because the surveys werent carried out, he should get 
his money back. But even if C had carried these out, he would be in no better position than 
he is in today. So I dont agree he has lost out by C not carrying out the surveys. 
Each insurer requires its own surveys and inspections, with different criteria to ensure the 
build meets its own risk profile. This means any surveys completed by C at the time of the 
collapse wouldnt be transferrable to a different warranty, as they would have been 
specifically for the policy with A. So if C had carried out all the surveys Mr H paid for, they 
would be of no value when A collapsed. So while I can see Mr H didnt get the services he 
was expecting and paid for, he would be in no better position if he had. So I dont agree that 
this means C should refund the money paid. 
For these reasons I dont think C has done anything wrong, so I cant say it has acted 
unfairly by not refunding the fees paid. I also understand Mr H will have to pay for a new 
warranty for his properties and this means paying an additional amount on top of what he 
has already paid. However neither C or BCR are obliged to provide a replacement policy in 
the event of an insurer collapsing. So it hasnt acted unfairly by not offering a replacement 
warranty. 
So while I appreciate Mr H has been through a distressing period and has suffered 
financially due to As collapse, and I dont doubt this has had a significant impact on him, I 
cant say that C, and therefore BCR, are responsible for these losses. But instead they are 
an unfortunate consequence of As collapse. For these reasons I wont ask BCR to do 
anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman