DRN-4094548
The complaint
Miss E has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted irresponsibly by allowing 
her to increase her overdraft limit and feels this led to her getting into financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss E held an account with an overdraft facility with HSBC. Miss Es limit was increased to 
£700 in November 2021 and then decreased to £200 the following month. Following an 
online application by Miss E her limit was once again increased to £850 on 2 February 2022. 
Miss E contacted HSBC on 16 February 2022 and informed it she had left her job in 
December and attempted to increase her overdraft to £900 as the benefits she was receiving 
wasnt enough. HSBC advised Miss E that its financial solution team could assist or to go 
online to see what other options were available.
On 20 June 2022 Miss E was offered a repayment plan and overdraft interest and charges 
were supressed from this point onwards. 
Miss E complained to HSBC that it lent irresponsibly and that the fees applied to her account 
caused financial difficulty and requested that overdraft charges and interest were refunded 
from May 2021. Miss E also complained about the service she received when visiting a 
branch. HSBC confirmed that Miss E was charged £91.48 from May 2021 and offered her 
£200 compensation for the service Miss E had received and inconvenience the matter 
caused. 
Miss E was dis-satisfied with this and referred her complaint to our service.
Miss Es complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that there 
wasnt anything in Miss Es account history which suggested she wouldnt be able to repay 
her overdraft within a reasonable period of time and didnt agree that HSBC acted 
irresponsibly by increasing Miss Es overdraft limit. 
Miss E disagreed, so her complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 March 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
why I was proposing to uphold Miss Es complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
and HSBC or Miss E have added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
HSBC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is it 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss E would be 
able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. 
Miss Es overdraft is what we refer to as an open-ended credit facility. This means the 
checks HSBC carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Miss 
E would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
Before raising her complaint HSBC approved an overdraft limit increase from when it was 
decreased in December 2021 to £200, to £850 in February 2022. The application for the last 
limit increase was made online. HSBC says all applications were credit scored taking into 
account information Miss E provided about her income and how she had managed her 
account with it, as well as information held by other lenders provided through credit 
reference agencies. And based on this information HSBC was satisfied her score was high 
enough to provide her with the overdraft facility she requested.
I accept that Miss Es financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information she disclosed to HSBC at the time  indeed the 
application shows that she declared herself as still employed. And it is possible that further 
checks might have told HSBC this. But HSBC was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit 
check it carried out. 
And having viewed Miss Es statements leading up to the increase I can see that although 
Miss E did use her overdraft she was regularly able to bring it right down with incoming 
credits and often saw and a credit balance. I can also see that Miss E was able to make a 
number of non-committed discretionary transactions on retail and takeout food. So I think 
HSBCs checks went far enough and I dont think HSBC acted unfairly in increasing her limit. 
But by March 2022 Miss Es circumstances had changed and I think her account was 
starting to show signs of financial difficulty. Miss E had informed HSBC on 16 February 2022 
that shed lost her job, her statements show she was at the top of her overdraft limit and 
direct debits were being returned. I think it was evident Miss E was in no position to 
sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
So having carefully considered everything provided I currently intend to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from March 2022. 
By this point, HSBC had been informed of Miss Es change in circumstances and her 
statements were showing signs of financial difficulty. 
I accept that HSBC sign posted Miss E to its financial solution team and that Miss E was 
eventually put on a repayment plan in late June 2022. But I think this help came too late  
months after Miss E had got in touch regarding her circumstances and her bank statements 
were showing signs of financial difficulty.
So I think that this should have prompted HSBC to have realised that Miss E wasnt using 
her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As 
HSBC didnt react to Miss Es overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss E ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I currently think that HSBC didnt treat Miss E fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And 
this means that it should put things right.
I do note that HSBC has already offered Miss Es £200 to settle her complaint and this could 
well be more than the total of any refund of interest and charges applied to her account. But 
despite this being explained to Miss E she still didnt want to accept this offer. So the redress 
outlined below is in-line with what Id usually recommend in Miss Es circumstances.
As neither party has provided any further new evidence or arguments for consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Es complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
HSBC should re-work Miss Es current overdraft balance so all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from March 2022 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Miss E to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Es credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in March 2022.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss E along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Es credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Miss Es complaint and direct that HSBC UK Bank 
Plc pay the fair compensation as listed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman