DRN-2372798
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly limited the amount it will pay him 
under his home contents insurance.
What happened
In March 2020, thieves broken into Mr Ms garage and stole three mountain bikes. Mr M 
made a claim to Ageas under his contents insurance.
After some disagreement  which has already been the subject of a complaint to this service 
 Ageas accepted Mr Ms claim. After this service got involved, it offered Mr M £2,000 to 
settle the claim.
Although Mr Ms bikes were independently valued at just over £4,000, Ageas referred to the 
terms of his policy which limited the amount it would pay for contents stolen from Mr Ms 
garage to £2,000. It was satisfied that the limit should be applied in this case.
Mr M was unhappy with Ageass offer. In summary, he believes its unfair for Ageas to apply 
the £2,000 limit. In Mr Ms opinion, his policy covered the bikes up to the total sum insured 
figure.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. He 
was satisfied that Mr Ms policy had a limit of £2,000 for any contents stolen from his garage, 
and didnt think Ageas had acted unreasonably by limiting its pay-out to £2,000. 
Mr M disagreed with this, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas accepted Mr Ms claim so that isnt something I need to consider here. The only 
question for me is whether it acted fairly by limiting the amount it would pay out.
Ageas pointed to Section C6, paragraph 6 of the policy wording which says: Your insurer 
will not pay for any amount more than £2,000 where theft takes place from a garage or an 
outbuilding.
Ive read Mr Ms detailed submissions and can summarise his position as follows:
Section A of his home insurance policy booklet contains a list of definitions. The 
definition of contents includes pedal cycles in the home. The definition of home 
includes Mr Ms garage.
Section C8, paragraph 3 says: The maximum amount your insurer will pay in respect 
of any one claim is: for contents, the contents sum insured figure shown on your 
Schedule of Insurance.
The contents sum insured on Mr Ms Schedule of Insurance is £15,000.
As pedal cycles are contents stored in the home, the limit for his claim should be the 
total sum insured for his contents  that is, £15,000  and not £2,000.
I can see the point Mr M is making, but Im afraid I disagree.
Ill start by making a general point that Mr M has accepted in his discussions with our 
investigator. Theres a different risk to an insurer for items stored in the home than for those 
stored in a garage. Generally, anything stored in a garage is more vulnerable to theft. So it 
makes sense that most insurers, including Ageas, have a different risk appetite for insuring 
items stored in the house than for those stored in a garage. Its reasonable to consider Mr 
Ms insurance in this light.
Second, Im satisfied that Section C6, paragraph 6 of Mr Ms policy is clear: Your insurer will 
not pay for any amount more than £2,000 where theft takes place from a garage or an 
outbuilding. I know Mr M says Section C8 contradicts this but theres nothing in that section 
that overrides this limit on items stolen from his garage or gives situations where that limit 
might not apply.
Third, Mr Ms Schedule of Insurance summarises his buildings and contents cover. The 
contents sum insured under the policy is £15,000. But there are several other limits listed, 
including for Specified Pedal Cycles, where a mountain bike is listed as insured for £1,000. 
There would be no reason for this separate limit if Mr Ms bikes were covered up to the 
maximum sum insured.
Finally, I can see that the policy was taken out only a few days before the theft. Im aware 
that Mr M has told us that he wanted all three bikes covered, however that isnt what his 
policy says. If he wants to complain that the policy was mis-sold, he needs to raise a 
separate complaint against the insurance broker or intermediary who sold him the policy.
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that the limit for a claim for the contents stolen 
from Mr Ms garage was £2,000. This includes Mr Ms bikes. Im satisfied that Ageas has 
reasonably applied the limit in this case. Its offer of £2,000 is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman