DRN-4509187
The complaint
Mr A complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled and settled a claim 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy with esure covering his car.
In April 2023 Mr As car was heavily damaged in a collision with a third party who turned 
right across his path. He made a claim.
esure assessed his car as being beyond economic repair. It said it would declare the car a 
write-off and assessed its market value as about £18,880.
Mr A didnt agree with this valuation and he complained. Hed recently bought his car and 
thought it should be worth more. He also complained about esures handling of his claim. 
esure initially recorded the claim as Mr A being partially liable and deducted his excess 
from the amount it paid.
esure upheld part of his complaint and offered him £125 compensation for its service.
Mr A remained unhappy with esures response and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and upheld it in part. esure didnt provide its claims 
file, so she issued a view on the information she had. She said she didnt think esure had 
offered Mr A enough for his car and thought the value should be £19,809 plus interest at 8% 
simple. But she thought esures compensation for its service was fair and itd explained why 
it had taken the approach it had on Mr As potential liability for the collision.
Mr A accepted the view but esure didnt. Because it didnt agree, this complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the file of information about Mr As collision and subsequent claim carefully. From 
the information I have, it seems to me that Mr As claim is now settled and esure has said he 
retains his No Claims Discount. Ill explain what I think this means below, but I can also see 
Mr A has also been contacted by esure since his claim was settled, and hes struggling to 
understand why.
In his approach to this service, Mr A raised issues with the valuation of his car and esures 
service. Im able to make a decision on the matters that arose up to when esure issued its 
final response to him. Mr A is free to complain to esure about the ongoing problems hes 
having, and to this service in due course if he remains unhappy.
I can see from Mr As evidence that he wants to bring this matter to an end after over seven 
months for what he thinks should have been a relatively simple claim when a third party 
turned right across his path. Im upholding Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
I can see Mr A accepted the valuation proposed by our investigator. The approach of this 
service is to use trade guides to arrive at a valuation for the vehicle. Ive looked into these 
trade guides and I can see the following values:
Trade Guide A £19,515
Trade Guide B £19,160
Trade Guide C £20,562
Trade Guide D £20,000
The average of these four trade guides is £19,809. Esure didnt provide evidence about why 
it didnt agree with the valuation. As Mr A has accepted it, I think esure need to settle his 
claim at this market value, subject to the policy terms and conditions. 
Because of the time thats passed since the collision and claim, I also think esure need to 
add interest at 8% simple from two weeks after the claim was reported, to the date payment 
is made. From the file, I can see interim payment(s) have been made to Mr A, so for clarity 
this interest should apply to the increased amount esure needs to pay as a result of my 
decision.
Having looked at the details of Mr As collision and claim I can see he suffered poor service 
from esure from the beginning. Its initial treatment of his claim included him being held 
partially liable for the incident and I can see Mr A strongly objected to this assessment. I can 
also see this has been explained to him and I hope hes accepted why insurers often have to 
take this approach. 
Its important I say that insurers do this until they are able to recover their costs. So for Mr A 
this meant esure deducted his excess and held him at some degree of fault until the claim 
was settled by the third party. I can also see that esure has now told Mr A hes retained his 
No Claims Discount entitlement. What this usually means is hes not been found to be at any 
fault for the collision, and he needs to check with esure about this. 
In later correspondence with this service Mr A also mentions he wants to make sure theres 
no impact on his future premiums as a result of the collision. Any type of claim, whether fault 
or non-fault, will likely form part of an insurers assessment about Mr A and so it will probably 
affect his premium in future until it drops off his records.
Ive looked at esures offer of compensation to Mr A of £125 and I can see hes accepted 
this. So I think this is the amount it reasonably needs to pay for his distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr A £125 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. If this has already 
been paid then it can be discounted.
Settle Mr As claim for a market value of £19,809 subject to the remaining terms and conditions of his policy. Interest at 8% simple should be added to the increased 
amount esure needs to pay over whats already been paid.
esure Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman