DRN-3892906
The complaint
Miss I has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt take the necessary steps for 
responsible lending when providing her with an overdraft. 
What happened
Miss I complained to Lloyds about its irresponsible overdraft lending. Lloyds upheld Miss Is 
complaint and offered to:
Refund all charges and interest from 27 August 2017 when the overdraft was 
approved amounting to £807.94; 
Pay £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience; 
Lloyds confirmed it would buy back Miss Is account from the third party debt 
collectors and arrange a payment plan with her; and
Back date the default on her account to 27 August 2017.
One of our adjudicators looked at this and thought that what Lloyds had offered is in-line with 
what wed recommend and didnt think it needed to do anything more. Miss I disagreed she 
would like more compensation and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss I is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business provides a consumer with a credit facility which it should have realised 
was unaffordable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in 
now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally 
expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the point the 
lender ought to have realised it was unaffordable. And if those interest and charges were 
paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Miss I has likely been left with an outstanding balance on her overdraft, once all 
adjustments have been made, and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
caused by her overdraft. So while Miss I has been left with a balance and she might be 
unhappy with this, Lloyds has offered to do what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do something 
different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair 
and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss I says Lloyds should do something different here. She says she failed to keep up with 
the charges and her debts spiralled and doesnt think the compensation is enough 
considering the distress caused. 
Ive thought about what Miss I has said. And what shes said is a reason for upholding her 
complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right 
in cases such as hers. All the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added have 
been removed from what she now needs to pay. So what Miss I is left with to repay are the 
funds which she used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and 
charges have left her with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Miss I spent the credit, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Miss I to repay these funds. And I dont think that Miss Is 
unhappiness at having a balance to repay on her overdraft, even after her complaint has 
been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already offered to do to put 
things right for Miss I is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
persuaded further compensation is warranted, so Im requiring Lloyds to do anything more. 
As this is the case, its up to Miss I to decide whether she wishes to accept Lloyds offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss I is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman