DRN-4247956
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the way in which Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity
Company handled a claim made on her travel insurance policy and the assistance provided
by its medical assistance team whilst she was abroad.
Any references to Chaucer include its claim handlers and medical assistance team. And
although Mrs K is being represented in this complaint, Ive referred to her throughout as she
is the solely named policyholder on the schedule of insurance.
What happened
Early in 2022, Mrs K took out a single-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Chaucer
(the policy). Whilst away, Mrs K required medical treatment and she was hospitalised.
A family member notified Chaucer for medical assistance at the beginning of March 2022.
Cover was initially declined because the dates of travel didnt match the period of cover on
the schedule of insurance.
After Mrs K contested this, Chaucer did agree to provide medical assistance and cover
certain costs  including those relating to medical treatment and ensuring that she was
safely repatriated to the UK from where shed been visiting.
Mrs K is very concerned about the way in which Chaucer handled her claim and the service
provided by its medical assistance team. She raised a number of complaints with Chaucer
which it addressed in its final response letter dated May 2022, not upholding her complaint.
Unhappy with Chaucers response, Mrs K complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. She
disagreed so her complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh and
decide.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2023 setting out more detailed reasons why I wasnt 
intending to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. An extract of which is set out below:
..
At the outset I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs K
has, and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made. No
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues
here. The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this as its an
informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because
Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to
be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle insurance claims
promptly and fairly - and a claim shouldnt be unreasonably rejected.
Mrs K was the sole beneficiary of the policy. So, although there have been many
submissions about the distress, inconvenience and number of hours spent by family
members contacting Chaucer for updates - and liaising with it to progress the claim and
ensure it was providing adequate assistance to Mrs K - they arent eligible complainants in
respect of the complaint Ive been asked to decide. They didnt enter into a contract of
insurance with Chaucer. So, I dont have any power to direct it to pay Mrs Ks family
members any compensation for distress and inconvenience theyve personally experienced
as a result of anything Chaucer may have done wrong. Nor for the amount of time, theyve
spent liaising with Chaucer on behalf of Mrs K whilst she was abroad and after she was
repatriated to the UK.
Mrs K also says her complaint is also being brought on behalf of others like her, whose
claims have been declined when they needed insurance cover, and for whatever reason
were not as tenacious as her family have been to secure cover. However, Ive focussed on
the individual circumstances of Mrs Ks case and whether Chaucer has acted fairly and
reasonably  although there is some crossover.
Im also aware that Mrs K has referred a complaint to our service about the policy being mis-
sold to her. As Chaucer didnt sell the policy to Mrs K, that complaint has been set up and
investigated against another financial business. And does not form part of the complaint Ive
considered against Chaucer.
For the reasons set out below, Im currently satisfied Chaucer has acted fairly and
reasonably overall in the way in which it handled Mrs Ks claim and the assistance provided
under the policy.
Before providing medical assistance and agreeing to meet any claim  including 
medical and repatriation costs - I think its reasonable for Chaucer, as the underwriter
of the policy, to seek to verify cover. Thats in line with standard industry practice.
After promptly requesting information from Mrs Ks family, Chaucer identified that the 
dates of travel to and from the country she was visiting didnt correspond to the 
period of insurance as reflected on the schedule of insurance. Chaucer didnt sell the 
policy to Mrs K. So, whilst I can understand from Mrs Ks perspective why she 
wouldve been very concerned about this, I think its reasonable for Chaucer to take 
the dates of cover at face value when initially concluding that Mrs K wasnt covered 
under the policy as her intended travel dates exceeded the policy dates.
When declining cover, Chaucer provided additional reasons for declining the claim. It 
looks like these were based on different policy terms (with different branding) and 
didnt relate to the terms of the policy Mrs K had the benefit of. For example, a term 
that the insurance policy doesnt cover travel for more than 45 days (if aged 76 or 
over on the date the insurance was bought). Thats not included in the terms Mrs K 
had the benefit of. However, ultimately, I dont think this made a difference to the 
decision to decline claim as Im satisfied it fairly and reasonably informed Mrs Ks 
family at the time that because the dates of travel exceeded the dates on the 
schedule of insurance, there was no cover in place.
Upon being notified that there may have been an error with the dates on the
schedule of insurance, Im satisfied that Chaucer promptly took steps to considerwhether it wouldve provided cover for Mrs K for the dates of her trip at the time it
was sold and, if so, how much this wouldve cost. And I think that was fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After concluding that cover wouldve still been provided at an additional premium, I
dont think Chaucer acted unfairly by initially informing Mrs Ks family that to validate
cover, it would need to obtain a detailed medical report from the treating doctor and
request a report from her GP. This is also standard industry practice. And given the
reasons why Mrs K was admitted to hospital and the pre-existing medical conditions
declared at the time of taking out the policy and reflected on the schedule of
insurance, I dont think this was unfair.
From Chaucers contact notes, Im satisfied Chaucer promptly requested the medical 
information. I know the GP report wasnt received for several days but I dont think I 
can reasonably hold Chaucer responsible for this. The request was made shortly 
before the weekend and the contact notes reflect that its representatives were 
chasing the GP for a response and updating a family member of its efforts.
After both reports were received, Im satisfied that they were promptly reviewed
within a few hours. And although Chaucers internal advice was to obtain further
medical history from Mrs Ks GP to see whether shed correctly declared all of her
pre-existing medical history  which isnt unusual  the following day, it agreed to
accept the claim without carrying out a review of Mrs Ks GP records. It also agreed
to waive the additional premium which wouldve been charged had Chaucer been
notified of the extended dates of travel before the policy was incepted. Mrs Ks family
was told at the time that the figure was in excess of £300 but its internal notes reflect
that the this was incorrect, and the additional sum ought to have been around
£1,100. Either way, the additional premium was significant and by waiving it, Im
satisfied Chaucer has done more that it reasonably ought to have.
I dont think Chaucer has acted unreasonably by not refunding the actual premium
Mrs K originally paid for the policy. Notwithstanding any issues of whether she was
sold a policy unsuitable for her needs, Chaucer did ultimately decide to provide
assistance and cover claims made under the policy  which I understand cost more
than £30,000. As Mrs K derived a benefit from the policy, I dont think it would be fair
and reasonable for Chaucer to refund the original premium she paid.
Im satisfied that Chaucer has confirmed in writing the amount it has paid Mrs K to
cover her claimed out of pocket expenses whilst away  including medical costs she
initially paid. It may not be in the format or prescriptive way Mrs K has asked for, but I
dont think the confirmation Chaucer has provided is unreasonable. Nor do I think
Chaucer has acted unreasonably by not providing an invoice in the prescribed
manner Mrs K has asked for. The schedule of insurance sets out the premium paid
for the policy and this reflects that insurance premium tax (IPT) wasnt charged.
When a family member queried this, its reflected that she was told on or around 24
March 2022 why it considered Mrs K to be exempt from paying IPT. I think the
explanation given was reasonable and, from what Ive seen, in line with UK
legislation. And although the policy schedule says the total sum is inclusive of any
IPT, it sets out just before this that the total charged for IPT was £0. So, I think thats
clear enough.
I know Mrs K has requested the full names and qualifications of the nurses who
formed part of Chaucers medical team and to whom her family members spoke to
whilst she was away when discussing plans to repatriate Mrs K. Its accepted thatMrs Ks family members were aware of their first names. I can also see from the
contact notes that Chaucers representative confirmed that they were medically
trained. Ive seen no convincing reason to doubt what Chaucer says about that and I
dont think Chaucer acted unfairly by not disclosing the surnames of the nurses to
Mrs Ks family in the circumstances of this case.
Further, and in the alternative, I dont think Mrs K was subjected to any detriment by
not knowing the surnames of the nurses. The treating doctor advised that Mrs Ks
projected discharge date was 26 March 2022 and shed be fit to fly to the UK
provided she had wheelchair assistance at the airport. Chaucers medical team didnt
disagree but did advise that one family member travel to the country where Mrs K
was visiting to accompany her back. This is more than the treating doctor advised
and I dont think this was detrimental to Mrs K.
Having considered Chaucers contact notes, Im satisfied that before the decision
was taken by Chaucer to cover the cost of one family member travelling to the
country Mrs K was visiting to accompany her home, Mrs Ks family was made aware
that it wouldnt be covering the cost of two family members travelling to be with her. I
think Mrs Ks family understood that to be the case otherwise I dont think they
wouldve repeatedly enquired whether Chaucer were agreeing to pay the costs
before booking the flights. And, besides, its clear to me from the contact notes, that
before the flights were booked, Mrs Ks family were aware that only one family
member would be covered under the policy. I dont think Chaucer unreasonably
relied on the terms and conditions of the policy when making that decision. And Ive
seen nothing which persuades me from the time the decision was taken that it was
medically necessary for Mrs K to accompanied back by two family members.
Subsequently, Chaucers medical team advised that a medical professional should
travel to the country where Mrs K was staying so she had a medical escort on the
way home. And Chaucer agreed to cover this cost. The treating doctor reported on 5
April 2022 that Mrs K was stable and doing well and remained fit to fly to the UK. And
theres nothing reflected in the contact notes that Mrs Ks family were concerned
about being able to fly home. Understandably, the communications from her family at
the time reflect that they were keen for Mrs K to travel to the UK. I appreciate that this
is ultimately a medical decision to be made and Im not a medical expert, but Ive
seen nothing to persuade me that Chaucer was acting against the advice of the
treating doctor by repatriating Mrs K to the UK on the dates that she ought to. Nor do
I think the advice from the nurses was inappropriate and not in the best interests of
Mrs K. I also note that the doctor who met with Mrs K before escorting her on the
flight to the UK before repatriation didnt raise any concerns about her fitness to fly.
Chaucer hasnt been able to provide two call recordings to Mrs K which it accepts did
take place and are referred to in notes. It says its tried to locate these recordings
without success from the numbers provided by Mrs Ks family. Ive got no reason to
doubt what it says about that - particularly as Ive requested from Chaucer and been
provided with screenshots showing internal attempts to search for the calls during the
relevant timeframes. Whilst its disappointing that those recordings cant be located,
Im not persuaded that Chaucer is being deliberately obstructive by not providing
them.
Notwithstanding my provisional findings above, Ive also considered whether if Im wrong,
and Chaucer was responsible for providing unsatisfactory service to Mrs K, resulting in
unreasonable delays in confirming cover for Mrs Ks claim and providing assistance, whether
shes lost out as a result. That includes Chaucer unfairly relying on the wrong policy terms toinitially decline cover and/or delays obtaining medical information before then verifying cover
under the policy after initially declining it. And whether Mrs K was caused distress and
inconvenience by this. Even if I accepted that she was, Chaucer agreed not to charge Mrs K
the additional premium in the region of £1,100 to cover the full dates of her trip, which it
wasnt required to do.
So, even if I was satisfied that Chaucer had acted unfairly and unreasonably here (which I
dont for the reasons set out above), I think the amount of the additional premium waived by
Chaucer fairly and sufficiently compensates Mrs K for the distress and inconvenience she
experienced as a result of any wrongdoings Chaucer could be deemed responsible for in this
case.
Other issues
I know Mrs K has raised concerns that Chaucer has breached her data protection rights and
has breached The General Data Protection Regulation, including sending her family call
recordings relating to a different policyholder when sending them recordings of calls relating
to Mrs Ks case. Shes free to raise those concerns with the Information Commissioners
office.
Mrs K has also raised concerns about the tangled web of financial businesses involved with
the policy. Its not unusual for different entities to administer and underwrite a travel
insurance policy, and for different sections of the policy to be underwritten by different
insurers. Its also common for insurers to use medical assistance companies. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator, and I can only look at particular individual 
complaints against stipulated financial businesses about regulated activities. If Mrs K has 
any concerns about the way Chaucer operates its business in general, its finances or the 
relationships and interactions it has with other businesses, shes free to raise those with
the regulator, the FCA.
.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Chaucer didnt reply. Mrs K disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary she said:
I shouldnt be prepared to accept Chaucers word about the nurses names / 
qualifications and records on missing call recordings when shes repeatedly raised 
concerns over Chaucers honesty and transparency. And she still has concerns over 
the qualifications of the nurses who are part of Chaucers medical team.
call recordings werent provided by Chaucer within 30 days of requesting them. And 
my comment that it was disappointing that some of the recordings cant be located, 
and provided, is unacceptable.
she will now approach the FCA to address issues our Service arent able to 
determine as part of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Ive taken into account Mrs Ks further points, which Ive summaries above, 
but they dont change my mind. For the reasons set out below, and for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision (which forms part of my final decision), I dont uphold Mrs Ks 
complaint. As I said in my provisional decision, Chaucers contact notes reflect its representative 
confirmed that the nurses were medically trained. And Ive seen no convincing reason to 
doubt what Chaucer says about that. 
Further, I dont think the advice received from the nurses was detrimental to Mrs K. The 
treating doctor advised that Mrs Ks projected discharge date was 26 March 2022 and shed 
be fit to fly to the UK provided she had wheelchair assistance at the airport. Chaucers 
medical team didnt disagree but did advise that one family member travel to the country 
where Mrs K was visiting to accompany her back. Thats more than the treating doctor 
advised.
I also accepted in my provisional decision that Chaucer hadnt been able to provide two call 
recordings to Mrs K which it accepts did take place and are referred to in notes. Chaucer 
provided our Service with screenshots showing internal attempts to search for the calls 
during the relevant timeframes. I know Mrs K feels very strongly that Chaucer ought to be 
able to provide the recordings. Our Service is able to take into account the absence of 
relevant information when determining individual complaints. But the absence of this 
evidence hasnt impacted my overall findings in the circumstances of this particular case. 
However, Mrs K is free to contact the Information Commissioners Office and/or the FCA if 
she has any wider concerns about Chaucers adherence to The General Data Protection 
Regulation, her data protection rights or the way it conducts its overall business.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman