DRN-2219502
The complaint
Mrs C, represent by Mr C, complains that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading 
as Charter Savings Bank (CSB) didnt transfer her funds into a new bond account that she 
set upon the maturity of a previous bond. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs C set up an online 2-year fixed rate bond account in 2016. CSB contacted Mrs C 
by email before the bond matured. I have seen a copy of the information that would 
have been sent at this time. This sets how to access the options through the online 
maturity options page. It explains that this needs to happen no later than three days 
before the maturity of the bond and if no options are selected then the funds will be 
transferred to an Easy Access Saver account. I have nothing to show that Mrs C 
selected one of the options before the maturity of the 2-year fixed rate bond and so 
her funds were transferred to an Easy Access Saver account on 8 July 2018.
On a call on 11 July 2018, Mrs C is told that her money in in the Easy Access Saver 
account and the interest rate on this. She asks about other bonds available and is 
told about a 5-year fixed rate bond. Although Mrs C says he gave instructions for the 
account to be set up and funded, having listened to the call Mrs C was told that as 
her previous bond had already matured she would need to open a new account 
online and then transfer the funds. Mrs C agreed to this and CSB has said she 
contacted it the same day to reset her password and then logged in that evening to 
apply for the account. Based on the information I have seen and having listened to 
the call, I find that Mrs C was given the information she needed about setting up a 
new account.
Mrs C was sent a welcome letter dated 13 July 2018. I understand that Mrs C 
thought the welcome letter confirmed her account was open and that was the end of 
the process. However, having looked through the letter it clearly states that a deposit 
is needed to be made within 14 days of the application. It explains that if this doesnt 
happen then the account will be closed. CSB has also said that Mrs C was sent an 
email on 16 July 2018 reminding her that the account needed to be funded. 
Mrs C didnt make a deposit into the new account and so it was closed. While I 
understand why Mrs C is upset by this process, as the letter clearly set out what 
needed to happen and I have nothing to support her making the deposit or instructing 
the adviser to do so on the call, I do not find I can say CSB did anything wrong by 
closing the account.
Mr C has challenged why the funds werent transferred back to Mrs Cs bank 
account. I have considered this but as the funds were placed in the Easy Access 
Saver account in line with the terms on maturity of the 2-year fixed rate bond and no 
instructions to move these took place, I do not find I can say CSB did anything wrong 
in this case.
I note the comments made about how the maturity process works for existing 
customers. It isnt my role in this case to comment on the process put in place by 
CSB but instead to decide whether Mrs C has been treated fairly. So, while I 
understand why she is upset, given the information provided I do not find I can say 
she has been treated unfairly.
I also note the comments about accessing the account online and the need to make 
calls. I appreciate the frustration caused but it was Mrs Cs decision to set up an 
online account and if she has concerns about her access then she should raise this 
directly with CSB.
Based on the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Charter Court Financial 
Services Limited trading as Charter Savings Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman