DRN-3062268
The complaint
Miss L has complained about her motor insurer Ageas Insurance Limited because it settled 
an accident claim she had on a shared basis with the other driver. 
What happened
Miss L was involved in an accident on an unmarked country road. She said she had pulled 
far over to her side and the other driver, driving at more than 40 mph, crossed onto Miss Ls 
side of the road. The other driver told her insurer that it was she who had pulled over to her 
side of the road and that it was Miss L, who driving at speed, crossed over. Ageas settled 
the claim on a 50/50 basis with the other insurer. But explained to Miss L that this had been 
done on a without prejudice basis, so she could go to court to challenge the liability if she 
wanted to. Miss L felt that was unfair because, in her view, Ageas hadnt investigated 
enough to establish the likely circumstances that led up to the accident. She complained. 
Our investigator noted that there was little evidence available with which Ageas could 
reasonably have established which driver was recalling the accident accurately. He noted 
Ageas hadnt had an engineer inspect Miss Ls car, or instructed a special investigator to 
report on the accident circumstances. But he felt that, in this case, it would have been 
unlikely that such would have helped established which car was on the wrong side of the 
road. So he wasnt persuaded to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Miss L asked for an 
ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment my findings cause Miss L, Im not going to uphold her 
complaint. I think, overall, Ageas decision was fair and reasonable. Ill explain.
Under the policy Ageas is allowed to decide how to settle claims. And it will do that in the 
best way it sees fit. Which often means it takes a commercial decision as to whether 
pursuing an issue of liability is likely to succeed. If it determines it is unlikely, then it will settle 
on best terms. But when it does that, and a complaint is made to us, it has to be able to 
show that it acted fairly and reasonably in making that decision.
Here the accident occurred at night, on an unmarked country road with no witnesses other 
than the people in the cars  the other driver, Miss L and Miss Ls passenger. Miss L, said in 
her own statement, that she moved her car before any photos of the scene were taken. The 
photos that were taken didnt show where the cars had been when they collided or any 
debris or markings on the road. There were no CCTV cameras in the area and neither car 
had a dashcam. The police didnt attend. So, other than the word of the people involved in 
the accident, there was little evidence of what happened for anyone to assess  the possible 
exception being the cars.
The two drivers involved both have opposing accounts of what happened, although the 
details they give are very similar  almost direct reflections of what the other has said. I know 
Miss L feels that the detail given by the other driver is fairly brief  but her lack of prose 
doesnt make what she has said less reliable or easy for Ageas to simply discount. And 
I know Miss Ls passenger supports her version of events, but his testimony alone wouldnt 
mean the other driver is likely wrong. Testimony like this from those involved in an accident 
is often seen to carry little weight because whilst they are independent in regards to the 
policyholder and motor insurance in place  they may still make a personal injury claim. So 
they cant be considered to be truly independent because, in theory at least, they potentially 
have something to gain.
It does seem odd to me that Ageas didnt seek to inspect and report on the damage to 
Miss Ls car before it had it repaired. It knew from the outset (according to its file) that liability 
for this was likely to be contested. That said I note the damage to both cars was fairly limited 
and, as with the drivers testimonies, very similar. Both drivers side wing mirrors were 
damaged with the body of the car on that side also sustaining damage. I dont think that, 
even if Ageas had ensured Miss Ls car was reported on by an engineer, that their findings 
would have enabled Ageas to make a more certain determination on liability. Thats because 
the impact damage shows that the drivers were passing each other at the time of the 
accident which is not contested. Rather it is the road positioning that is contested  and the 
damage, to the cars, in this circumstance, wont answer that question. 
Appointing a specialist investigator isnt something Id expect an insurer to do as standard in 
a liability case. Although I might find its sometimes appropriate or necessary for it to do so. 
But here there were two directly conflicting accounts of liability, with no evidence to swing or 
even tip the balance of what likely occurred either way. And there was little for a specialist 
investigator to assess because the photos from the scene were limited and there was no 
involvement from the police. Further, whilst it isnt clear if there was any markings or debris 
on the road, I think there was likely little debris caused by the crash. I say that as apart from 
scratches and dents, the damage seems to have been limited to the wing mirrors of each 
car. And Miss Ls car at least was moved in the immediate aftermath of the crash. Any report 
on the road postdating that point would, I think, be easily defended and challenged by the 
other party. 
I appreciate that Miss L fervently believes that she was not at fault for this accident. And Im 
not saying she is wrong. But I am satisfied, based on the evidence available to it, and the 
likely chance of success of pursuing this to acceptance of full liability by the other driver, that 
Ageas acted fairly and reasonably in settling the matter as it did. As Ageas noted to Miss L, it 
settled on a without prejudice basis which means Miss L is free to take action regarding the 
liability herself if she wishes to do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any ward against Ageas Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman