DRN-2693039
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc is holding her liable for cash machine withdrawals 
that she says she neither made nor authorised. 
Mrs B has been helped by a representative, Ms Y in bringing this complaint. But for simplicity 
and ease of reading Ive mostly referred to Mrs B throughout. And any reference to her 
includes the comments and actions of her representative unless otherwise specified.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mrs B receives statements for her account annually. She says in March 2020 when she 
received her statement, she noticed three cash machine withdrawals made in July 2019, 
totalling £900 that she didnt recognise. She reported this to Santander immediately.
Santander investigated Mrs Bs fraud claim. It says it was unable to provide a refund as 
there was no evidence of third-party compromise and the cash withdrawals were 
authenticated using Mrs Bs genuine card and corresponding PIN. 
In May 2020 Mrs B noticed and reported another cash machine withdrawal she didnt 
recognise. The disputed withdrawal was made in April 2020 for £70. She also complained 
that she remained unhappy with the outcome of the fraud claim raised in March 2020. 
Santander maintained its decision to decline Mrs Bs claim relating to the cash withdrawals 
made in July 2019. But it recognised that it should have raised her complaint sooner and 
credited her account with £50 as a way of apology. It confirmed a dispute claim had been 
raised for the £70 cash withdrawal and a provisional refund had been credited to her account 
pending investigation. 
Following its investigation Santander declined Mrs Bs fraud claim for the £70 cash 
withdrawal and re-debited her account. 
Mrs B wants the total disputed amount of £970 refunded and compensation for the stress, 
anxiety and hardship caused. She says;
 
- She never uses a cash machine and still doesnt know how to. 
 
- She did not make these withdrawals, nor has she given her cards, shared or written 
down her PIN. 
- The withdrawals were made some distance from where she lives, and in locations 
she has never visited.
- At the time the July 2019 withdrawals took place, she was visiting her daughter.  
 
- She has reported all the disputed cash machine withdrawals to the Police. 
- She feels there has been some malpractice at her regular branch as her cards are 
delivered to branch for collection.  
Mrs B remained dissatisfied with Santanders response and asked our service to consider 
her complaint. One of our investigators looked into things and didnt uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint. She thought its more likely than not that Mrs B carried out the disputed 
withdrawals herself or provided someone with access to her cards and PIN. Therefore, she 
didnt think Santander needed to provide a refund. 
Mrs B disagreed. She didnt think that a fair outcome had been reached by the investigator 
as CCTV footage had not been obtained and reviewed. She requested an ombudsman 
review her complaint.
 
I spoke and wrote to Mrs Bs representative, Ms Y in an attempt to resolve matters 
informally. I explained that I've reached the same conclusion as the investigator and there's 
not much more I can add to what she has already said. I informed her that I need to decide a 
case on the information available to me and even if CCTV evidence was available it wouldnt 
change the outcome reached.
Mrs B asked for my written final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For very much the same reasons as the investigator, I will not be asking Santander to refund 
the disputed cash withdrawals nor will I be making an award for compensation. I know that 
my decision will be disappointing, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I think its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what 
has happened as I wasn't present at the time the disputed withdrawals occurred. So, I need 
to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of probabilities. I 
must determine what I think is more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
I understand that Mrs B is upset and feels strongly about these incidents. She maintains she 
does not use cash machines, has never travelled to the areas where the disputed 
withdrawals took place and did not make these. But I have to look at all the evidence 
available to me when reaching my decision about whether or not Santanders actions were 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I hope Mrs B appreciates that it 
would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold a complaint based solely on her testimony 
if, on balance, the evidence suggests otherwise.   
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed withdrawals, 
and the evidence. Both Mrs B and Santander have read the investigators view. So, I wont 
repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision.The crux of the dispute here and what I need to decide is whether or not Santander has 
acted unfairly in holding Mrs B liable for the disputed cash machine withdrawals. The 
regulation that is relevant when considering this matter is the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). In short, Santander is generally required to refund any unauthorised 
transactions. But Santander can hold Mrs B liable for the disputed withdrawals if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them.
Firstly, I'm satisfied from the technical evidence provided by Santander Mrs B's cards and 
corresponding PINs were used for the withdrawals.  
Whilst I appreciate, Mrs B believes she had her cards ordered to branch, Santander has 
provided this service with its system records to evidence both cards used to carry out the 
disputed withdrawals were not ordered to branch  they were sent to Mrs B's home address. 
Similarly, I can see at the time each card was issued, a PIN was also sent to Mrs Bs home 
address. Therefore, it is quite possible someone with access to Mrs Bs post couldve 
intercepted her cards and PINs. 
Ive considered whether the withdrawals couldve been made by another member of Mrs Bs 
household. But from what shes told us, that seems unlikely. She lives with her son, but she 
says that he doesnt know how to use a cash machine, so it couldnt have been him that 
carried out the cash withdrawals. 
Mrs B is adamant that neither she nor her son carried out the withdrawals. She believes 
there to have been branch malpractice. Ive thought about what Mrs B has said but the card 
she picked up from branch in August 2019 was not used to carry out any of the disputed 
withdrawals. Also, an allegation of this nature is a serious matter and one which needs to be 
supported by evidence. And in this case, I dont think there is evidence which sufficiently 
persuades me that, in these circumstances branch malpractice has taken place. 
Notwithstanding, a claim of this nature is considered criminal and is a matter for the Police.
Mrs B is unhappy Santander didnt check CCTV. She believes, had it done so, it wouldve 
proven her innocence. I can understand why Mrs B feels strongly about this point but firstly, 
the CCTV for the cash machines utilised to make the disputed withdrawals belong to other 
banks and Santander wouldn't have had access to the footage nor is it under any obligation 
to obtain this. Secondly, even if CCTV footage was obtained all that it would ever prove is 
whether or not Mrs B, in person, carried out the withdrawals. What it wouldnt prove is 
whether they were or werent carried out with her knowledge and consent. And the issue I 
need to decide isnt who physically carried out the withdrawals, but rather were these 
authorised. And under the relevant regulation the withdrawals do not, physically, need to be 
made by Mrs B to be considered authorised. If the evidence, on balance, supports they were 
likely made with Mrs Bs knowledge and consent, Santander can hold her liable.
I've also thought about the possibility that Mrs B may have been unlucky enough to have lost 
her card twice. But it still doesn't explain how an opportunist obtained her PIN as Mrs B has 
said she destroyed all PIN slips and never had her card PIN written down.  
Ive carefully considered everything provided by both parties and, on balance, I think its 
unlikely that there was branch malpractice or an unknown third party in possession of 
Mrs B's card correctly guessed her PIN. Its more likely the cash withdrawals were carried 
out with Mrs Bs knowledge and consent. So Im satisfied Santanders decision to not refund 
the disputed withdrawals is fair and reasonable. I also dont think a compensatory award is 
warranted as I cant fairly say it was Santanders actions that have led to Mrs Bs stress, 
anxiety and hardship.      My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complain. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman