DRN-3194789
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Ms C says AXA France IARD mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Ms Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA France made it clear that Ms C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the store card application form that 
Ms C filled in. The form had a separate section for PPI with a yes box that had to be 
ticked to request the policy. Ms C has ticked the yes box and then signed next to it to 
confirm that she wanted the PPI. She could have left that section blank if she had not 
wanted it.
AXA France didnt recommend the PPI to Ms C, so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Ms C enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA France gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms C. Although Ms C says 
she had some medical conditions some time before the policy was taken out, I dont 
think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion would have 
caused her to change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because Ms C has 
told us about some health issues she had between 1984  1986, which was some time 
before the sale. She has also mentioned some health issues she suffered in 1995 but 
has said that she only had two weeks off work as a result of them. So I have no reason 
to believe that she was still being affected by these conditions at the time of the sale in 
September 1996. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms C would have 
declined the cover had AXA France done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Ms Cs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Ms C would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA France should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Ms Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA France doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman