DRN-3295414
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited is asking him to repay a debt that is statute-
barred. Mr A wants Hoist to write the debt off based on the impact this is having on his 
mental health.
What happened
Mr A owed money to a business I will refer to as S. In late 2014, S sold the debt to Hoist 
Portfolio Holding 2 Limited (HPH2) which then assigned the debt to Hoist in around October 
2018.
Mr A complained to Hoist in late 2020. He said the debt was statute barred as hed not made 
any payments towards it for more than six years. Hoist didnt uphold his complaint as it had 
received a payment towards the debt from S in 2016.
When Mr A complained to this service, he explained that the debt was impacting his mental 
health. The investigator asked Mr A to give this service more details about how his mental 
health condition affected his ability to manage his finances. Mr A sent this service a Debt 
and Mental Health Evidence Form (DMHEF) that his doctor had completed. The investigator 
sent this to Hoist but it didnt agree to write the debt off.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld. She didnt think the debt 
was statute barred as S had made a payment against the balance in 2016.
The investigator said that at the time Mr A asked Hoist to write the debt off, he hadnt made it 
aware of his mental health problems. But that based on the evidence Hoist now had about 
Mr As mental health, it wasnt reasonable to require it to write the debt off.
Mr A is very unhappy about the investigators recommendation. He says that the debt is 
severely impacting his mental health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first like to say that I have every sympathy for Mr A and the mental health struggles 
that hes facing.
My decision only deals with the actions of Hoist and not S but Ive included some information 
on the complaint that Mr A made to this service about S as its relevant to his current 
complaint against Hoist. 
Mr A was unhappy about the charges that S had applied to his current account before it sold 
the debt to HPH2. Mr A thought S should amend his credit file and refund the entire amount 
he owed. This service considered his complaint in 2016 and the ombudsman decided that S 
had acted reasonably when it reduced the amount Mr A owed by £541. She didnt require S 
to remove the default or take any other steps. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
that S wrote the debt off. So, I cant find that Hoist acted unfairly by asking Mr A to repay the 
outstanding balance when it took the debt over in 2018.
This service cant declare a debt statute barred  it would be for a court to decide this. Even 
if a debt is statute barred, it still exists and is recoverable. However, I can consider whether 
Hoist treated Mr A fairly once he told it that the debt was more than six years old. 
When Mr A asked Hoist to write the debt off in 2020, I dont think it was aware of his mental 
health problems. So, I cant find that Hoist shouldve taken account of Mr As circumstances 
at the time. And Im satisfied that Hoist had reason to believe that Mr A owed money on the 
debt. 
Hoist has now seen Mr As DMHEF, so Ive considered whether its still reasonable to 
continue asking for payment. 
Financial businesses are required to follow the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The relevant rules and regulations are contained in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC).
CONC 7.2.2 says that CONC 7.2.2 says that customers with mental health difficulties or 
mental capacity limitations may fall in the category of particularly vulnerable customers. 
CONC 7.2.3 says that in developing procedures and policies for dealing with customers who 
may not have the mental capacity to make financial decisions, firms may wish to have regard 
to the principles outlined in the Money Advice Liaison Group (MALG) Good Practice 
Awareness Guidelines for Consumers with Mental Health Problems and Debt. 
The DMHEF says that although Mr A is suffering from a mental health condition that affects 
his ability to concentrate, hes able to communicate normally and has fluctuating support. I 
dont think this means that Hoist is wrong not to write the debt off. Or that it shouldnt 
continue to ask Mr A to repay the debt. But going forward, I would expect Hoist to be mindful 
of the MALG guidance when it communicates with Mr A. I would also expect Hoist to take 
account of any further information that Mr A may give about his ability to repay the debt.
If Mr A is unhappy with the way that Hoist treats him in the future, I dont see why he couldnt 
complain again. Its just that for now, I dont consider Hoist has treated Mr A unfairly. This 
means I dont uphold his complaint. Im very sorry that this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr A.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman