DRN-3666768
The complaint
Ms B complains that two loans were lent to her by Evergreen Finance London Limited, 
trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, when she could not afford them.
And Ms B complains that before pursuing her through the Courts for the debt on loan 2 
MoneyBoat ought to have done more. Ms B says she was pursued aggressively.
Ms B says she did not receive a Letter before Action from MoneyBoat before the court 
proceedings were issued.
Ms B claims for refunds, amendments to her credit file and money for distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
Ms B was approved for two loans with MoneyBoat and here is a brief table of those loans. 
There was a significant gap between loan 1 and loan 2 such that our adjudicator considered 
that loan 2 was the start of a new lending relationship.
Loan 
numberDate Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
monthly 
Repayment
1 19/06/2018 27/07/2018 2 £200.00 £115.63
2 28/08/2019 20/07/2020
following CCJ in June 
20206 £1,000.00 £308.92
Ms B complained to MoneyBoat in February 2021 using an on-line complaint service and 
copies of those documents and emails have been sent to us. 
Ms B received the final response letter (FRL) from MoneyBoat in February 2021 in which it 
gave details of the two loans and her applications to it, its own process and that it thought it 
had done all the right checks before approving the loans.
And on the points appertaining to the County Court Judgment (CCJ) obtained in June 2020, 
MoneyBoat said:
I feel it is also worth noting that prior to the judgement and you settling the balance 
on 20 July 2020 there had still been no contact from yourself or [debt advice charity]. 
With this in mind I certainly cannot agree that we aggressively pursued court action, 
the evidence shows that we made every effort to engage with you regarding your 
missed payments and we allowed more than adequate time for contact from [debt 
advice charity], however this was never forthcoming.
Several adjudicators have looked at this complaint. I do not run through all the history here. 
The third adjudicator looked at the complaint and revised the previous views. Having 
reviewed the credit information MoneyBoat had before lending, our adjudicator thought that 
the amount of debt Ms B was already in at the time she applied to MoneyBoat for loans 1 
and 2 meant that when considered alongside her other expenses her likely total expenditure 
exceeded her income. So, she felt that Ms B was not able to afford the loans and that 
MoneyBoat should put things right for Ms B for both loans.
That third view did not address the CCJ issues.
One of our adjudicators had asked both parties for information about the CCJ in relation to 
loan 2. It is important that I set out what MoneyBoat has said ( I have changed the 
complainants name to Ms B for privacy):
Ms B took out the loan in August 2019 and failed to make any of her scheduled 
repayments, despite numerous attempts to contact the customer to discuss the 
missed payments (via telephone, email SMS messaging and a default notice via the 
post) we received no communication from Ms B until 2 January 2020 (at this stage 
we had already began preparing the case for legal proceedings).
Ms B's contact on 2 January 2020 advised that she was going with [debt advice 
charity], at this time we agreed to hold the account for 30 days to allow them to make 
contact. We received no further contact from Ms B or [debt advice charity] after the 
hold period had ended (we even emailed an offer of a small discount on the balance 
to try and bring the account back inline).
Due to lack of contact or payment we began legal proceedings and submitted a 
Money ClaimsOnline (MCOL) case for monies owed - judgement by the courts was 
made in our favor [sic] on 24 June 2020.
Ms B repaid the judgment debt in full on 20 July 2020.
When we asked Ms B for any copy correspondence and such like that she may have 
received from MoneyBoat about the court proceedings her responses were:
Money boat did not send me a letter before action, confirming CCJ action was being 
taken. That forms part of my complaint- that they made no attempts to support me 
despite me contacting them to tell them I was in financial difficulty.
I don't have any letters. I requested a SAR last year but they ignored my request.
When I received the CCJ, I called them to make payment. I don't have any 
correspondence I'm afraid.And more recently Ms B has given us more information which is addressed later in this 
decision. 
I have been sent a copy of the on-line resolution service emails between Ms B and 
MoneyBoat created when she launched this complaint in February 2021. And I have 
reviewed that as it has useful copy correspondence between Ms B and the Money Claims 
Online (MCOL) organisation about that CCJ.
I have details of Ms Bs applications for the loans to MoneyBoat, plus its copy credit 
searches carried out before lending plus the account notes for the period Ms B was a 
customer. I have copies of the agreements and one copy recorded call between Ms B and 
MoneyBoat which I think was dated around January 2020 as Ms B refers to receiving advice 
from the well-known debt advice charity to which MoneyBoat has referred in its 
correspondence with us. And the 30 day suspension was referred to in that call which 
I understand was January 2020. I have reviewed them all.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
After I had received the complaint, I asked colleagues to obtain further information about the 
CCJ and I wanted more details about the contact between the parties in the lead up to that 
CCJ being sought and obtained. I also wanted some details about the court proceedings 
from MoneyBoat. But nothing was received at that time. We did receive more after I had 
issued my provisional decision which I refer to later.
The complaint had been with the Financial Ombudsman Service since Ms B had referred it 
to us on 16 August 2021. This meant it needed resolution and so I decided to issue a 
provisional decision thereby allowing both parties to respond to what I said in it. That was 
issued on 10 August 2022 and both parties have responded to give me more information. 
The provisional decision is set out here in full for ease of reference and in smaller type to 
differentiate it from this, my final decision. 
My provisional decision dated 22 August 2022 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Preliminary point on the CCJ
Loan 1 was not subject to any court proceedings and was paid off by Ms B long before loan 2 was 
applied for. The irresponsible lending part of the complaint for loan 1 is one I can proceed with and 
later in this provisional decision I have given my provisional findings on the merits of loan 1.
For Loan 2 there is a complication due to there being a CCJ in relation to that loan 2 debt. I have 
come to some provisional findings using the information I have obtained from the parties about it.
Ms B has been careful in what she has said in all her letters and emails relating to this complaint 
including her complaint form. She has said she has never received a Letter Before Action from 
MoneyBoat before it took the matter to court. And she asked it for confirmation whether MoneyBoat 
had sent her a letter before action prior to issuing proceedings against her.
And in Ms Bs complaint form sent to us she said:
Despite me contacting Moneyboat to let them know I was in financial difficulty after 
defaulting, Money boat proceeded to issue proceedings against me and had not sent me a 
Letter Before Action prior to this. I received a CCJ and so borrowed money to pay this off 
within a month so as not to affect my credit file further.The account notes indicate that she received a series of collections letters to her email address in 
October 2020 and November 2020 and was moved to default status on 29 November 2020. The 
account notes also show that MoneyBoat tried to contact her by telephone several times and had no 
success. It also sent her texts about the arrears.
The recorded telephone call when Ms B called MoneyBoat does seem to have been done on 
2 January 2020. I say that because I have listened to that recorded call and what Ms B says about 
approaching the debt advice charity coincides with the account notes which states that Ms B had 
gone to the debt advice charity. Her account was placed on hold for 30 days. The MoneyBoat 
representative warned Ms B that she needs to ensure that the charity contacted it within that 30 day 
suspension period. Nothing else is recorded in the account notes until April 2020 when the notes say 
that Ms B was in arrears. And then theres a note to say that Ms B called to pay off the loan in full on 
20 July 2020  after the CCJ was obtained in June 2020.
If I am satisfied that the court hearing was a defended hearing in which the Judge heard arguments 
from Ms B about irresponsible lending then this complaint cannot go ahead about loan 2. As, following 
a full court hearing the matter could not be reopened here as a complaint.
If, however, I am satisfied that it was a Judgment entered against Ms B following an uncontested 
hearing then it seems unlikely that I can conclude the arguments on irresponsible lending were aired 
in court. In which case I would be able to proceed with the complaint here. I do not have anything 
concrete, despite asking for it from MoneyBoat, to inform me of the type of hearing and what took 
place.
So, I have used what evidence and information I have to come to this provisional finding. 
As Ms B has said she did not receive confirmation that proceedings were being issued then its 
unlikely that Ms B entered a defence to the proceedings. Using the information I have I think its more 
likely it was a Judgment in default following an uncontested hearing. So, I do not think that the 
irresponsible lending arguments were aired in court. So, I consider that I can look at the merits of the 
complaint for loan 2 alongside loan 1. 
If either party can clarify this then that would be helpful.
The allegation that MoneyBoat pursued her aggressively and gave her no support
As I am focussing on the CCJ part of the lending relationship then I think this would be the 
appropriate time in this provisional decision to give my view on this part of Ms Bs complaint.
Overall, having reviewed the correspondence I have, having listened to the recorded call from 
January 2020, having seen the account notes from MoneyBoat, then I do not accept that either of 
these parts of Ms Bs complaint are made out.
MoneyBoat had tried to contact her  on her email, mobile and through her work  several times 
before escalating the debt collections actions. It cannot provide support for a customer who does not 
respond to it. And when Ms B did call MoneyBoat in or around January 2020 then she received 
support in the form of a 30 day suspension.
And I am persuaded by MoneyBoats explanation that it did not pursue her aggressively before the 
court proceedings.
And I do not think that Ms B was ignorant of the court proceedings. I can see from the account notes 
that Ms Bs correct email address and correct address were known to MoneyBoat, even the contact 
numbers for her employer. So, I think that Ms B was aware of the contact and likely received many of 
the contact attempts MoneyBoat made.
Careful reading of her complaint is that she did not receive a very particular part of what she 
considers to have been the lead up to the legal proceedings  that she did not receive a formal Letter Before Action. But I think its very likely she received other correspondence  email, telephone or 
arrears and default notices sent to her address (email or home).
I have noted that Ms B was quick to pay the full amount following the CCJ and within the month. 
There was an advantage to her credit file and the registering of that CCJ as settled if she paid it 
within the month. So, I consider it likely she received that CCJ and reacted quickly having received it 
through the channels no doubt MoneyBoat had been using prior to the proceedings.
So, I do not plan to award any compensation either for the alleged distress for MoneyBoats method 
of obtaining the CCJ or for Ms Bs contention that it offered her no support when she was in arrears. 
I do not think that Ms Bs complaint about the way she was pursued and the lack of help are made 
out. I plan not to uphold these parts of Ms Bs complaint.
Irresponsible lending complaints for loans 1 and 2
The current position is contained in our adjudicators third view which was that she felt both loans 
ought not to have been approved for Ms B.
I do not agree about loan 1. I have received copies of the credit search results carried out by 
MoneyBoat in June 2018. The loan Ms B was applying for was a relatively modest one of
£200, she was a new customer and it was to be repaid quickly over two months. So, within the context 
of that application background I think that the checks were proportionate and MoneyBoat approved 
her for the loan knowing of her debt situation. So I plan not to uphold Ms Bs complaint about loan 1.
There was a gap before Ms B applied for the £1,000 loan in August 2019 and it was to be repaid over 
six months. And I do think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have approached Ms Bs application as 
if she was a new customer and so I think it carried out proportionate checks.
However, whether MoneyBoat read the information it had about Ms B properly before deciding to lend 
is what I have considered. The debt situation Ms B was maintaining in August 2019 was extensive 
and had increased from Loan 1. MoneyBoat knew this as its the credit search results document which 
has led me to conclude that Ms Bs indebtedness was too great for MoneyBoat to have responsibly 
lent to her at that time.
The headline summary from the credit search results obtained just before loan 2 was:
Indebtedness Indicators
Total Balances (All): £ 31,721
Total Balances (Loans/Instalment Credit): £ 23,607 
Total Balances (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 6,959 
Total Limits (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 8,620 
Balance to Limit Ratio (Revolving Credit/Budget):   80 %
SHARE - Financial Data
Number of Accounts: 64
Number of Active Accounts: 23
Number of Settled Accounts: 39
Number of Accounts Opened in Last 6 Months: 5
The search results show Ms B had a great deal of debt and many active accounts and had opened 
several new accounts just before applying for the MoneyBoat loan.
I can see from that set of search results that Ms B had obtained loans earlier the same month in 
August 2019 and a £5,000 and a £950 loan in July 2019. Shed taken another £5,288 loan in 
April 2019. The repayments for all her loans plus her usual expenses leads me to think that it was 
very unlikely Ms B was going to be able to afford the loan 2 repayments of over £300 a month for the 
term of the loan.
So, I am planning to uphold Ms Bs complaint about loan 2.If Ms B wants to apply to set the CCJ aside then that is an altogether separate procedure from this 
complaint process and Ms B must take independent legal advice about that.
So my provisional decision ended by outlining the planned redress and summarising the 
provisional decision outcome as:
My provisional decision, on current evidence, is that I can consider loan 2, that I do 
not plan to uphold the complaint about loan 1, I plan to uphold the complaint about 
loan 2.
Further, on current evidence, I do not plan to uphold the complaint relating to the pre-
action correspondence, Ms Bs allegation of being pursued aggressively before the 
CCJ and that Ms B says she received no support from MoneyBoat.
I will review the complaint in two weeks on 24 August 2022.
Both parties responded and so now I have reviewed all the evidence again and the new 
information and I have come to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After my provisional decision was issued I gave time to both parties to respond. 
MoneyBoat replied and sent us several documents.. 
One response from MoneyBoat was that it had nothing to add and so I take that to mean it 
had no further evidence to add in relation to the merits of the case.
In relation to the CCJ, MoneyBoat did have some copy documents. A copy of Ms Bs 
acknowledgment of the service of court proceedings (dated 4 May 2020) in which Ms B had 
indicated to the court she did intend to defend part of MoneyBoats claim. The court covering 
letter said that Ms B had 28 days in which to file her response. And MoneyBoat sent to us a 
copy of the Judgment date 24 June 2020.
These were sent to Ms B for her to comment on.
Ms B responded to my provisional decision to say that:
She had not received a letter before claim from MoneyBoat
She had amassed £40,000 of debt across 23 creditors and it had become 
overwhelming
She did not recall MoneyBoat making attempts to contact her by phone, email or post 
 it went straight to court action. 
She did not defend the case and it was a default judgment
She wants the agreement cleared from my credit file  and the interest being paid 
back to me. Ms B further responded after receiving the copy court documents from us and said:
She was startled and overwhelmed when she received the court documents in 
2020
She did respond to defend the claim in 2020 but then ran out of time to put in a 
court response
She knew it was right to pay to MoneyBoat the capital amount of £1,000 but did 
not feel it was right to pay the interest
She was upset at the timing of the court action  April/May 2020  just as the 
Covid 19 lockdown commenced in March 2020
Ms B also describes how very distressed she was by her debt situation at that time (2020) 
and was being pursued by 23 creditors. 
All these documents and submissions I have reconsidered with the original complaint 
material. 
I am sorry to hear of Ms Bs distress and it sounded challenging to have to deal with so 
much debt.
The information from both parties has helped me to clarify some points and so I summarise 
them here without setting out all the details again as the provisional decision (duplicated 
above) was deliberately detailed.
What I have decided
Now, I am satisfied that the court proceedings did end in a Judgment in Default in 2020 and 
no contested court hearing took place. So, I can state with more confidence than before that 
I am able to review the complaint about loan 2.
I have looked again at what Ms B has said about the lead up to receiving the court 
documents and MoneyBoats explanations as to how it tried to obtain the payments for the 
debt. I have looked again at the account notes and the recorded call from 30 January 2020. 
Still I am of the view that MoneyBoat had tried to contact her  on her email, mobile and 
through her work  several times before escalating the debt collections actions. It cannot 
provide support for a customer who does not respond to it. And when Ms B did call 
MoneyBoat in January 2020 then she received support in the form of a 30 day suspension.
And I am persuaded by MoneyBoats explanation that it did not pursue her aggressively 
before the court proceedings. Ms B had been in debt to it well before the Covid 19 lockdown 
commenced and so I think that the timing was coincidental. 
My assumption that Ms B was aware of the court proceedings has been confirmed and so 
I see no reason to think that any earlier emails or letters addressed to her about the debt or 
any warning of court proceedings would not have reached her. Ms B took the loan in 
August 2019 and when she did respond to the MoneyBoat debt notices and telephone call in 
January 2020, she was given a 30 day suspension. And she had informed MoneyBoat she 
was obtaining advice from the well-known debt advice charity.    
I can understand that if Ms B had so many creditors chasing her at once then that must have 
been very difficult, but I cannot attribute MoneyBoats actions to that. I consider from the 
evidence I have gathered over the life of this complaint (and it has taken several attempts to get as much as I have now got from both parties) then it went about it in an ordinary way. 
I repeat all my provisional findings about this part of Ms Bs complaint. I do not award any 
compensation either for the alleged distress for MoneyBoats method of obtaining the CCJ or 
for Ms Bs contention that it offered her no support when she was in arrears. 
On the irresponsible lending parts  I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint about loan 1 and I do 
uphold her complaint about loan 2. MoneyBoat has no more to add on this part and so 
without more I have no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision. 
On the redress, Ms B has said that she wants the loan to be removed from her credit file. 
After a successful irresponsible lending complaint, I would not usually ask for the loan to be 
deleted from her credit file and I see no reason to depart from our approach here. The 
redress will remain as it was set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I direct that MoneyBoat does as follows:
refund all interest and charges Ms B paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative payment information about loan 2 from Ms Bs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and I direct that Evergreen Finance 
London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, does as I have outlined above in the putting 
things right section of the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman