DRN-3102036
The complaint
Mr M complains about the fee Karmen Funding Limited charged him after hed requested to 
cancel his contract with it.
What happened
Mr M instructed Karmen Funding to assist him with a claim about a mis-sold pension.
Mr M says when he spoke to Karmen Funding in July 2020, he was told his case had been 
passed to a law firm. When he contacted the law firm, he was told a fee of 36% would apply. 
Mr M says he gave instruction for his contract with Karmen Funding to be terminated but his 
request was ignored.
In October 2020 the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FCSC) awarded Mr M over 
£30,000 in compensation for his pension claim. The cheque was paid to Karmen Funding 
who told Mr M it would be deducting its commission from his compensation payment. Mr M 
says Karmen Funding initially told him it had no record of him terminating the contract but 
later acknowledged that he had but decided to submit the claim anyway. Karmen Funding 
sent Mr M a cheque after deducting commission of over £11,000 from the compensation.
Mr M made a complaint to Karmen Funding, but he didnt get a response, so he brought it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns and thought his complaint should 
be upheld. He was satisfied that Mr M had informed Karmen Funding that he no longer 
wished it to act on his behalf. He thought Karmen Funding should have terminated the 
agreement at that point and applied cancellation charges in line with the agreement. Our 
investigator concluded that Karmen Funding was entitled to charge Mr M a maximum of 
£450. He recommended it refund the balance of the funds it had retained and also pay Mr M 
8% simple interest.
 
Karmen Funding disagreed with our investigators view. It said it would be arguing a number 
of points. Our investigator agreed to Karmen Fundings request to allow it more time to 
respond but it didnt provide any further comments. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M agreed for Karmen Funding to represent him on a no win, no fee basis, for a fee of 
36% of compensation obtained for him. 
Karmen Funding has provided us a copy of the terms and conditions it sent Mr M as part of 
its welcome pack. These say:
Termination/Cancelation of this Agreement
You have the right to cancel your contract within 14 days of signing the terms and conditions 
with no charge. This is called your cooling-off period. If you wish to terminate your 
agreement after this period, we reserve the right to invoice you for work carried out on your 
claim. The invoice will be itemised to demonstrate what you are being charged for and will 
be capped at £450. The 14 day cancellation period will commence when we receive these 
terms and conditions back. Any of the above methods for cancellation will be accepted.
The key facts document which was also included in the welcome pack says that cancellation 
of the agreement can be communicated by telephone, in writing or in person.
Mr M says he instructed Karmen Funding to terminate his contract in July 2020, but his 
request was ignored. I havent got any call recordings or notes to show what Mr M might 
have discussed with Karmen Funding over the phone. But the claims management company 
who is representing him in this complaint has provided a recording of a phone conversation 
Mr M had with it in July 2020. Mr M referred to a discussion hed had with Karmen Funding 
and his intention to call it back later that day to cancel his agreement with it. So, I think Mr M 
is likely to have attempted to cancel the contract over the phone.
Karmen Funding has provided a copy of an email Mr M sent to it in July 2020 which is 
entitled cancellation and says he wishes to cancel his claim. I havent seen anything to 
show that Karmen Funding responded to this email and it also hasnt given us any 
explanation for not acting on it. 
Im satisfied from the above that Mr M instructed Karmen Funding to cancel his agreement 
with it.
From what I can see, Karmen Funding had already submitted Mr Ms claim when he gave 
the instruction to cancel it. But the FSCS didnt notify Karmen Funding or Mr M of its decision 
to pay him compensation until October 2020. So, Im satisfied this happened after Mr M 
contacted Karmen Funding to cancel the contract.
According to Karmen Fundings terms and conditions, in the event of the contract being 
terminated before the claims process had concluded, it would invoice Mr M for the work 
carried out and its fee would be capped at £450. So, I think the fee Karmen Funding charged 
Mr M should have been in line with this.
Putting things right
Karmen Funding should:
Apply cancellation charges based on the work carried out on Mr Ms claim capped at 
£450 (providing Mr M with an itemised invoice to show this).
Subtract the cancellation charges from the funds it retained from Mr Ms claim and 
refund the balance to him.
Add 8% simple interest per year* to this amount from when it received the payment 
from FSCS to the date the refund is paid to Mr M.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Karmen Funding to deduct tax from this interest. Karmen 
Funding should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Karmen Funding 
Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman