DRN-2024816
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Santander UK Plc (Santander) set up an account.
What happened
What Mr R says
Mr R says that in around September 2019 a Santander current account was opened 
fraudulently in his name by someone using his personal details and this led to him being 
targeted in a mobile phone delivery scam. No payment was made from the account for the 
phones as it was closed before any direct debit payments were made.
Mr R says that as he didnt have an active Santander account at the time the new account 
was opened (as he had a zero balance on a Santander account from 2010 and closed the 
account in April 2016) he shouldnt have been classed as an existing customer in the 
account opening process. The application made by the fraudster should therefore have been 
subject to the account opening process for a new customer, which he explained involves 
providing two forms of identification, one of which should be proof of address. But this wasnt 
what happened when the account was opened, as Santander accepts it did not request this 
identification. As a result, Mr R says Santander failed to protect him from criminal activity 
and put him to a lot of stress and inconvenience in dealing with the scam that followed. 
The fraud was reported to Santander on 5 September 2019 and it closed the account and 
removed it from Mr Rs credit file. Mr R says his losses include two days lost work at a daily 
rate of £450, two years subscription to Experian at £14.99 a month, a £25 payment to 
CIFAS and £10 petrol and mileage to return one of the mobile phones delivered to his 
address. Mr R also feels that Santander should pay him a reasonable amount for the 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
What Santander say
Santander say it followed its account opening process correctly. There was no requirement 
for identification as the personal details provided matched its records and with those of a 
credit reference agency. Santander also noted it had Mr Rs historic account information on 
file as his account wasnt closed until 2016. Although Santander said it had followed its 
procedures correctly it agreed to pay Mr R £50 for his distress, inconvenience and time in 
resolving the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the setting up of the account and the mobile phone scam has caused Mr R a lot 
of stress and inconvenience. My role is to consider whether Santander did anything wrong in 
relation to its use of Mr Rs data when setting up the account and, if so, how it should put 
things right. 
In saying Santander hasnt followed the correct process in opening an account in his name 
in 2019 Mr R is relying on wording on Santanders website and in a customer identification 
document referred to. 
Santanders website says,
What kind of ID do we ask for?
Depending on whether you're a new or existing customer, and whether you're UK-
based or not, we might ask you for:
A driving licence
A passport
A letter from HMRC or the Department of Work and Pensions
A council tax bill or demand
A bank statement
You'll need to take a look at our customer identification documents (1.79 MB) list to 
understand exactly what well need from you depending on your individual position.
The customer identification document provides details of what a customer needs to do if they 
are existing or new customers. The existing customer section says that certain documents 
may be asked for and goes on to say,
To be an existing customer, you must hold an active account with Santander UK.
Mr R says he didnt have an active account with Santander, as his account was closed three 
years earlier, so he shouldnt be classed as an existing customer. The identification 
document also covers what a new customer needs to do and says,
Please provide one ID document from List 1 and one ID document from List 2. 
One of the documents must be proof of address.
List one relates to proof of identity and list two to proof of address.
Santanders full account opening procedures arent provided online but are set out internally 
because they are highly confidential and constantly under review. Many factors can affect 
how Santander opens an account and the document published online isnt binding on 
Santander. The identification document doesnt say it covers what must be provided in all 
cases, and I note it uses expressions like, in certain circumstances and to what a customer 
might be required to provide. The document says in bold, If youre unable to meet the 
identification requirements detailed above, we may still be able to help which also suggests 
the document doesnt set out what must happen for each application to open an account. 
In Mr Rs case Im told that Santander has followed the correct process and that the account 
wasnt opened solely on the basis of information held by Santander. Santander used 
electronic identification at the point of application and no further identification was required. 
Put simply, the information provided at application stage is run against credit data and if a 
customer has a financial footprint and the details match no identification is required to open the account. If a footprint doesnt exist or match a customer will be asked to provide 
identification documentation. 
Santander hasnt been able to demonstrate to me that it followed the correct process 
because it cant share such confidential information. But Im satisfied that the identification 
document Mr R has relied on doesnt set out the process in full or dictate what Santander 
must do or ask for when setting up an account. Santander has offered £50 to compensate 
Mr R for any confusion and I think its offer is reasonable.  
In all the circumstances of the complaint Im not persuaded Santander acted unreasonably in 
the way it used Mr Rs data when it set up the new account. Given my conclusion, Im not 
going on to consider Mr Rs consequential losses.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman