DRN-3073611
The complaint
Miss A has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt fairly settled a claim she made
under her home insurance policy following a burglary.
What happened
In February 2020 Miss A was burgled and she made a claim to her insurer, AXA. AXA has
paid a settlement for some of the items Miss A claimed for, but not all. Miss A is unhappy
that AXA wont pay for the remaining items under the claim.
Miss A had made a claim for a burglary in 2016 with another insurer. When Miss A made a 
claim to AXA in 2020,  there was a duplication of many of the items Miss A claimed for in 
2020. So AXA asked Miss A for evidence to show she replaced the items previously claimed 
for. Miss A said she paid for the replaced claimed items in cash and didnt have any receipts.
Miss A provided photos of her and her family wearing and using some of the items being
claimed for  as well as bank statements showing cash withdrawals which she says tally with
hand written receipts she later provided for some of the items.
AXA says Miss A hasnt provided sufficient proof of ownership or purchase for the remaining
items. Miss A was able to provide sufficient evidence of proof of purchase for the high value
jewellery items claimed for. So AXA settled this part of her claim. AXA says it has acted
correctly. It said the photos dont prove the designer items are genuine and not counterfeit. 
Miss A claimed for damage to her property and contents as a result of the claim, but AXA 
said there isnt any evidence to support this part of the claim.
Our investigator thought Miss A had reasonably shown that her claim for the remaining items
was valid. So he recommended AXA meet the rest of Miss As claim.
AXA didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional decision on 
20 August 2021. I thought AXA had reached its decision to decline part of Miss As claim in a 
reasonable way. 
Miss A didnt agree with my provisional decision. She says shes provided almost everything 
AXA asked for under the policy to prove her claim. Shes unhappy that AXA hasnt met her 
claim for property damage which she says was significant as well as the remaining items she 
claimed for. 
Miss A says the family photos she has provided show when they were taken due to the ages 
of her children. She says they show the jewellery and designer clothes being worn. Miss A 
says she has provided proof of purchasing designer clothing after the event to show that she 
doesnt buy counterfeit items. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A made a previous complaint to AXA which it replied to on 22 September 2020. This
has been investigated by this service and so events up to that date do not form part of my
decision.
Ive carefully considered the information and comments Mrs A has provided in response to 
my provisional decision. Im sorry to disappoint Miss A, but having done so, it hasnt 
changed my decision. I dont think AXAs decision to decline part of Miss As claim was 
unreasonable. Ill explain why.
The burglary happened in February 2020. Miss A claimed for over 20 items of high value
jewellery, electrical items and designer clothing and accessories to the value of several
thousand pounds. AXA asked Miss A for proof of purchase or ownership for the items being
claimed for, but Miss A said she wasnt able to provide any - other than for the high value
jewellery. In September 2020 Miss A provided a witness statement to AXA in response to
questions it had about the lack of proof of purchase for many of the items being claimed for - 
and the duplication of items from a settled claim in 2016 which Miss A says she replaced. 
A year after the burglary Miss A provided AXA with hand written receipts for the electrical 
items which she says she found at home. And Miss A later found designer labels for some of 
the clothing, but no receipts.
Our investigator asked Miss A for proof to demonstrate that purchasing designer clothing
was in keeping with her lifestyle. Miss A provided an email receipt for an item of designer 
clothing purchased in May 2021.
Miss A has provided photos of her and her family wearing some of the clothing and using
some of the electrical items being claimed for. AXA asked for proof of the dates the photos
were taken but Miss A said she isnt able to do this because she lost her phone.
AXA said the photos alone dont show the clothing items are designer and not counterfeit.
Miss A explained that she replaced many of the items stolen in 2016. Redacted bank
statements provided by Miss A show some cash withdrawals. Miss A says this show she 
bought items for cash.
In my provisional decision I said that if Miss A was able to show proof of purchase for the 
majority of the remaining items being claimed for, it might be unreasonable for AXA to 
decline her claim. But Miss A hasnt provided any reasonable evidence of proof of purchase 
for any of the designer clothing items she says were bought in the two to four years before 
the burglary. I dont think the information Miss A provided for the electrical items is enough to 
show proof of purchase or ownership. 
In response, Miss A has provided duplicate photos of the property damage she claimed for 
and family photos. I can confirm I reviewed these photos before writing my provisional 
decision. Miss A has also provided a further receipt for the online purchase of a designer 
handbag in February 2020. 
In relation to Miss As claim for damage to furniture and laminate flooring, AXA did consider 
this and found no evidence of damage caused by the burglary. For a damaged stairway 
spindle which was included in the police report, AXA offered to pay for the replacement 
costs, but Miss A didnt reply. I dont think AXA acted unreasonably here. 
With all insurance claims, it is for the policyholder to prove their loss. Where Miss A hasbeen able to demonstrate ownership in terms of the high value jewellery by providing a
Statement of Truth from the jeweller along with receipts, AXA has settled her claim. It also 
met her claim for a damaged door and offered to pay for the costs to replace a damaged 
stairway spindle. But putting all of the information together in respect of the remaining items 
Miss A has claimed for, I cant say that AXAs decision not to settle is unreasonable. I dont 
think Miss A has provided enough to validate the rest of her claim.
I think AXA has treated Miss A fairly and as it would any other customer in the same 
position. So from the information it has, Im not asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman