DRN-3817033
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to issue her a replacement credit card, after 
her existing one was cancelled due to suspicious transactions.
What happened
Mrs B complained to HSBC about failings she thinks it made following her report of some 
unrecognised transactions on her credit card. Mrs B says HSBC failed to issue her with a 
replacement credit card after the original one was cancelled. She says she chased this up 
numerous times, yet she didnt receive a new card despite multiple assurances. 
Although the bank compensated Mrs B, she says this isnt enough because of the level of 
stress she experienced, and because her credit rating was affected. Mrs B is also unhappy 
that HSBC says it could no longer issue a replacement card because of its own error, and 
that she would have to make a new application.
In its response, HSBC decided to pay Mrs B £150 compensation and confirmed it was 
unable to issue a replacement credit card  so Mrs B would need to make a new application.
Remaining unhappy, Mrs B asked this service to get involved. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint and asked HSBC to replace Mrs Bs credit card on the same terms, without her 
needing to make a new application. The investigator also asked HSBC to remove adverse 
information recorded against Mrs B. 
Since the investigators view, theres been a fair amount of information exchange and 
recommendations between this service and HSBC. In summary:
HSBC remained adamant that it couldnt replace the credit card. It explained that 
Mrs B would need to make a new, credit-scored application that would be subject to 
the banks lending criteria. Although HSBC offered to remove the associated credit 
search, it couldnt guarantee that Mrs Bs application would be accepted. 
HSBC noted that Mrs Bs credit report wasnt negatively affected by any late 
payments and that there werent any charges Mrs B had to pay either.
Following discussions with our investigator, HSBC agreed to increase its 
compensation offer to £300. By this point, Mrs B decided she didnt want to continue 
as a customer of HSBC, so she didnt want to go through with a new application. 
Mrs B declined HSBCs offer, so the complaint was escalated so a final decision 
could be made. In the meantime, HSBC managed to find a way to re-issue a credit 
card to Mrs B, without her having to make a new application. The bank says it was 
able to do so on existing terms and says that Mrs Bs original credit agreement 
applies. Mrs B has told us that she has indeed received a new credit card.
The complaint remains unresolved, so its been passed to me for a final say on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of the original complaint issues have been resolved. So, although I wont comment on 
everything, the parties can be assured that Ive taken all submissions into account. Having 
done so, I agree that a total compensation payment of £300 is a fair way to settle this 
complaint  Ill explain why.
Although our investigator referenced multiple regulations as part of his investigation into the 
complaint, as much as these are relevant, I dont think its vital to revisit them. My powers 
allow me to decide what I think is fair and reasonable. So, as much as Ive kept any relevant 
rules in mind, my decision is based on what I think is fair.
It seems to me that HSBC couldnt issue a replacement credit card to Mrs B because of a 
failing on its part. HSBC admits it made an error, preventing the card from being replaced. 
And, until recently, the bank remained adamant that it couldnt provide Mrs B with a new 
card without a new application. This error was poor in my opinion  what seemed to be a 
simple card replacement ended up being a lengthy process for Mrs B and, despite numerous 
chasers and assurances, HSBC failed to issue the replacement. 
Moreover, HSBC seems to have spent almost a year holding its position on the matter  that 
it couldnt issue the replacement and that Mrs B would need to apply again. However, HSBC 
recently seems to have established a way to issue Mrs B with a replacement, without the 
need for a new application. Im pleased that this part of the complaint has been resolved. But 
it seems to me that the bank either failed to properly look into issuing the replacement 
without a new application, or simply was unaware that such a process existed within its 
banking practices. In my view, Mrs B had to pursue this matter unnecessarily for over a year, 
mainly because HSBC failed to apply this process. So I think the bank treated her unfairly 
because of this. 
HSBC caused Mrs B an excessive degree of inconvenience and stress because of this 
failing. Mrs B says she had to chase up the bank numerous times - I can see the multiple 
times she contacted HSBC via its chat service and by phone. Often Mrs B was reassured by 
HSBC that a replacement card would be issued. This turned out to be incorrect. And as I 
pointed out, this matter has been prolonged unnecessarily, when it seems HSBC had a way 
to issue a replacement credit card without the need for a new application. I dont think the 
£150 compensation HSBC paid to Mrs B goes far enough in putting things right, so Ill be 
asking the bank to increase its award. 
Mrs B says that HSBC advised her not to make some of her repayments and this led to late 
payments being recorded on her credit file. I havent seen anything that suggests HSBC 
gave Mrs B such advice, so I cant fairly say that this took place. Ive seen a copy of Mrs Bs 
credit file and it does seem to indicate that at least one late payment was recorded around 
the time and that the account has since been settled. Looking at Mrs Bs account 
statements, it looks like she hasnt had to pay additional charges because of any late 
payments. And Ive found no persuasive reason why Mrs B couldnt make a payment on time 
using the payment options available. Given Ive seen nothing that suggests HSBC advised 
Mrs B not to make a payment, Im not persuaded that the bank did something wrong here. For these reasons, my decision is that HSBC acted unfairly when it didnt issue a 
replacement credit to Mrs B in a timely manner. It was also unreasonable for HSBC to 
expect Mrs B to make a new application, when it turns out that it was able to issue a 
replacement credit card without the need for Mrs B to apply again. However, I dont find that 
HSBC advised Mrs B not to make a repayment and so I wont be asking it to remove any 
related late payment markers.
Putting things right
HSBC caused Mrs B unnecessary stress and inconvenience over a prolonged period. To put 
things right, HSBC should increase its compensation award to a total of £300. I understand 
that HSBC has already paid £150, so it only needs to pay the remaining amount.
Mrs B recently pointed out that a search for the replacement credit card appears on her 
credit file. Our investigator has raised this with HSBC and the bank is arranging to amend 
the entry. HSBC should inform Mrs B when it has carried this out.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman