DRN-3758715
The complaint
Mr H complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and their decision to 
decline his insurance claim. Mr H also complains about the length of time it took them to 
reach this decision.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr H took out a Parts & Garage Cover (PGC) insurance policy which was 
underwritten by AIC. This cover was designed to sit alongside a roadside assistance policy 
Mr H held with a breakdown company.
In early February 2022, Mr Hs car broke down. So, the breakdown company recovered Mr 
Hs car to an approved garage, who Ill refer to as G. And Mr H contacted AIC to make a 
claim on his PGC insurance policy. 
AIC spoke to G on 9 February, and it was agreed that AIC would arrange for an independent 
engineer, who Ill refer to as X to inspect the car and determine the required repairs. This 
inspection took place on 15 February, with Xs report being provided two days later. This 
report stated the fault to Mr Hs car was likely to have been present before he took out the 
insurance policy. So, AIC declined the claim on this basis. Mr H was unhappy about this, so 
he raised a complaint.
Mr H didnt think AICs decision to decline the claim was fair. He explained the car had 
recently passed its MOT and so, he didnt think it was reasonable to say the fault had been 
present for some time. Because of this, he wanted AIC to accept the claim and cover the 
costs of the repair. Mr H also complained about the length of time it took AIC to arrange the 
inspection, as he was without transport during this time. So, he wanted to be compensated 
for this.
AIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had declined the 
claim fairly, within the terms and conditions of the policy Mr H held. And they thought theyd 
followed their usual process when doing so. Because of this, they didnt think they needed to 
do anything more. Mr H remained unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They appreciated Mr Hs 
comments regarding the cars recent MOT. But as the fault wasnt found until the car was 
stripped, they didnt think an MOT wouldve highlighted the issue. And they thought AIC were 
fair to rely on Xs report when declining the claim. Our investigator also thought the claim 
was processed and declined within a reasonable amount of time. So, they didnt think AIC 
needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He maintained his belief that AIC had unfairly delayed the inspection and 
he reaffirmed his belief that he should be compensated for this. Our investigators view 
remained the same and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I recognise he wouldve 
taken out the insurance policy to help assist him with the financial costs associated to a 
breakdown such as the one he suffered in February 2022. So, when he discovered his claim 
had been declined, I can understand the upset and frustration this wouldve caused. I can 
also understand how this wouldve been made worse when he was told this was due to the 
fault being a pre-existing issue, which he feels contradicts the fact the car passed its MOT 
with no issues being detected. So, I can recognise why he feels AIC should cover the costs 
of the repairs.
But for me to say AIC should cover the costs of the repairs to rectify the fault, Id first need to 
be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that they failed to act 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claim. Or, if I think they 
did act within these, that it was unfair for them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr H held. These explain under the general 
exclusions heading that the policy wont cover the costs for repairs if the faults existed prior 
to the purchase of this cover.
And Ive seen that in Xs report, they state Based on the inception date and mileage
we would conclude that the oil contamination was of longstanding nature and would have 
been at least developing at the time of policy inception.. So, I think X made it clear they 
believed the fault to Mr Hs car was present prior to the purchase of the policy. And I think 
AIC were fair to rely on this opinion, as X is the expert who attended to and inspected the 
car. Because of this, I think AIC acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining it, as the claim circumstances fell under a general exclusion within the policy.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether AIC acted fairly when doing so. 
Mr H doesnt think they were, as he believes the car passed its MOT and so, this shouldve 
been considered as part of the claim decision. I recognise why Mr H would feel this way and 
I think its natural to expect a car to be in good working order if it passes its MOT. But 
crucially, I dont think an MOT is likely to have noticed the fault present in Mr Hs car, as this 
was only found after the car had been stripped following the breakdown. And a car isnt 
stripped to this extent in an MOT. Because of this, I think AIC acted fairly when deciding to 
decline the claim and I dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of the 
complaint.
Ive then turned to Mr Hs complaint regarding the time it took AIC to reach this decision. Mr 
H doesnt think it was fair for AIC to take nearly two weeks to reach this decision, when he 
was left without transport during this time. And Mr H thinks AIC created unnecessary delays, 
including X attending the wrong garage. But I dont agree.
I can see AIC spoke to G on 9 February, where it was agreed an inspection would need to 
be arranged. This inspection was booked in by 11 February, two working days later. I dont 
think this is an unreasonable amount of time.From what I can tell, the inspection was arranged for 14 February, the next working day after 
the weekend. Again, I dont think this was unreasonable and I dont think AIC can be held 
responsible for the fact the claim ran over a weekend.
From the claim notes, it does appear as though X attended the wrong garage on the 14 
February. But I can see AIC provided the correct address details, so I dont think this is 
something AIC were at fault for. But even so, I can see the inspection then took place the 
next day, so the claim was delayed at most by one working day. And following the 
inspection, the report was received and claim decision provided by 17 February. So, in total, 
AIC arranged for Mr Hs car to be inspected, Xs report received, and the decision 
communicated to Mr H within seven working days and I think this is a reasonable time frame. 
So, I dont agree that AIC delayed Mr Hs claim unnecessarily, or that they should 
compensate Mr H for the fact he was without a car during this time. So, I dont think they 
need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I appreciate it wouldve been 
inconvenient to be without his car for a period of time. But Im only able to direct AIC to 
compensate Mr H for this inconvenience if it was their error that led to, or added to, this 
inconvenience and in this situation, I dont think it was.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman