DRN-4115536
The complaint
Miss H complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) irresponsibly granted her a 
hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In November 2017, Miss H acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from  
Oodle. Miss H was required to make an initial payment of £211.68 followed by 58 monthly 
repayments of £161.88. After that there was a final optional payment of £211.88 if she 
wanted to own the car at the end. The total repayable under the agreement was £9,812.80.
Miss H says that Oodle didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable to her as she had a poor financial history. 
Oodle didnt agree. It said it carried out a thorough assessment which included carrying out 
checks with credit reference agencies and obtaining statistical financial information before 
granting her the credit. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Oodle didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss H didnt agree and said she had been on maternity leave at the time and had an 
existing car loan that wasnt paid off. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oodle will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Oodle asked Miss H about her occupation and income. She said she had an annual income 
of £20,400 and was in full time employment. Oodle also says it and checked with a credit 
reference agency. But it didnt verify Miss Hs income before approving the finance  for 
instance, by asking her to provide some copy payslips. Given the overall size of the 
borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would have 
been proportionate for Oodle to have done so to ensure it was affordable. 
Oodle says it also relied on national statistics data to help it to calculate if the finance was 
affordable. The regulator has said firms can estimate expenditure unless it knows or there 
are indicators to suggest an estimate is unlikely to be accurate. The credit check Oodle 
completed showed Miss H had defaulted on some credit in the past year. She also still had a 
previous car finance agreement still in place, although this appears to have been only a few 
months from being paid off given the balance shown. Ive seen that Miss H had also been 
taking out several short term credit loans in the previous two years. So I think, taken together 
with the fact that Miss H was planning to borrow a relatively large sum payable over a five 
year period, there was a real risk that Miss H might be struggling financially at the point of or 
soon after taking out the finance. In those circumstances I think it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate for Oodle to have done more to understand Miss Hs specific 
financial circumstances, rather than relying on a statistical estimate.  
Ive considered what Oodle would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Miss H to provide us with evidence of her 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. She has told us about her 
income in 2017 and early 2018. I can see that prior to taking out the lending she was earning 
around £1,300 per month in net pay. Miss H says that she was on maternity leave and Oodle 
ought to have been aware of this. But I cant see how Oodle would have known about this at 
the time unless Miss H had told Oodle about it. I say this having also noted what Miss H has 
told us about her level of maternity pay being calculated at a higher level due to her having 
previously earnt overtime pay, prior to going on maternity leave. That meant her level of 
income may have appeared to be broadly in line with what her regular income would have 
been. Ive also seen that Miss H sent Oodle some copy bank statements that post-date the 
agreement. But I think they are of limited value in to help with understanding Miss Hs 
financial situation before she applied for the agreement. 
It follows that I dont think Miss H has been able to demonstrate that the agreement was 
unaffordable. So I cant reasonably conclude that Oodle ought to have known she would 
struggle to make the repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Oodle acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
Finally, Miss H has told us that her mental health was not good at the time and that there 
were other factors and personal circumstances that were having an impact on her 
well-being. I am very sorry to hear about that. But unless these issues were made known to 
Oodle at the time so they could be taken into account when looking at her application, I dont 
consider they are something I can take into consideration when looking into whether the 
agreement was likely to be affordable to Miss H.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman