DRN-3436400
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 
Money, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H was approved for one loan with Madison in August 2020 which was for £2,000 
repayable over 24 months at £117.66 a month. The first scheduled payment was 
1 September 2020.
Mr H complained through his representative in March 2021 and received Madisons final 
response letter dated 20 May 2021. It did not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
One of our adjudicators first looked at the complaint and thought that Madison had done 
something wrong and that it should have put things right for Mr H. Later our adjudicator 
reconsidered the complaint and did not think that Madison had done anything incorrect. 
Mr H has requested that an ombudsman reviews the complaint. The unresolved complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr H  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr H. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
othe lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
othe higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
othe greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Mr Hs representative has articulated his complaint as irresponsible lending which is how 
I have approached it. But reading Mr Hs complaint form for background, this is what he said:
The loans were very easy to obtain, I would borrow from one lender to pay off 
another, I soon became dependant on the loans and all my wages were used to 
cover loan repayments, this led to me being short of funds and I would take further 
loans to bridge the gap between pay dates.
I consider this to be a complaint about the lending market in general rather than specifically 
against Madison. And I say this because he took one loan with Madison and so his reference 
to multiple loans and loan repayments must relate to the multiple lenders he had borrowed 
from and not necessarily Madison. But it gives the impression he had multiple loans at the 
same time as the one from Madison. And I do not think that was the case. 
Further information Madison obtained before lending was from Mr Hs credit search report 
that it has forwarded to us. Its clear from that set of results that Mr H entered a DRO (Debt 
Relief Order) which ended in April 2019 and they usually last 12 months. And so, reviewing 
the results its clear that nearly all the older credit accounts ended in April 2018 when he 
likely entered the DRO one year before, or the account end dates are in April 2019 one year 
after entering into that DRO. The significance of that DRO is that all his debts appear to have 
been cleared following the end of that DRO in April 2019. So there would have been no 
money owing on these older debts.
As Mr H applied for the Madison loan in August 2020, almost 14 months later, then I do not 
think that Madison needed to be too concerned with the closed accounts. I am fully aware 
that Mr Hs credit history was of importance and Madison obtained that. But as most of the 
accounts had closed, and Mr Hs current situation at the time of lending was relatively good, 
then I do not consider that Madison needed to look into Mr Hs finances more than it did. 
At the time Mr H applied for this loan his outstanding credit was very low. Here is a duplicate 
of the summary on the credit report Madison had at the time:Indebtedness Indicators
Total Balances (All): £ 512
Total Balances (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 512
Total Limits (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 950
Balance to Limit Ratio (Revolving Credit/Budget): 53 %
Mr H had opened two accounts in the previous six months. There was a record of one 
County Court Judgment (CCJ) which was dated April 2018 - just before the DRO was 
entered. It was for a modest sum of £394.
Accounts and credit accounts opened since April 2019 had been well run and had no issues 
in relation to any late payments. And so, it seems to me that Madison looked at the overall 
picture and approved Mr H for the one loan over 24 months repayable at £117.66 each 
month. It had information about Mr Hs income (£2,275) and his general expenditure (total 
was £1,009) and calculated that Mr H could afford the loan.
Mr H has had two different letters of opinion and the first one said  that the credit checks had 
revealed some matters of concern which Madison ought to have considered before lending. 
Our adjudicator said:
The results of the checks showed some concerning information in relation to his 
recent financial history. The credit report you obtained at the time showed that the 
consumer had an active Judgement against him and had six defaulted accounts.
However, I think that upon reviewing the whole complaint myself, I can see why the 
adjudicator may have thought that. But my view is that following Mr Hs successful DRO, 
which relegated all that (apart from the CCJ) to history, then I think that Madisons approach 
was correct, proportionate and it interpreted the results in the way I would. Which is that after 
April 2019, Mr Hs record was good and the credit level very low. And so, I do not consider 
that Madison was irresponsible when it lent to Mr H in August 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman