DRN-3736223
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way in which The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) handled the transfer of his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits into a 
personal pension. He says, following an administrative error from the employer, the 
transferred amount was lower than had been expected. 
He says Prudential delayed in making him aware of this reduced value and didnt issue a 
suitability report following the transfer to support its original recommendation. He says he 
wouldnt have transferred if hed been aware of the lower figure and the delay meant he 
didnt have the chance to return the money to the employer and cancel the arrangement. 
What happened
Mr A had been a member of his employers OPS. In February 2020 he met with Prudential 
and followed its recommendation to transfer the OPS benefits into a personal pension style 
retirement account. The transfer report that was issued to Mr A noted the total transfer 
value was £751,359.69.
However, when the transfer took place on 5 May 2020 only £633,328.28 was received by 
Prudential. The money was still invested around one week later, but Mr A says he wasnt 
issued with a new suitability report to confirm that the recommendation remained in his best 
interests. 
In May 2020 Prudential contacted Mr As employer to query the lower amount that was 
transferred. But because the employer said it would need some time to investigate the issue 
Mr A was paid his tax free cash lump sum (TFC)  which was around £30,000 less than he 
expected. This was confirmed in a letter from Prudential dated 23 June 2020. 
The employer subsequently accepted that it had made an administrative error in combining 
the value of Mr As Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVCs) and the money purchase 
underpin within the account total. It said the value of the AVCs was actually only £10,791.22 
which was significantly different to the transfer value it had quoted.
It said the value of the AVCs, in addition to the main fund benefit, was the correct amount 
that should have been (and was) transferred. It asked Mr A to check if the Prudential adviser 
would still have given the same advice if the correct figure had been known, to decide what 
corrective action it could take. 
Prudential subsequently confirmed its recommendation and issued a new report and 
illustration. 
But Mr A complained about the events that had taken place. He said when the lower amount 
was transferred to Prudential, he contacted it to query the figure but was told more funds 
might follow. But he says he heard nothing further until August 2020 when the lower transfer 
value was confirmed as being correct and a new suitability report was issued. He said 
Prudential should have queried the lower amount when it was received from the employer 
and provided an updated suitability report so that he could have decided on the right course 
of action.
 
Mr A says that subsequent conversations with other advisers have suggested that he might 
have been disadvantaged by continuing with the transfer and that it shouldnt have occurred 
without an updated report.
Mr A says he now only has the option of joining the employers stakeholder pension  which 
isnt as good as the defined benefit scheme he belonged to. His employer says it cant 
reinstate him back into the original scheme.
Prudential didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It made the following points:
It received the lower transferred amount from the employer on 5 May and invested 
those funds on 15 May 2020. Its adviser contacted the employer around 10 days 
later to question the figures but was told an investigation into the problem could take 
up to 50 days. The employer wasnt able to discount that further funds might be paid 
in respect of the transfer. 
Because of the length of time the investigation might take, Prudential decided to pay 
Mr A his TFC  something it wouldnt usually have done.
It complained to the employer in July 2020 about the time taken to provide a 
response and eventually received a letter in August 2020 in which the employer 
admitted its administrative error. 
Its adviser had no way of knowing the error had been made in May 2020  so it didnt 
think it had done anything wrong. 
It confirmed its original advice was still suitable and explained the extent of the error 
made by the employer when it wrote to Mr A in August 2020. This information was 
also conveyed in a video meeting with Mr A on 26 August 2020. 
But Mr A wasnt satisfied, and he brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into the matter. They said the complaint should be upheld making the following points 
in support of their assessment:
They didnt think Mr A was complaining about the suitability of the advice to transfer 
his OPS benefits. The consideration here was the possible delay by Prudential in 
querying the lower transfer value which only seemed to have occurred after Mr A had 
raised an enquiry.
They thought Mr A would still have gone ahead with the transfer if hed known about 
the error sooner because his main objective was to clear his debts using the TFC. 
But they couldnt ignore that Prudential should have made Mr A aware of the lower 
transfer value much earlier so that he could have considered his options. They also 
thought Prudential should also have provided a revised suitability report to confirm 
the suitability of its advice.
They thought appropriate compensation for Prudential to pay Mr A for the loss of 
expectation and inconvenience caused was £600. 
Prudential accepted the investigators findings, but Mr A didnt agree with the outcome. 
He said he thought this was Prudentials error and therefore expected it to pay him the 
difference between the transfer values. 
He said his complaint was about Prudentials lack of advice in confirming the transfer was 
still suitable when the lower amount had been transferred. He said if it had produced a report 
at that time and not three months later it may have been possible to return the money to the 
employer and cancel the transfer. Mr A confirmed he had complained to the employer about 
the administrative error it had made.
 Subsequently Mr A said hed received letters from Prudential and the scheme provider who 
were blaming each other. He said he wouldnt have drawn down his funds if hed known 
about the difference in values. He said he wanted his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said Mr As complaint should be upheld but only in respect of 
compensation for the impact of the delay in Prudential providing an updated suitability report. 
I made the following points in support of my findings:
It was clear that the higher transfer value quoted was an administrative error from 
Mr As employer. The figure that was actually paid to Prudential was correct and 
represented the transfer value Mr A should have received.
So I didnt think Mr A was entitled to the higher amount as that would put him in a 
better position than he ought now to be in. 
But I did think Prudential should have confirmed the suitability of the transfer soon 
after it received the lower transfer amount. I thought the delay in providing the report 
raised Mr As expectations and didnt give him the opportunity to reconsider the 
advice before the transfer completed  and could be revoked.  
I thought the investigators recommendation of £600 compensation for the impact of 
the delay of the report was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  But I didnt 
include compensation for the administrative error which I thought was made by 
Mr As employer. 
I thought about what Mr A might have done if hed know about the correct valuation 
earlier. But as I didnt think he could have cancelled the transfer or returned the 
funds, I didnt believe a revised suitability report would have made any difference to 
his actions. 
That outcome was based on the premise that Mr A didnt have any concerns about 
the suitability of the advice to transfer  which I said he should confirm in his 
response to the provisional decision. 
I also thought that as Prudentials recommendation was for Mr A to release as much 
cash as possible tax efficiently, then it was more likely than not Mr A would have 
gone ahead with the transfer regardless  as that appeared to be the main driver for 
the transfer. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Prudential had previously accepted the investigators assessment and recommended amount 
of compensation  so made no further response to my provisional decision. 
Mr A also made no response to my provisional decision about this existing complaint, and 
provided no further submissions. But he said that, having read the report carefully, he would 
like a separate investigation to be undertaken into the original advice given to him to transfer 
his OPS benefits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings  so Ill set out 
my reasons below. But I should first make it clear that, as Mr A has subsequently raised the question of the 
suitability of the original advice to transfer his DB benefits, weve set that up as a new 
complaint and the matter will be investigated separately. What Im considering here is the 
question of Prudentials delay in making Mr A aware of the reduced transfer value and the 
delay in issuing him with a revised suitability report.
The transfer value error
Mr As OPS transfer value consisted of the cash equivalent value of his defined benefits, as 
well as a separate account for his AVCs. However, the initial transfer value that Mr As 
employer sent to Prudential included an additional £118,813.41 which was in fact an 
underpin of the defined benefit equivalent and had already been included in that figure. Im 
satisfied that, having looked at all the documentation involved, this was an administrative 
error from Mr As employer. 
The letter the employer sent to Prudential in August 2020 explained what had happened and 
confirmed the transfer value should have been £633,328.28. Im satisfied the additional 
funds were simply the result of including the underpin figure twice, so I think the amount 
that Prudential subsequently received was correct and Im satisfied this was the value that 
Mr A was due. It wouldnt be fair to recommend that he should receive the higher value as 
that would put him into a better position than he should have been in.
But Mr A has complained that when Prudential became aware of the error it had a duty to tell 
him straight away and also to provide him with an updated suitability report  confirming that 
the advice to transfer was still in his best interests. So I have looked at Prudentials actions 
from when it became aware that the transfer value might have been incorrect.  
The delay in issuing an updated suitability report
Prudential issued its first suitability report on 25 February 2020. The report concluded that a 
transfer was in Mr As best interest. However, on 5 May 2020, Prudential received a 
significantly lower amount in respect of the transfer than what it had expected. Prudential did 
question this with the employer  whose response wasnt entirely clear and led to Prudential 
to believe further funds might still be provided. It was three months later before Prudential 
was able to issue revised illustrations and a suitability report. Prudential said that during that 
time it paid Mr A his TFC so that he wasnt disadvantaged  which wasnt its usual approach. 
Mr A says that Prudential needed to make him aware of the lower transfer value straight 
away  along with a revised report  so that he could consider if the transfer was still in his 
best interests. He says he could have reversed the transfer if hed known about the problem 
with the value immediately.
I dont think it would have been possible for Mr A to reverse the transfer in this case as 
defined benefit transfers dont usually offer cancellation rights  although the trustees might 
have reconsidered their position on that matter due to the administrative error they made. 
But I dont think Prudential was in a position to affect that. 
However, I still think Mr A needed to be made aware of what had happened at the earliest 
opportunity, regardless of the investigation the OPS trustees said they would conduct, and I 
think he ought to have been made aware of how the reduced transfer value might have 
affected the overall recommendation to transfer sooner.
So, Ive considered the impact this had on Mr A  which I think was significant. I think
he would have been concerned for those three months that the transfer might not still
be in his best interests, which I think would have caused him some distrust and worry. I notethe investigator recommended that Prudential should pay Mr A £600 for this impact which 
Prudential said it was prepared to pay. In the circumstances I think this is probably a fair and
reasonable amount to compensate for the delay in issuing a revised suitability report  with
the consequences that had. But its clear that the actual administrative error was made by
the employer, so I havent included an award for the impact caused by that error alone. 
What would Mr A have done with an earlier revised suitability report
As Ive said above Mr A would now like the overall suitability of the advice to transfer to be 
investigated separately  so I havent considered any aspect of the suitability here. But, as 
suggested in my provisional decision, it is important to consider what action Mr A might have 
taken differently if hed been provided with a suitability report in a more timely manner after 
the lower transfer value was paid.
Ive considered that matter carefully and Ive concluded that Mr A would still have gone 
ahead with the transfer. I say that because I think Mr A was always likely to have followed 
Prudentials recommendation throughout the process, after all he accepted the original 
recommendation. The revised suitability report that Prudential issued confirmed its original 
recommendation as it said, please note that the initial advice to transfer has not been 
affected by this change in value, and that the retirement modelling that has been re-done 
illustrates that there remains minimal shortfall risk in achieving our retirement plans as 
original noted. 
So, regardless of any separate investigation into the suitability of the advice, Prudential said 
in its addendum report that its advice was still to have transferred the lower value. I see no 
reason why Mr A wouldnt have taken that advice and concluded that the transfer was still in 
his best interests.  So I dont think him not being made aware of the reduced transfer value 
quicker, or being provided with an updated suitability report as soon as the amount was 
transferred, would have changed his actions. I think he would, on balance, still have decided 
to go ahead with the positive recommendation Prudential set out in the revised report.
Putting things right
Prudential should pay Mr A £600 for the trouble and upset caused by the delay in making 
him aware of the lower transfer value and issuing a revised suitability report and 
recommendation.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold in part Mr As complaint against The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited. Prudential should pay the amount set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Keith LawrenceOmbudsman