DRN-4328794
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has administered his account. 
What happened
Mr C has a current account with Barclays and has explained that payments have been held 
for additional checks without good reason. In addition, Mr Cs told us that a claim he made to 
try and recover a payment that was made as part of a scam wasnt successful. 
In April 2022 Mr Cs account was charged for two card payments of £372.72 for tickets. Mr C 
has explained that he fell victim to a scam as he wanted to buy two tickets at £84 each. 
Barclays went on to refund £372.72 on 21 April 2022 as it accepted one of the payments had 
been taken in error. But Barclays didnt make a further refund to Mr C. 
In September 2022 Barclays stopped a £5,000 payment Mr C tried to make for dental work 
abroad. Barclays spoke with Mr C about the payment he intended to make but wasnt 
satisfied it was genuine. As a result, Mr C asked Barclays to transfer the funds to an account 
he holds with another bank with a view to making the payment from there. 
On 6 January 2023 Mr C attempted to make a payment of £1,300 to his partner to purchase 
a mobile phone. But Mr Cs payment was picked up by Barclays fraud prevention systems 
and held for further checks. Mr C discussed the payment with Barclays Fraud Team. But the 
Fraud Team wasnt willing to release the payment and directed Mr C to his local branch. Mr 
C visited on the same day and provided further details about the payment he was trying to 
make. Branch staff ultimately werent satisfied the payment Mr C tried to make was genuine 
and Barclays says it called the Police in line with banking protocols to discuss it further. 
Police officers attended the branch and spoke to Mr C who later cancelled the payment 
request. Mr C then asked Barclays to transfer the funds to his account with the other bank. 
On 19 January 2023 Mr C tried to make a payment for £200 but it was blocked by Barclays. 
When Barclays called Mr C to check the transaction was genuine he didnt answer the 
security questions used to identify customers. Barclays didnt release the payment. 
Mr C complained about the way Barclays had referred payments for additional checks. Mr C 
said he thought there was a marker or note on his account that was causing payments to be 
picked up unnecessarily. Barclays issued a final response on 22 February 2023 and 
apologised for delays when dealing with his complaint. But Barclays confirmed that each of 
the payments held had been picked up by its systems for further checks. Barclays said there 
was no marker on his account that was causing payments to be blocked and that 
transactions were only held when there was a genuine concern about fraud. 
Barclays final response added that the Police were contacted due to genuine concerns Mr C 
was being scammed and didnt agree it had acted unfairly by contacting them. 
Barclays issued a follow up response on 8 March 2023. Barclays apologised for the 
inconvenience caused and recognised Mr C had informed it about mental health difficulties. 
Barclays gave information about support it and external sources could provide but didnt take 
any further action in terms of his complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint and upheld it in part. Whilst the 
investigator wasnt persuaded it was unfair for Barclays to place holds on payments its 
systems identified as being at risk of fraud, they thought asking the Police to attend the 
branch to speak with Mr C was heavy handed. The investigator asked Barclays to pay Mr C 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Barclays agreed, but Mr C asked to appeal. 
Mr C said Barclays had failed to provide the full refund following his attempt to purchase 
tickets in April 2022. Mr C also said he thinks Barclays has marked his account as 
suspicious and made it inoperable. Mr C explained the issues raised have had a significant 
impact on his mental health conditions and that he didnt think the compensation agreed of 
£200 was fair. As Mr C asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Mr Cs told us that when Barclays looked at his dispute in April 2022 it failed to deal with it 
fairly. Mr Cs told us it took Barclays several weeks to review his dispute. But I can see that 
Mr C made two payments of £372.72 on 4 April 2022 and one of those payments was 
refunded on 21 April 2023. Barclays has confirmed it wasnt able to refund the other 
payment. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I havent been persuaded there were undue 
delays in dealing with his payment dispute. And Im satisfied Barclays took reasonable action 
when one of the two payments Mr C disputed was refunded. I havent been persuaded that 
Barclays acted unfairly. 
I can see there is a history of payments being held for further checks by Barclays. In 
response to the investigator, Mr Cs told us he believes Barclays has marked his account as 
suspicious which is causing genuine payments to be held for unnecessary checks. But 
Barclays has confirmed that no marker or notation of that nature has been applied to Mr Cs 
account or profile. And I havent seen anything that shows Barclays has a marker of that 
nature in the information Ive seen. Barclays says that payments Mr C tried to make were 
genuinely picked up by its fraud prevention systems as they appeared suspicious and out of 
character. Ive looked at whether Barclays claim is reasonable. 
Barclays stopped a payment of £5,000 Mr C tried to make for dental treatment abroad. Mr 
Cs told us this was a genuine payment. But Barclays has pointed out it was an unusual 
transaction in terms of Mr Cs account history and represented the vast majority of the funds 
held in his account. And when Barclays asked Mr C about the payment, the responses he 
gave contained details that often feature in cases of fraud and scams. Whilst I understand 
Mr C was satisfied the payment was genuine, I havent been persuaded it was unreasonable 
for Barclays to hold the payment for further checks. Ive reviewed Barclays contact notes 
from when it discussed the payment with Mr C and Im satisfied it had reasonable grounds to decline to proceed. Ultimately, as Barclays wasnt convinced the payment was genuine, Im 
satisfied it acted reasonably to protect Mr Cs funds. Ive looked at the relevant account 
terms and conditions and they allow Barclays to take the step of declining to make a 
payment for that reason. 
I think its fair to add that Barclays did approve a transfer from Mr Cs account to his other 
bank account elsewhere. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I havent seen anything that shows 
Barclays acted unfairly or made a mistake. 
Barclays stopped another payment on 6 January 2023. Mr Cs explained he was sending 
£1,300 to his partner to purchase a phone. Mr C spoke with the Fraud Team and explained 
why he was sending the money to someone else to make a purchase on his behalf. But 
Barclays felt the circumstances of the payment were suspicious and raised concerns about 
the risk of fraud. Ultimately, Barclays wasnt willing to proceed due its concerns that Mr C 
was being scammed. Again, Im satisfied that was a decision Barclays was free to make, in 
line with the account terms. 
Barclays says it followed banking protocol by contacting the Police when Mr C confirmed he 
still wanted to proceed with the payment. Barclays says it wanted the Police to discuss the 
transaction with Mr C and provide further guidance on the risks of scams. I appreciate Mr C 
found the involvement of the Police to be distressing, especially as he was in branch at the 
time. But Im satisfied Barclays was seeking to try and offer further protection against the risk 
of fraud. I agree with the investigator Mr Cs branch visit couldve been handled more 
sensitively. And I can understand why Mr C was upset by what happened. In my view the 
payment of £200 recommended by the investigator fairly reflects the way Mr Cs branch visit 
was handled and the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
On 19 January 2023 a payment for £200 was blocked and later cancelled when security 
questions werent answered. I appreciate Mr Cs view that the timing of the account blocks 
made him feel as Barclays was targeting him directly. But Barclays has provided systems 
evidence that confirms the payment was identified by its system as suspicious and held for 
further checks before being made. In the circumstances, I wouldnt have expected Barclays 
to have released the payment without carrying out further checks with Mr C. But the contact 
notes show that Mr C declined to complete the verification questions Barclays asked so the 
payment wasnt approved. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Barclays approach is in line with 
the account terms and conditions and Im satisfied it was seeking to protect him from the risk 
of fraud. 
I havent seen anything that shows Barclays was targeting Mr C specifically and Im satisfied 
that each of the payments that were referred to the Fraud Team were highlighted as 
potential scams. 
Mr C has told both Barclays and this service about his mental health issues as well as other 
health concerns he suffers with. I can see that Barclays has recorded that Mr Cs health 
conditions and provided details of support it and other organisations can provide in its final 
response. I also note Barclays offered to carry out a video interview on 6 January 2023. In 
my view, that shows Barclays is willing to make adjustments for Mr C should he request 
them. And whilst I understand that the way payments have been held has caused Mr C a 
substantial level of frustration and concern, I think the award of £200 reflects that and is a 
fair way to resolve his complaint. 
As Im satisfied Barclays has agreed to pay a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances Im not telling it to do anything else. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Barclays Bank IK PLC to settle by 
paying him £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman