DRN-2410049
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out over the phone by Mr and Mrs M in 2004 
when they were arranging a mortgage. The PPI protected Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
repayments in the event they couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
view. 
Mr and Mrs M mainly complain that PPI wasnt ever discussed with them during the phone 
call when they were arranging their new mortgage and they werent asked about having PPI. 
They also told us that the way the policy benefits were shared between them isnt what they 
wouldve wanted  and that they had alternative ways they couldve paid the mortgage so 
PPI wasnt needed.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres only limited information now available from the point of sale. Nationwide doesnt 
have a call recording  but thats not surprising given that this happened so long ago. And it 
isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to remember precisely what was 
discussed at the time. This means that what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold their mis-sale complaint. And Mr M has said his main focus was getting the 
mortgage  so its completely understandable that he couldve forgotten what else was 
discussed during the call. 
So I dont know exactly what was said during the phone call when Mr and Mrs M arranged 
their mortgage and the PPI. 
I must take into account all the information Ive got and the wider circumstances when 
deciding what I think is most likely.
Nationwide has explained that its sales process involved taking Mr and Mrs M through their 
mortgage application over the phone and recording their answers and the information they 
provided. The completed mortgage application was then sent to Mr and Mrs M for them to 
check over and sign.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application prepared by Nationwide Building 
Society.
In the section headed Mortgage Payment Protection Requirements it says: We strongly 
recommend that you protect your monthly payments against accident, sickness and 
unemployment .
So I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve understood that having PPI was a matter of choice.
And on this part of the form, where it says: We would like the following protection for our 
mortgage payments against accident, sickness and unemployment . Mr and Mrs Ms 
details are completed. 
It shows they both took out cover and shared the policy benefits 50:50.
I appreciate that this form was completed for Mr and Mrs M by Nationwide. But it seems 
likely to me that it reflected information Mr and Mrs M had provided to Nationwide during the 
phone call. If the information on their mortgage application wasnt correct or it didnt properly 
reflect their wishes at the time, then Mr and Mrs M couldve taken this up with Nationwide at 
the time. I've seen nothing to make me think they did that. Mr and Mrs M signed the 
completed mortgage application which included a declaration that the information was 
accurate and Nationwide could rely on it.
Policy information was also confirmed in other paperwork sent to them and in the mortgage 
offer Nationwide issued to Mr and Mrs M. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment. Mr and Mrs Ms home couldve been at 
risk if the mortgage monthly repayments werent made in full and on time. I think its likely 
that protecting their mortgage repayments in the event of unexpected accident, sickness or 
unemployment wouldve been an important consideration for Mr and Mrs M at the time. And 
looking at what theyve told us about their financial situation at the time, I think they couldve 
found the policy useful if theyd needed to claim. 
The policy was offered free of charge to Mr and Mrs M for the first 12months so it cost them 
nothing for a year. 
On balance, although I can completely understand why theyve forgotten this now, I think its 
more likely that they decided when they took out this mortgage that they wanted to have the 
benefits the policy offered them and they chose to take the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M told us no checks were carried out to see if the policy was suitable for them. 
But Ive seen nothing to make me think that Nationwide personally recommended PPI to 
Mr and Mrs M. I think its likely that Nationwide presented information about PPI - but it didnt 
advise Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy. So Nationwide wasnt required to check if the 
policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M - it was up to Mr and Mrs M to decide if they wanted to 
take advantage of the benefits that PPI could offer. But Nationwide still had to tell them enough about the policy for them to be able to decide if 
they wanted to buy it. And if this didn't happen, then I have to think about whether this made 
any overall difference to Mr and Mrs M.
Overall, I think Nationwide probably did give them enough clear information - and where it 
mightnt have done, better information wouldnt have made a difference. 
I've thought carefully about what Mr M has said about sharing the policy benefits and that 
this isnt what they wouldve wanted as his salary alone covered the mortgage monthly 
repayments. But given that both Mr and Mrs M were in paid employment at the time I can 
see why they mightve wanted the policy benefits to cover them both. And given that the 
equal split is recorded in the paperwork that they signed in order to set up this PPI it seems 
likely this reflected their wishes at the time. 
Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ms work benefits, it looks like Mr and Mrs M couldve 
benefitted from having this cover. The policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim 
 so it wouldve paid Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage repayments for significantly longer than they 
wouldve received sick pay from their employer. And the policy paid out in addition to sick 
pay from work, providing a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if they mightve faced 
extra costs as a result of one (or both) of them being ill or disabled. 
And PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months if Mr and Mrs M had become 
involuntarily unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs M long term protection over the term of the 
mortgage.
I've taken into account what Mr and Mrs M told us about permanent health insurance set up 
for Mr M. But this provided a different sort of cover  it paid £125 per week after 26 weeks 
continuous incapacity and provided financial help in the event of long term incapacity. The 
PPI benefit became available after 60 days and was intended to cover short-term, temporary 
absence from work. PPI covered the mortgage monthly repayments in the event that 
Mr and Mrs M couldnt work - not just for health reasons but including if they found 
themselves unexpectedly out of work. So despite that theyve told me about this insurance, 
I still think PPI offered them useful and worthwhile benefits.  
Mr and Mrs M havent mentioned any significant other means they could rely on if theyd 
needed to make a claim. 
Looking at what Mr and Mrs M have told us about their circumstances when they took out 
their mortgage, I think they couldve had a use for the policy if theyd needed to claim. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. 
Its possible that some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if that 
affected Mr and Mrs M. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions 
and limitations wouldve made any difference to Mr and Mrs Ms decision to take out PPI.
Mr and Mrs M appear to have wanted the policy benefits, knowing what their financial 
circumstances were at the time, as they chose to keep the policy running after the end of the 
12 months free period. 
So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs M wouldve made a different decision if better information 
had been provided. I think they still wouldve decided to take out the policy even if theyd been better informed as it offered Mr and Mrs M valuable protection in their particular 
situation. 
On balance, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M said in response to the adjudicators view. For 
the reasons Ive set out, these points dont change my decision.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman