DRN-1329800
The complaint
Mr U complains that Metro Bank Plc has recorded a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Mr U opened accounts with Metro Bank in January 2018. He received a credit of £6,840 on 
22 January 2018. This money was all paid away that day with part in cash withdrawals and 
part by sending faster payments. Metro Bank received a report that this money had been 
obtained fraudulently. It says Mr U wasnt able to show these funds were legitimately his. It 
closed his accounts and registered a CIFAS marker. Mr U complained and said that he didnt 
know the money was fraudulent.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the bar for 
registering a marker at CIFAS was a high one. Here Mr U had told him that he had agreed to 
receive about £600 for a friend who didnt have an account from that friends Uncle. But he 
said he instead received a higher amount by mistake and needed to return it. Mr U accepted 
he made the payments from the account and was allowed to keep £300 for himself. There 
was no evidence to support his version of events. Mr U had quickly paid the money away 
saying that he had made the faster payments in smaller amounts, so these were less likely 
to be flagged. He had received a payment disproportionate to what he said he had done. 
And at the time he still had an account with a different financial business.
Mr U didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the CIFAS marker 
is causing issues for him. He was doing a favour for a friend he knew and the money he was 
paid wasnt a significant amount for that person.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Metro Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
The evidence indicates that Mr U opened his accounts at Metro Bank to receive these funds. 
He opened a current account on 17 January 2018 and a savings account on 19 January 
2018. He still had an account elsewhere. This payment was received to the savings account 
at 14:06 on 22 January 2018 and was all transferred to the current account at 15:12. 
The money was quickly paid away. Mr U accepts he took out £300 in cash at 16:00. He then 
had made some online transfers to a new payee of £1,900 by 16:09. He took out £2,000 
more cash at 17:15. And then paid the rest of the money to the same payee by 17:50.
Ive seen an email to Metro Bank from the email address Mr U has given to this service 
dated 3 September 2018 in which he says that someone mustve obtained my details 
somehow and conducted all this. I was not involved in this and Ive been a victim fraud or 
identity fraud of some sort. Metro Bank responded the next day to ask him to get in touch 
but there is no evidence he then did so. In August 2019 he raised a formal complaint about 
the CIFAS marker.
He has clearly given a different account now. And I dont find it credible that he didnt have 
suspicions about the source of this money. It was far more than he says he was expecting. 
He was paid a significant amount for paying this from the account. He did this quickly and on 
his account in a way to avoid this being flagged. And he has nothing to support what he says 
 or even say that he only retained £300 of the money given he also took out £2,000 in cash 
that afternoon. It isnt clear to me why he thought a friend was arranging for him to be sent 
all this money. And in my view he reasonably knew this money wasnt from a legitimate 
source or at the least that it might not be. He doesnt strike me as a victim of any scam 
himself here despite what he originally said to Metro Bank. I am afraid on balance that I think 
he was reasonably aware of what was happening and didnt act unwittingly.
Metro Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr U received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Metro Bank was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Metro Bank needs to have enough information to 
make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion.
Having reviewed Mr Us account of events and the evidence Metro Bank has provided, Im 
satisfied that Metro Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr U received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this or do anything 
about this at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money. He kept at least part of the money.
- Metro Bank had grounds to believe that Mr U had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I understand what Mr U says about the impact he thinks the CIFAS marker is having on him, 
but I dont have a reasonable basis to require Metro Bank to remove it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman