DRN-4161294
The complaint
Ms L complains Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) gave her a loan without carrying out 
appropriate checks. Had better checks been made H&T wouldve likely discovered missed 
payment markers on her credit file. At the time Ms L also says her monthly outgoings 
exceeded her income. 
What happened
Ms L took one loan of £1,400 from H&T on 2 December 2017. Ms L was required to make 
36 monthly repayments of £60.69. Ms L has had some problems repaying the loan and H&T 
says it is being repaid through a debt management plan.  
After Ms L complained, H&T issued its final response letter saying it had lent responsibly, 
because the loan repayments looked affordable after it carried out checks which included 
reviewing Ms Ls bank statements and carrying out a credit search.  Unhappy with the 
response, Ms L referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. She said that H&T had 
verified her income through her bank statements  which was more than Ms L had declared 
to it as part of her application. She also said there wasnt anything of concern in the credit 
check results. 
Ms L didnt agree saying that she nearly lost her home at the time the loan was approved. 
Later she explained she had to borrow money from friends and family to make the 
repayment and her income has since fluctuated. As no agreement could be reached, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether H&T completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms L 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Ms L wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that H&T did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms L and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required H&T to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Ms Ls ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so H&T had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Ms L. In 
practice this meant that H&T had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Ms L undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for H&T to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms L. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon 
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the Ms L (e.g. her 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, 
a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the smaller Ms Ls income was (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a smaller level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint.
Ms L was required to make repayments to H&T over quite a long period of time  three 
years, so I do think, before this loan was granted it needed to gain a thorough understanding 
of Ms Ls financial position. And from the checks that it carried out, I think it did that. 
Ms L declared as part of her application that she worked for this company, part time and 
received £766 per month in salary. H&T also knew she lived in rented accommodation and 
had two dependants. 
Ms L also declared outgoings of £605 per month across several different categories such as 
travel, housekeeping, phone, rent and utilities. However, as part of Ms Ls application H&T 
reviewed her bank statements  which I do consider reasonable given the term that Ms L 
was due to repay this loan over. After reviewing her bank statements, Ms Ls monthly 
outgoings were more likely to be around £799 per month. 
Now, that wouldve caused H&T some concern given that as part of her application Ms L 
declared a part time monthly income of £766  and so H&T may have believed her 
outgoings were more than just her salary. However, H&T has said that at the time, Ms L had 
underreported her income because she was in receipt of certain additional in work and child 
benefits  which were visible from her bank statements.
These could have been taken into account when assessing her affordability for the loan. And 
these benefits added an additional £533 per month to her income  taking it to around 
£1,299. Therefore, a monthly repayment due to H&T of around £61 wouldve looked 
affordable. In addition, Ive reviewed the bank statements to see whether there were any other signs of 
either financial difficulties or whether the loan repayments may have been unsustainable for 
Ms L. Having done so, I dont think there was anything else that ought to have led H&T to 
carry out further enquires with Ms L or to have declined the loan. 
There were occasionally declined transactions, but this seems to have been as a result of 
Ms L not having an overdraft on her account but even thinking about that, I dont think that 
on its own wouldve been enough for H&T to believe that this loan would be unaffordable or 
unsustainable for Ms L. 
Before the loan was approved H&T also carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with the results it received from the credit reference agency. And so, 
like the bank statements, Ive reviewed them to see whether there were indicators of 
financial difficulties or any other information that H&T needed to take account of, before 
advancing the loan. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led H&T 
to have carried out further checks  Ms L had six active accounts with a total outstanding 
balance due of £2,256. She also hadnt opened any other accounts within the last six 
months and hadnt any delinquent payment markers recorded on her credit file within the 
year proceeding the loan and she hadnt defaulted on an account within the last three years. 
Overall, there were no signs, from the credit check results which indicated Ms L was in 
financial difficulties, was having problems managing her existing credit commitments or had 
unsustainable levels of debt. 
Im sorry to hear that at the time, Ms L nearly lost her home, but that information wasnt 
reflected in what she declared to H&T, what was visible in her bank statements or in her 
credit report results. So, I cant fairly say that H&T ought to have known about the problems 
Ms L was having.  
Given this was the first loan  I think it was reasonable for H&T to have relied on the 
information Ms L provided to it  which included her bank statements which showed she had 
sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. The information also didnt suggest 
Ms L was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for 
her for some other reason. 
Im therefore not upholding Ms Ls complaint about this loan and because an outstanding 
balance appears to remain and I would remind H&T of its obligation to treat Ms L fairly and 
with forbearance  if necessary.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman