DRN-3075494
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) have wrongly 
pursued her for a debt outstanding when she returned her car.
What happened
Mrs T acquired a new car in November 2017 with the assistance of finance from MBFS. 
Because of a change in circumstances Mrs T couldnt afford the repayments. Mrs T 
contacted MBFS to discuss a payment holiday and to consider her options to terminate the 
agreement early. Mrs T asked for a repayment holiday for April, May and June.
MSFS explained to Mrs T that she could voluntarily terminate the agreement on repayment 
of a shortfall of around £1800. Mrs T approached the dealership that she had bought the car 
from to see if they would be interested in buying it back. The dealership agreed to buy it 
back and to settle the outstanding finance.
Mrs T returned the car in early July 2020. The dealership requested a settlement figure from 
MBFS on 2 July 2020 and paid the quoted figure. The dealership then paid the balance to 
Mrs T. This money was paid into an overdrawn account, so Mrs T no longer has that money 
available to her.
MBFS said that the instalment for July 2020 was not included in the settlement figure as it 
was due on 1 July and the settlement figure given to the dealership assumed it would be 
successfully paid. The instalment wasnt paid by Mrs T as she had cancelled the direct debit 
and so the finance has not been settled in full.  The dealership has said that it is the 
responsibility of Mrs T to repay this instalment to MBFS.
Mrs T has said that she is in financial difficulty and unable to pay this amount and that MBFS 
gave incorrect information to the dealership. Mrs T says that the decision to pursue her for 
this debt has caused her extreme stress and anxiety and she does not feel she has been 
treated fairly.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They thought that MBFS hadnt 
done anything wrong by issuing the settlement figure with Junes payment included. They 
acknowledged that Mrs T had been given some confusing information from MBFS about 
whether the settlement was a voluntary termination or a settlement, but it didnt change the 
position that the money was due. They didnt think that MBFS had been wrong to pursue Mrs 
T for the debt and it hadnt acted unfairly. 
Mrs T didnt agree and said that she had been given a refund from MBFS and there had 
been confusion about this settlement. Mrs T said that her circumstances were such that she 
would never be able to repay this debt and it wasnt fair to pursue her for it. Mrs T asked for 
an ombudsman to review her complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to assure Mrs T that I have read all of the information she has provided. I 
sympathise with her difficult circumstances and I can understand how much worry and 
anxiety this has caused. 
I can only consider whether MBFS has done anything wrong. If MBFS has made a mistake 
or not treated Mrs T fairly then I can ask it to put things right for her.
When MBFS issued the settlement figure to the dealership on 2 July 2020 it did so on the 
basis that the 3-month repayment holiday was over and the instalment that was due on 1 
July 2020 would be received as it had already been requested from Mrs Ts bank account. 
This payment was not received as the direct debit was not active.
It seems that there was some confusion about whether Mrs T had voluntarily terminated the 
agreement and what process was followed. However, after some clarification from the 
dealership the money was correctly applied to Mrs Ts contract. I cant say that the confusion 
means that the amount isnt owing.  The dealership has said that it isnt responsible for the 
unpaid instalment and it paid the settlement figure as required.
As has been explained to Mrs T by the investigator I cant ask the dealership to do anything 
as I can only look at Mrs Ts financial contract with MBFS. Based on the information I have I 
cant say that MBFS was wrong not to include the instalment due on 1 July in the settlement 
figure. The repayment holiday had ended and there was no reason for MBFS to think that 
the payment wouldnt be received. MBFS had already called for the payment from Mrs Ts 
account. Taking everything into account MBFS isnt wrong to say that Mrs T owes this 
amount.  
I appreciate the difficulty Mrs T is in and I would expect MBFS to consider these 
circumstances when arranging any repayment plan. I would expect MBFS to treat Mrs T 
positively and sympathetically.
As I said I cant look at Mrs Ts complaints about the dealership or whether they are 
responsible for this repayment I can only conclude that MBFS do not need to take any 
further action. 
I know my decision will be a disappointment to Mrs T but for the reasons I have explained 
above I am unable to uphold this complaint.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman