DRN-2929353
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a payment made from his bank 
account which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
On 16 November 2020, a £720 payment was made from Mr Ss bank account with Barclays. 
The transaction was made over Barclays telephone banking system, with a new payee set 
up as the beneficiary. The payment was first instructed at 14:37 and left Mr Ss account in 
the few minutes that followed. 
Later that same day, Mr S told Barclays that he didnt authorise the payment. He said hed 
been asleep for some hours over the course of that afternoon and was therefore sure he 
hadnt contacted the bank to make the transaction. According to what he told Barclays, the 
first he knew of the £720 leaving his account was upon reading a text message that Barclays 
had sent him regarding the setting up of the new payee. This beneficiary was not known to 
him, so Mr S concluded that he must have been the victim of a scam. 
Barclays investigated what happened and decided that it wasnt required to refund Mr S. It 
told him that there was no clear point of compromise for his card or his security credentials, 
which were required in order for the payment be sent. Overall, it wasnt persuaded that Mr S 
hadnt authorised the transaction. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S asked our service to decide the complaint. One of our investigators
looked into it and ultimately wasnt satisfied Mr S had been the victim of a scam. In 
particular, he wasnt persuaded there was a plausible explanation for how the payment went 
ahead without Mr Ss consent. 
Mr S does not agree. He submits that he could not have made the payment himself and his 
card and mobile phone remained in his close possession while he was asleep, with no one 
else being aware of his security credentials. As Mr S sees it, it could only have been a form 
of computer hack, and/or a member of staff at Barclays being to blame. 
Because Mr S is not in agreement, the matter has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my intended decision will be disappointing for Mr S. This is a finely-balanced case
and Id like to assure him that Ive duly considered everything thats been provided. 
But on account of the evidence, Im not currently persuaded that Barclays ought to refund 
the disputed £720 here. Ill explain why.
relevant considerations
Its important to point out that its not for me to determine exactly what happened on           
16 November 2020. Rather, what I need to decide is whether Barclays could fairly and 
reasonably hold Mr S liable for the transaction he said he didnt make that day.
One of the regulations that is relevant when considering this is the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). In short, Barclays is generally required to refund any
unauthorised transactions. There are some exceptions in the regulations  but none Ive
needed to consider or that have an impact on the decision I intend to make here.
So, put simply, the case turns on whether the transaction in question here was authorised. 
Ive therefore focused on this key point in my decision.
was the disputed transaction authorised?
For a transaction to be authorised it must first be authenticated. We know that certain 
security checks needed to be satisfied in order for the disputed transaction to go ahead as it 
did here. Its common ground that it was Mr Ss security credentials that were used as 
authentication. And the technical evidence presented by Barclays satisfies me that the 
transaction was correctly authenticated using these credentials.
That on its own is not enough to enable Barclays to hold Mr S liable. However, Barclays can 
hold him liable if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he consented to the 
transaction being made. This is the case whether he made them himself or authorised 
another to do so.
Mr S has made a number of submissions to our service and Im satisfied that hes been 
given ample opportunity to present his case. Throughout which, hes remained consistent in 
his version in events by maintaining that he was asleep at the time the transaction was 
made. He couldnt say exactly when he fell asleep or when he woke up  but hes certain 
that he was not awake over the course of a few hours during the afternoon of 16 November 
2020. 
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr S consented to the transactions. When doing so, I 
must consider that there are some parts to what happened that remain unexplained. That is, 
what Barclays knows to be true about how the payment was executed simply could not have 
been possible based on Mr Ss account of what happened. In situations like these, where 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I need to decide a complaint on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened in light of all the available evidence and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
Upon doing so, I am not currently persuaded that Mr S didnt provide his consent for these
transactions to go ahead. I say so for the following reasons:
1. On his account of what happened, Mr S was on his own and asleep when the payment 
was sent  he says he simply could not have performed the steps we know took place, 
because he wasnt awake and there was nobody else with him. Therefore, in order to 
require Barclays to refund the £720 back to his account, it must be on the basis that Im 
satisfied someone intercepted the means to make the transaction without his consent. 2. Its common ground that the transaction was made through Barclays telephone banking. 
Whoever made the payment correctly answered the security questions to be able to 
proceed. I understand one such security measure included entering at least part of       
Mr Ss 16-digit card number. Yet, Mr S is very confident that the card remained in his 
sole possession at the material time. Based on what hes described, it seems highly 
unlikely that someone could obtain the required answers to satisfy security.
3. The timing of the changes in Mr Ss account balance is significant. A payment credited 
the account shortly before the disputed £720 was paid out. I understand this was a 
planned credit from Mr Ss brother. This being paid in allowed for the disputed payment 
to be paid out, as there were insufficient funds beforehand. According to Mr S, nobody 
else but him wouldve known his account balance would increase in such a way, at such 
a time. I must consider that its therefore very coincidental that a perpetrator would just 
so happen to access the account just after a planned credit of this kind. 
4. It seems likely to me that the account balance was checked prior to the payment being 
instructed in order to establish whether this arranged credit had reached yet. We know 
that Mr S was expecting the payment in from his brother and Barclays has evidenced 
that Mr Ss mobile banking facility was logged into a number of times leading up to when 
the disputed payment was initiated, and shortly afterwards. The mobile banking app 
wouldve presented Mr Ss account balance, confirming that there were sufficient funds 
to make the £720 payment once this credit was received. 
5. We know the facility was accessed via Mr Ss own mobile phone. This wouldve required 
a passcode in order to unlock the phone itself in the first instance  a code which Mr S 
says is known only to him. His mobile banking app required another password  which, 
again, Mr S says only he knew. Mr S is adamant that his security information could not 
have been intercepted  hes sure no one could have captured it or guessed it correctly 
to be able to successfully impersonate him. Consequently, I cannot see a plausible 
explanation for how someone was able to access Mr Ss mobile banking without his 
consent.  
6. So, I must consider that only Mr S had the required passwords to be able to check his 
mobile banking. And the pattern of log in times indicates to me that whoever was using 
mobile banking did so because they were awaiting confirmation of an incoming credit  
there doesnt appear another convincing reason why the account was checked so 
frequently in a short space of time.
7. Mr S asserts that his laptop computer may have been in some way connected to the 
scam, as he accessed his online banking from this device a matter of days before          
16 November 2020. Hes unsure how this happened exactly and its important to note 
that he hasnt provided any supporting evidence. Only that this was the first time in a 
long while (if ever) that he used online banking from this computer, instead of continuing 
to use his mobile banking facility (as the two are different). 
8. I accept that the manipulation of Mr Ss online banking was possible. However, I reach 
my decision not on mere possibilities  but rather based on what I find most probable. 
And on balance, I am not persuaded that this is what happened. I say so because, 
theres a distinct lack of evidence that another device was in any way involved. Theres 
no record of Mr Ss account being accessed at the material time other than through his 
mobile banking facility. And Im satisfied that Barclays has the technology to detect with 
reasonable accuracy when a computer device is used to log in to check online banking, 
instead of mobile banking through a mobile phone.9. Besides, Mr Ss theory does not offer a plausible explanation for how his mobile banking 
was able to be accessed while he was asleep. And if I were to accept what Mr S thinks 
happened, theres also no clear point of compromise for the required information to be 
intercepted in order for the payment to go ahead via telephone banking. 
10. Whats more, it does not make sense to me why a fraudster who could access Mr Ss 
mobile banking and/or online banking would then make a call to Barclays to instruct the 
bank to make a fraudulent payment via telephone banking. I cant see a persuasive 
reason for why a fraudster would jeopardise stealing money from an account by calling 
the bank, when they already had gained access to being able to make payments out of 
that account. In other words, it seems highly improbable that a fraudster would choose to 
overcome further security measures when they had the means to make payments 
already. Under these circumstances, I am not persuaded that someone using the 
account without Mr Ss consent would take such an unnecessary risk.
11. The only other explanation Mr S has offered is that it was a member of staff at Barclays 
who was complicit in the fraud. This is a strong accusation. Such allegations should not 
be made lightly or without concrete evidence  and Mr S has had a fair opportunity to 
substantiate this claim in his submissions to our service but has failed to provide any 
compelling evidence to support his claim. 
12. Ultimately, Mr S has not persuasively proven his case having been given a fair chance to 
do so. In fairness, I am faced with a version of events from Mr S that leaves me 
unconvinced for how the payment could have taken place without his consent. For me to 
accept his side of things and uphold the complaint, I would need to go against what I see 
as a logical and plausible explanation for the payments execution. After all, I must follow 
the evidence  and I cannot safely conclude that the activity in question went ahead 
without his consent.
13. This is not, however, the same as dismissing Mr Ss statement  and I hope Mr S can 
appreciate that it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold this complaint based 
on his testimony if on balance the evidence suggests otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman