DRN-2748341
The complaint
Mr B complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined his claim on 
his building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr B purchased a property which was still covered by a ten-year NHBC building warranty 
policy. The cover started in 2016. 
In 2020, Mr B made a claim for a bulge in an external wall. In years three to ten of the cover, 
section 3 of the policy applies. Section 3 covers physical damage if its been caused by the 
builder not meeting NHBC requirements for certain parts of the property.
NHBCs investigator visited the property and considered a section 3 claim. However, NHBC 
declined the claim on the basis there wasnt any physical damage present.
The investigator noted a minor deviation in the walls surface in the upper gable, but the wall 
was found to be free from physical damage. Whilst the investigator observed some cracking, 
he concluded this had been caused by normal shrinkage and settlement between different 
types of materials, which is excluded by the policy.
The investigator noted that the wall had an acceptable finish and was reasonably uniform in 
texture, colour and finish. He said he didnt identify any signs of damage or displacement 
that would suggest the external wall makeup is failing to support the intended load.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. It was considered by one of our investigators, but 
he thought NHBC had fairly declined the claim. Because Mr B disagreed, his complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B points towards a quote from a builder. The builder noted the gable end was built to a 
poor standard. He said it was bellying in places, to such a degree, the irons couldnt be 
bedded and fixed to the stone work as required by NHBC guidelines.
Mr B says the deviation in the wall is over 8mm and this contravenes NHBC requirements 
and building regulations.
For a section 3 claim to succeed, there has to be physical damage. Mr B hasnt provided 
anything that persuades me the cracks arent due to shrinkage and settlement. As such, 
I accept NHBCs conclusions on this point (and such damage is excluded by the policy 
terms). 
Ive also considered Mr Bs builders comments, about the wall bellying in places. However, 
in my view, the builders observations in his quote dont support physical damage has been 
caused, only that potentially, the wall hasnt been constructed as it ought to have been in 
places in respect of the irons. Although I accept the wall has been built with a deviation 
(which is difficult to see in the photos), this doesnt automatically lead me to conclude 
physical damage has been, or is being, caused by the potential construction issues.
Having considered the information presented, Im not persuaded that NHBC unfairly declined 
the claim. If Mr B was to provide NHBC with more complete expert opinion that supported 
physical damage is being caused, I would expect NHBC to consider his section 3 claim 
further.
Mr B also considers there to be a risk of the wall collapsing. Section 4 of the policy provides 
cover if theres an immediate danger to someones physical health or safety because the 
builder failed to meet certain building regulations when building the main structure of the 
property. Section 4 only applies if NHBC provided the building control service for the 
property.
We havent been provided with the warranty certificate for Mr Bs property, so I dont know if 
NHBC provided building control. However, even if section 4 does apply to Mr Bs property, 
he hasnt provided any expert opinion which supports the wall presents an immediate 
danger. So, in any event, at this time Im not persuaded NHBC needs to consider a 
section 4 claim.
Again, if Mr B was to provide NHBC with expert opinion that supports the wall presents an 
immediate danger, I would expect NHBC to consider a section 4 claim (if indeed, it did 
provide building control).
Finally, Mr B says NHBC sent a painter and decorator to inspect a serious structural issue. 
However, I havent seen anything that leads me to doubt the credibility of NHBCs report, 
and importantly here, Mr B hasnt provided anything that persuades me a claim should 
succeed. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman