DRN-3787914
The complaint
Mrs L is complaining about the way HSBC Life (UK) Limited handled her data subject access 
request (DSAR). 
What happened
In early July 2021, Mrs L asked HSBC Life to send her all the documents they held in 
relation to her and her husband. HSBC Life sent a bundle of documents to her within a 
month, in early August 2021, but when Mrs L looked through them, she noticed that there 
were some documents missing.
Mrs L contacted HSBC Life and complained. Initially HSBC Life misunderstood her 
complaint and their response assumed she was complaining that theyd taken too long to 
provide the documents. So, they said theyd done nothing wrong as theyd sent the 
documents within the calendar month allowed by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). But when Mrs L clarified that her complaint was about the missing information HSBC 
Life sent it within a few days. They also offered Mrs L £150 to apologise.
Mrs L was very upset. She said £150 was nowhere near enough to compensate her for the 
amount of stress and upset the matter had caused her. She complained to the ICO, and to 
our service. The ICO upheld Mrs Ls complaint and said HSBC Life needed to send any 
outstanding information to Mrs L. But they said Mrs L would need to go to an ombudsman or 
other regulatory body if she was seeking compensation.
Mrs L brought her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into things. She said 
she thought £150 was enough to compensate Mrs L for the inconvenience and upset HSBC 
Life caused. Mrs L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Im aware itll be disappointing for Mrs L, Im not going to ask HSBC Life to do any 
more than pay the £150 theyve offered. Ill explain why.
What went wrong
Theres no question that things went wrong in this process. Firstly, HSBC Life missed some 
of the documents when sending the DSAR bundle to Mrs L. And secondly, they 
misunderstood Mrs Ls complaint which delayed the documents by a further few days. 
Although HSBC Life took longer to deal with Mrs Ls complaint than shed have liked, the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys regulations allow a firm up to eight weeks to respond a 
consumers complaint. I can see Mrs L thought shed raised a complaint on 4 August 2021 
but HSBC Life have no record of this. They raised the complaint on 19 August, and sent their 
response within the eight weeks allowed. So although I appreciate Mrs L was very frustrated 
by the timescales, I cant say HSBC Life took too long to deal with the complaint.  
Impact and compensation
As our investigator explained, our role is not to punish businesses, but to decide whats a 
reasonable amount of compensation to reflect the scale of an error and its impact on the 
consumer. From the calls and emails between Mrs L and HSBC Life, its clear that Mrs L 
was very frustrated by this process. But the omission of a few documents from a very large 
bundle is a fairly small, one-off error. The documents ended up being delayed by about two 
months.
I cant see why the two-month delay would have had a particular impact on Mrs L  she 
didnt tell HSBC Life why there was any urgency in receiving the documents  only that she 
was very angry that it was taking so long. Clearly it was inconvenient for her to have to 
chase the matter up with HSBC Life, and its fair to expect that Mrs L would be frustrated 
with that. But Im satisfied that £150 is an appropriate amount to compensate Mrs L for the 
inconvenience and upset the delays caused.
Because Mrs L rejected HSBC Lifes offer, they havent yet paid her the £150. So Im now 
asking HSBC Life to pay this amount to Mrs L.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, my final decision is that HSBC Life (UK) Ltd should pay £150 to 
Mrs L to compensate her for the upset and inconvenience they caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman