DRN-2159760
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society (when it was trading as 
Dunfermline Building Society) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to Nationwide as the seller in my decision. 
What happened
Theres only limited information now available about what happened. But its agreed that 
Mr and Mrs M took out PPI alongside a mortgage in 2002. 
Nationwides records say that two PPI policies were sold alongside the mortgage. The 
policies protected the mortgage monthly repayments if Mr and Mrs M couldnt work.  
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr and Mrs M disagree. 
Mr and Mrs M mainly say that PPI wasnt something they needed and they felt that as Mr M 
was self-employed, the policy wouldnt have been any use to him. They told us that PPI 
wasnt properly explained  they had thought it was needed to get the mortgage and said 
they wouldnt have taken it out if they had been made aware that PPI was optional. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Usually Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been presented. But Nationwide hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed by Mr and Mrs M from when the PPI was taken out. 
I dont think thats surprising. It looks like this mortgage account ran for less than a year and 
its been closed for around 17 years. I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have kept records 
about a closed account for so long. 
Mr and Mrs M remember speaking with an advisor at one of the building societys branches 
when they arranged their mortgage and the PPI. So, I think thats probably what happened.
But what Mr and Mrs M have said about the way they were sold the PPI isn't enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at all the available information 
and decide what I think is most likely. 
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs M werent given a 
fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account without their consent. 
But I cant fairly say this based on the limited information Ive got. 
I think its likely that their mortgage was a major financial commitment for Mr and Mrs M and 
their home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. I think its 
more likely that they felt they wanted to have the benefits PPI offered and they decided to 
buy the policy. 
 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs M might now have forgotten some of these 
details. But, on balance, I think its likely that Nationwide made Mr and Mrs M aware that the 
PPI was optional and it was added to their account at their request when they chose to have 
it. 
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage in joint names when they were both in work and 
contributing towards paying the mortgage. So although Nationwide couldnt confirm whose 
name each of the policies was in, I think its reasonable to assume that Mr and Mrs M 
probably wouldve taken out a policy each. This meant that they could both take advantage 
of the benefits having PPI offered them. 
Nationwide says didnt advise Mr and Mrs M to take out PPI. Mr and Mrs M say that the PPI 
was recommended to them. But I dont need to decide this point because I dont think PPI 
wouldve been unsuitable for them if it had been recommended. 
One of the policies provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover  the other 
provided accident and sickness cover only. 
Looking at the likely policy terms, it appears that both Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the 
cover.
Ive taken into account what Mrs M told us about her sick pay entitlement through work  she 
couldve relied on getting 6 months' full sick pay followed by half pay for 6 months. But the 
policy couldve paid out in full for longer - up to 12 months per claim if she was off work as a 
result of accident or sickness. It wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing a useful 
benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mr and Mrs M faced extra costs as a 
result of Mrs M being ill or disabled  especially as shed have been on half pay only after 
just 6 months off work.
As a self-employed person Mr M didnt have any sick pay arrangements in place. So I think 
the policy offered Mr and Mrs M useful protection in the event Mr M wasnt able to work as a 
result of an accident or sickness as they mightve found it hard to keep up the mortgage 
repayment for long if only Mrs M was earning given that they took out the mortgage when 
they were both in paid work.
Nationwide cant confirm who had which policy  so its not clear whether it was Mr M or 
Mrs M who wouldve been able to make a claim on the policy that offered protection against 
unemployment. But this makes no overall difference to the outcome of their complaint.
I say this because they couldve both benefited from a policy that paid out for up to 
12 months in the event of unexpected unemployment. 
Ive checked the policy terms and it doesnt look like it wouldve been any harder for Mr M to 
make a claim under this part of the policy than it wouldve been for someone who was 
employed. Mr and Mrs M mentioned having no savings or other insurance cover they couldve relied on. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs M could depend on being able to continue to cover their 
mortgage monthly repayments if they werent working. 
Based on everything Ive seen about their circumstances at the time, I think the policy 
offered Mr and Mrs M a range of useful benefits and a recommendation to take out this 
cover (if there was one) wouldve been suitable for them.  
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. And although there were some things the policy didnt cover, it doesnt 
look like the policy terms made it harder for either Mr M or Mrs M to make a claim. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs M that Ive thought carefully about what they have said 
concerning Mr Ms employment situation, given that this was one of the main reasons they 
were worried theyd been mis-sold PPI. 
The PPI was intended to provide cover in the event a policyholder lost his (or her) job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
This could include a self-employed person not having sufficient work to be able to earn 
enough to keep his business going and provide an income to cover his reasonable living 
expenses. And the Inland revenue would need to be notified of this.
So, if Mr M was the person who had the benefit of unemployment cover, I dont think that it 
wouldve been significantly harder for him to make an unemployment claim than it wouldve 
been for someone who was employed. And it doesnt look as if Mr M was affected by any of 
the other main conditions that mightve limited the policys benefits to him.
If it was Mrs M who had the unemployment cover, she wouldve been able to benefit from all 
the main things the policy offered.
So, even if not everything was mentioned, I dont think its likely that having clearer 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mr and Mrs M off 
buying the PPI. 
I dont know if or how policy costs were explained to Mr and Mrs M when they signed up for 
PPI. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that their PPI wasnt affordable for them. As these were 
policies they paid for each month, Mr and Mrs M couldve cancelled either or both of them at 
any time at no extra cost if they didnt want to pay for the cover. 
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way these policies were sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policies if theyd been better informed 
as they gave each of them useful protection. I dont think having better information wouldve 
put them off buying the PPI.
 
Looked at overall, this means I dont find that Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result of 
anything that Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2020. 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman