DRN-2693237
The complaint
Mr J complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc trading as Tesco Bank wont refund a 
payment made on his credit card to a secondary ticket selling website for some concert 
tickets. 
What happened
In December 2018 four tickets were purchased through the Website to attend a concert 
using Mr Js Tesco credit card. The total cost charged to his card for these tickets was just 
over £2264.
Later Mr J discovered the tickets he received were not VIP tickets, as he says he was 
expecting, but rather standing tickets more like general admission type tickets. Mr J still went 
to the concert but was still unhappy in not getting the VIP tickets. So Mr J asked Tesco to 
help. 
Tesco looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This was because it didnt think 
it could pursue a chargeback because it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. It 
also thought a Section 75 claim would also be unsuccessful.
Mr J didnt think this was fair, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly by declining Mr Js 
request for a refund. Mr J didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by making clear that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling 
website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. This 
decision is about Tesco and whether it has done anything wrong with regard to this 
transaction or subsequently. Mr J has made his views of the Website clear. But Tesco and 
this website are separate entities providing different services. It is important that this 
distinction between the parties involved is clear.
There are a number of different issues within this complaint and I shall deal with them in turn 
and chronologically as far as possible.
Mr J accepts he made this transaction for these tickets and he hasnt disputed that he knew 
the amount he was paying. But he says he was paying that amount as a treat for a VIP event 
experience. Only after the purchase, once he had concerns about the exact nature of the 
tickets hed purchased did he speak to Tesco. So having considered what Mr J has said 
(including that he made this purchase and paid for the tickets) and the evidence of Tesco, 
Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Mr J and correctly applied to Mr Js 
credit card account with Tesco. 
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr J does 
here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful. But I should add that card providers and indeed merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including goodwill, commercial pragmatism 
and other reasons along with outcome of the chargeback being successful through the 
actual chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt necessarily mean 
that card issuers should refund every transaction similar to this one.
I dont think Tesco couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr J didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Tesco is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The Website would then receive that chargeback 
request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If it contests, 
then Tesco should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is warranted then it 
can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not Tesco) who will 
then make an independent determination on the matter. So Tesco isnt solely responsible for 
the decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback process. And it 
can decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of 
success.
Tesco has told us it didnt raise a chargeback request. It has said that Mr J got tickets to the 
concert he wanted to go to. It has also noted that it thinks the scheme providers position 
based on its experience is that by attending the concert Mr J either made use of the correct 
tickets or was accepting of alternate tickets. Accordingly whichever way you look at this 
situation it doesnt think there would have been a reasonable prospect of success through 
chargeback. And hence it argues Mr J hasnt lost out. 
I can see from both the order confirmation and the other correspondence regarding the 
tickets and the tickets themselves from the Website that there is no description of the tickets 
being VIP experience tickets as Mr J has described. And the tickets themselves make clear 
what they are, where to enter and other similar details.
In short Mr J accepts he wanted to buy tickets at that price, authorised the transaction and 
got tickets. I appreciate Mr Js comments regarding which tickets he wanted to buy through 
the Website, but there is no persuasive evidence to support this. The Website made clear 
that it didnt think it had done anything wrong and had evidence of and from the purchase. 
Mr J hadnt provided sufficient persuasive evidence for Tesco to think the Website had got it 
wrong. So I think Mr J hasnt lost out due to Tescos position on this matter. I think Tescos 
position that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success in raising a chargeback to be fair 
and reasonable.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Js Tesco credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against Tesco as he does against the 
supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier if certain conditions are met. For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in 
place. Through establishing the exact nature of sales such as this this service has built up an 
understanding of secondary ticketing websites including the one in this case. I note that the 
Websites terms and conditions in this case say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. But that the Website does 
provide a service. And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website says 
it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr J, Tesco and the 
Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such as venue, date, time, 
and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, its 
responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller doesnt fulfil their 
obligations around supplying the tickets. 
Another condition necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have a cash price within certain financial limits. Im satisfied the 
financial limits here are met and so Mr J can make a valid claim here.
For a successful claim Mr J would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website. Mr J has repeatedly argued that he didnt get what he bought, namely VIP 
tickets (rather than standing tickets which he received).
It seems to me that it is possible that Mr J is merging the responsibilities of the ticket seller 
and the Website. But the situation here is that they are distinct sets of actions and 
responsibilities. And I can only uphold this complaint against Tesco if it fails in some way or 
that I am persuaded that the Website has breached or misrepresented the service it 
provides. 
Mr J says hes been the victim of fraud but there is no persuasive evidence of this. He also 
says he knows full well what I attempted to purchase. However it seems to me at least as 
likely that Mr J inadvertently bought the tickets he received as he bought them through an 
automated process. And the tickets he had bought were later confirmed by the Website. And 
the Website has confirmed that there was no error on its part.  And Mr Bs explanation of 
what happened during the ticket buying process isnt particularly detailed to my mind.  And it 
is clear that such website sales are automated processes. So Im not persuaded he got 
something different to that he actually purchased.
Mr J makes the point that the tickets say they are not transferable. And although most tickets 
(including this one) state they are not transferable; the Website makes clear that it is a ticket 
reselling website (contrary to Mr Js views on the matter). And it is clear that tickets are 
regularly transferred and that such transfers do not lead to valid ticket holders (who are not 
the original purchaser) being excluded from entering events and concerts. So Mr J was on 
notice he was buying a ticket through a ticket reselling website when he bought this ticket. So Im not persuaded the Website and hence Tesco has done anything wrong here. I think 
on balance that Mr J got the tickets he bought. And he was able to attend the concert, so the 
transferability of the tickets didnt cause him any significant detriment.
But for the similar reasons as described earlier and above Im not persuaded that there was 
breach or misrepresentation here by the Website. The Website has said that its a ticket 
reselling website. It has provided a service (as Ive described) and I am not persuaded it has 
breached the contract in providing that service which it provides. Nor has it misrepresented 
that service to Mr J to my mind. 
For the sake of completeness I shall address some of Mr Js other arguments. Mr J says 
hes the victim of fraud by the Website. This decision is about Tesco and I can only uphold 
this complaint against Tesco if Im satisfied its done something wrong. Im not so persuaded 
here.
Mr J says hes been misled, and Tesco knows this. Im not persuaded that Tesco has done 
anything wrong for the reasons given.
Lastly Mr J says he didnt know it was a ticket resale site. Having looked into the Website 
and the terms and conditions as described Im not persuaded Mr J was misled on this issue.
In summary I think that Mr J hasnt lost out here. I dont think hes lost out because of a 
chargeback not being pursued. And Im not persuaded that there has been a breach or 
misrepresentation here by the Website. And I think Tesco correctly applied the cost of the 
tickets to Mr Js credit card account. So I dont think I can fairly require Tesco to refund Mr J 
for the tickets.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance Plc trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman