DRN-3899451
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain that Covea Insurance plc handled a claim made on their buildings 
insurance poorly. They feel theyve lost out as a result and that needless delays were added. 
What happened
Mrs T and Mr T have brought their complaint to us with the assistance of a representative. 
But for ease of reference in my decision, unless otherwise stated, Ill refer to Mrs T and Mr T, 
for theirs and the representatives actions collectively. 
Mrs T and Mr T have complained about the actions of Covea when handling two claims 
made on their buildings insurance policy. A claim for subsidence and a claim for the escape 
of water and resulting damage. These complaints have been split and this complaint focuses 
on the escape of water claim, although there is some overlap with the two and Ive given 
consideration to this.
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive not set out the details 
here. Instead Ill focus on the reasoning for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know Mrs T and Mr T will be unhappy with this, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
There are three main areas of complaint raise by Mrs T and Mr T. Ill deal with these in turn.
Alternative accommodation costs
At the heart of this complaint is the decision Covea took around the alternative 
accommodation (AA) and the money paid to Mrs T and Mr T in lieu of these costs. Mrs T and 
Mr T feel Covea knew they were unable to move out of their home because of a lack of 
availability of properties that met their needs for the time frame required. So when AA was 
agreed but couldnt be found, Mrs T and Mr T let Covea know they were staying in the 
property. Covea paid a cash settlement for the AA costs for six months at a rate of £3500.00 
per month. When the six months expired they expected Covea to maintain payments at this 
level. 
Covea has disputed that it was aware that Mrs T and Mr T continued to live in their property 
when the AA payment was made. Theyve said had they been aware of this, the amount 
offered as a disturbance allowance would have been very different to what was paid. 
Because of this, it didnt agree to maintain the payment once it was clear Mrs T and Mr T 
were still living in the property.
I understand why Mrs T and Mr T are unhappy that Covea seemingly changed its position on 
the AA payments when they feel it was clear they were living in the property. I think it is 
possible that Covea or its agents could have been aware sooner that Mrs T and Mr T hadnt 
been able to find suitable AA and remained in the property. But it is also understandable why 
there could have been confusion here and that it was clear they were of the belief that Mrs T 
and Mr T had moved out when the payment was made. I say this because a payment of 
£3500 per month for a disturbance allowance is far in excess of what would normally be 
considered as fair and reasonable for this cost. So the fact it was agreed is enough to 
persuade me that Covea, wrongly believed Mrs T and Mr T had, or were going to vacate 
their property to allow the work to commence. 
When Covea realised Mrs T and Mr T hadnt moved out and its payment made with the 
intention of providing costs for AA hadnt been used for this, it was fair that they didnt 
continue to make the payment at this rate. Normally, when a claim is made and a customer 
chooses to stay in the property a payment is made to help with the costs associated with the 
disturbance. Generally speaking, this equates to around £10 per person per day. I 
appreciate Mrs T and Mr T attempted to find AA, so to say they chose to stay wouldnt be fair 
as this was more of a necessity. But it is helpful context on where a disturbance allowance 
payment amount would normally be based. 
When it became clear after the initial six months had expired that Mrs T and Mr T where still 
living in their property, I think it would have been fair to expect Covea to look again for 
suitable AA. But there was a dispute for a number of months over the payment and whether 
Covea should simply continue to pay £3500 a month. This took seven months to be agreed 
and when it was confirmed this wouldnt happen, Mrs T and Mr T moved to alternative 
accommodation. 
Covea made a payment of £10,500 for the seven months when Mrs T and Mr T remained in 
their property while the AA/disturbance allowance costs were challenged. This was paid to 
account for both the confusion caused with the previous payment and proceeding dispute 
and to reflect the conditions Mrs T and Mr T had to live in when remaining in the property. 
I know Mr T says he was injured as a result of the conditions of their property and the 
temporary flooring failing. Im sorry to see this was the case and there was clearly significant 
disruption to their living conditions when Mrs T and Mr T remained in their property for the 
time they did. But as I say, I dont think Covea needed to pay what it did as a disturbance 
allowance. And while some people involved in the claim may have been aware that it was 
unlikely that Mrs T and Mr T had moved to AA, I think it clearly didnt understand this fully 
when the payment was made. It was fair to look to reduce the cost to a more appropriate 
cost when it was confirmed and it took steps to do this and I think the award made for this 
period of time, reflecting the impact of the situation as a whole, is fair and reasonable and in 
excess of what this service would likely have awarded had no award been made for this 
period. 
With the above in mind, I see no reason to direct Covea to do anything else in relation to this 
payment or the AA costs.
Claim handling delays
This claim was relatively complex in nature with the subsidence claim being raised at the 
same time, running alongside the escape of water claim. These two issues alone can result 
in lengthy claims processes with it not being unusual to take a number of months for the 
issues to be fully resolved. 
Mrs T and Mr T have focused on the linked subsidence report and information requested 
which was relevant to this which they feel was unnecessary and added delays which could 
have been avoided. I can see why this was frustrating but I think Covea was acting fairly when requesting information relevant to the property and the claims it was considering. It 
gave clarity to the history of the property which is important when considering what was 
disclosed at the policies inception. So although not part of the information relating to the 
escape of water claim, I think Covea was acting fairly when requesting this and pausing the 
progress of the claim until it was received.
Overall, Covea engaged with Mrs T and Mr T throughout the claim and progressed the parts 
it could at each point, while seeking the information it needed. And Im not persuaded there 
was an avoidable delay added by Covea and it service when handling the claim.
Customer service 
Mrs T and Mr T are unhappy that a claims handler spoke to them directly after Covea had 
said they would not continue to speak with them. This was following Mrs T and Mr Ts 
request. 
Clearly this shouldnt have happened as Covea did expressly say this person would be 
provided feedback and advised not to contact Mrs T and Mr T again when the complaint was 
looked into. So it is fair to say there was a failing here. Covea has also acknowledged that 
the service provided by some of its staff was not at the level it would have expected. This 
included its complaint handling function and the actions here are not regulated. But I think it 
is fair to say this falls into the overall category of customer service. 
While I think it is fair to acknowledge there is points in time when the service provided by 
Covea was not satisfactory and it will have added distress and inconvenience to the claims 
process, I dont think it is fair to ask Covea to do anything more in relation to this. I say this 
because of the level of award made by Covea for the enhanced disturbance allowance 
payment from September to April. As Ive said earlier, this award is significantly higher than 
what is generally expected for disturbance allowance payments. This is without considering 
the additional £21,000.00 paid for the six months earlier (which I think was paid in error by 
Covea). 
Covea made its enhanced award in the knowledge of the impact this claim and its service 
had on Mrs T and Mr T including any failings with the service it offered. So while I 
understand that Mrs T and Mr T have their own frustration with the award and this not being 
matched to the previous months payments, I do think it represents a fair and reasonable 
settlement for the disturbance allowance and distress and inconvenience added when the 
service provided didnt always meet the required standard. And this included when Mrs T 
and Mr T were contacted by claims handlers who theyd asked to be removed from the 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman