DRN-1724871
 
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he bought through a fixed sum loan with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander).
 What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a fixed sum loan. The business say that as hes been using the 
car as a taxi the Consumer Rights Act 2015 doesnt apply because hes not been using the 
car predominantly for personal use. But, if thats the case then the relevant legislation to 
consider is the Sale of Goods Act 1979 and that offers similar courses of action for Mr A. 
The car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here 
was about four years old but had only completed about 8,827 miles when it was supplied. 
So, I dont think a reasonable person would expect much wear and tear. 
Mr A had to have the brakes and battery replaced in the first few months of ownership. 
These items may be considered wear and tear items and I am not persuaded that they were 
necessarily failing at the point the car was supplied. But I dont think I need to consider that 
in much detail as I think the subsequent faults that arose are likely to have been present 
when the car was supplied.
In July 2019 the car had several issues. Amongst those I note that the gearbox oil was dirty 
and that indicated a gearbox failure and I also note that there was a fault code present for a 
problem with the Engine Control Unit (ECU). The car had only been in Mr As possession for 
about four months at that time and I think its more likely than not that the faults were 
therefore developing at the point the car was supplied to him. 
The business had a chance to fix the car, but those repairs clearly failed as less than 50 
miles later the car was undriveable because of a gearbox failure and the same fault code 
was showing for the ECU.
I think, in those circumstances, as a repair has been unsuccessful, it would now be fair for 
the business to allow Mr A to reject the car and terminate his finance agreement with them.
Santander have argued that Mr A had been able to complete about 9,000 miles in the car 
when these failures were noted and that may suggest the problems werent developing at 
the point of supply. But, regardless of that, I dont think a reasonable person would think a 
car, that had only completed about 18,000 miles and that had cost about £11,600, would fail 
so catastrophically within the first six months and with a repair bill that was almost as much 
as the car had cost.
Santander have suggested that there may have been some tampering with the car but the 
battery the dealership have claimed was tampered with was clearly a replacement battery, 
so Im not persuaded by their argument.
Putting things right
Santander should allow Mr A to reject the car and they should terminate his finance 
agreement with them.
Mr A has explained that the car has been undriveable since August 2019 so I think 
Santander should refund all finance instalments paid from that month until this complaint is 
settled by them. Theyll need to add interest to that payment as Mr A has been deprived of 
that money.
They should also refund Mr As deposit and, again, theyll need to add interest to that refund.
Mr A has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to return his car to get 
repaired on several occasions and has had to progress his complaint to this service when I 
think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think the business should 
pay him £200 compensation.
Mr A has explained that he paid for a repair to the accelerator pedal. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to get this work done elsewhere as the dealership wanted to charge 
him for it and he appears to have been able to get it resolved more cheaply. Thats 
something Santander should have resolved for him so they should refund the cost Mr A had 
to pay if he can provide the relevant invoice to them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
terminate the agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr A;
refund Mr As deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;refund all monthly finance instalments paid from, and including, August 2019 and add 
8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
refund the charge Mr A incurred to have the accelerator pedal fixed, on provision of 
the invoice from Mr A;
pay Mr A £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman