DRN-2835807
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited wont refund to him the money that he paid for 
some credits relating to a timeshare relinquishment scheme. His complaint is being dealt 
with by his representative.
What happened
Mr S had bought a timeshare and he was invited to a meeting in September 2013 about a 
timeshare relinquishment scheme. He entered into a purchase agreement with a seller and 
an agent to buy 416,000 credits and 20,000 bonus vouchers for a price of £11,860. He used 
his Vanquis Bank credit card to pay £1,000 of the price and the balance of £10,860 was paid 
by a bank transfer in October 2013. 
Mr Ss representative made a complaint to Vanquis Bank under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in March 2019. The particulars of complaint described the 
misrepresentations and breaches of contract about which Mr S was complaining and said 
that he should receive a refund of the £11,860 that he paid to the seller, with interest, or 
Vanquis Bank should pay him 6p for each credit. 
Vanquis Bank said that the individual credit value was below the threshold for a valid 
section 75 claim, there was no proof of any misrepresentation or breach of contract and the 
debtor-creditor-supplier chain needed for a valid claim was broken. Mr S wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He described in detail 
the relationship between the seller, the agent and other companies within the same group 
and he said that they were sufficiently linked to one another so as not to break the chain as 
they all share common directors and/or controlling shareholders. He set out extracts from the 
Direct Marketing Commissions October 2015 report into one of the companies in that group 
which recommended that the its membership should be terminated because of breaches of 
relevant codes of business. He thought that the purchase agreement was misrepresented to 
Mr S and he felt that he only agreed to buy the credits because he was convinced that his 
timeshare would be relinquished and the credits would be sold after 14 months, allowing him 
to recover the value of his timeshare.
He said that the credits were sold as one contract with one purchase price of £11,860 so he 
couldnt say that the purchase fell outside of the section 75 thresholds. He recommended 
that Vanquis Bank should refund the value of the credits and vouchers to Mr S, with interest.
Vanquis Bank said that this isnt a valid section 75 claim. It says that the quantity of credits 
was 416,000 so each individual credit is considerably less than the value for a valid 
section 75 claim. It says that Mr S had the option for the credits to be split over multiple 
claims/transactions with the seller and he doesnt have to use them all in one go so they 
shouldnt be considered as one item and have an individual value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
those circumstances include that there must be a relevant relationship between the 
debtor, the creditor and the supplier and that the seller must have attached a cash 
price to any single item of at least £100;
our investigator has described in detail the relationship between the seller, the agent 
and other companies within the same group and they all share common directors 
and/or controlling shareholders;
I consider that the companies are associates as defined in the Consumer Credit Act 
and that there is a relevant relationship in these circumstances between the debtor, 
the creditor and the supplier as required for a valid claim under section 75;
the purchase agreement shows that Mr S paid £11,860 for 416,000 credits and 
20,000 bonus vouchers and Vanquis Bank says that the price of each credit is 
considerably less than the value for a valid section 75 claim;
I consider that there was an agreement for Mr S to buy the credits and for the seller 
to relinquish him from his existing timeshare so Mr S paid £11,860 for a package 
which included both the credits and the relinquishment of his timeshare  Im not 
persuaded that hed have bought the credits unless by doing so his existing 
timeshare would be relinquished;
I consider that the price attached to that package by the seller was £11,860 which is 
within the financial limits for a valid claim under section 75;
to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint about Vanquis Bank, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the seller and that Vanquis 
Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not 
determining the outcome of Mr Ss claim under section 75 as only a court would be 
able to do that;
our investigator set out extracts from the Direct Marketing Commissions October 
2015 report into one of the companies in the same group as the seller and the agent 
which recommended that that its membership should be terminated because of 
breaches of relevant codes of business;
Mr S says that he was invited to a meeting to discuss selling his timeshare and that 
he only entered into the purchase agreement because he understood that that would 
lead to his timeshare being sold;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the seller did tell Mr S that entering into 
the purchase agreement would lead to his timeshare being sold and I dont consider 
that hed have entered into the agreement unless hed been told that his timeshare 
would be sold;
Im not persuaded that theres any evidence to show that the seller had a reasonable 
basis for saying that Mr S would achieve his objective of disposing of his timeshare 
and recouping its expected value by purchasing the credits;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the seller misrepresented the purchase 
agreement and the likelihood of Mr S being able to relinquish his timeshare and that Mr S was induced into entering into that agreement by those misrepresentations;
Vanquis Bank hasnt provided a substantive response to Mr Ss claims that the 
purchase agreement was misrepresented to him so I dont consider that its response 
to his section 75 claim has been fair and reasonable; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for it to take the 
actions described below.
Putting things right
Mr S paid a total of £11,860 to the seller under the purchase agreement. He paid £1,000 in 
September 2013 using his Vanquis Bank credit card and he paid £10,860 by bank transfer in 
October 2013. I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Vanquis 
Bank to rework Mr Ss credit card account as if the payment of £1,000 hadnt been made in 
September 2013 (as set out in more detail below). I find that it would also be fair and 
reasonable for it to reimburse Mr S for the £10,860 that he paid by bank transfer, with 
interest. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Vanquis Bank to pay 
to Mr S 6p for each of the credits that he bought as compensation for the misrepresentation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order Vanquis Bank Limited to:
1. Rework Mr Ss credit card account as if the payment of £1,000 hadnt been made 
in September 2013, and - if that puts the account into credit - to pay interest at an 
annual rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that the account 
was in credit - it should also refund the credit balance to Mr S.
2. If Mr S has repaid the £1,000 (or any part of it) to Vanquis Bank but does not 
have a credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that he has repaid at an 
annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
3. Pay £10,860 to Mr S to reimburse him for the amount that he paid to the seller 
under the purchase agreement by bank transfer.
4. Pay interest on the amount at 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Vanquis Bank to deduct tax from the interest payments 
referred to above. Vanquis Bank must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman