DRN-2756570
The complaint
Mr S complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Lines (Direct Line) decision to 
decline cover for his pet insurance claim. He wants Direct Line to cover the treatment costs 
and pay compensation. 
What happened
Mr Ss pet dog developed an aural haematoma which required treatment in December 2019. 
Mr S made a claim for the treatment but this was declined by Direct Line on the basis this 
related to a pre-existing condition. Mr S complained and Direct Line responded and referred 
to Mr Ss dogs clinical notes which showed he had been seen by a vet before the policy 
started to treat the condition which was the subject of the claim. They agreed with the 
decision to decline the claim and didnt uphold the complaint.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. They thought that Direct Line hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining Mr Ss claim. Mr S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ss pet insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
under the heading General exclusions it says Direct Line wont cover any claims in 
connection with or arising from any pre-existing condition. The policy defines a pre-existing 
condition as Any condition or symptoms or signs of injury or illness, that happen or exist in 
any form before the pet was covered by this insurance.   
The claim form submitted to Direct Line describes Mr Ss dogs condition as aural 
haematoma. Direct Line declined to cover this claim on the basis it relates to a pre-existing 
condition Mr Ss dog had before the policy started. So, Ive looked into whether Direct Lines 
decision is fair and reasonable. 
  
Mr S took out pet insurance in May 2019 and I can see Direct Line refer to an entry in his 
dogs clinical notes in March 2019. This says Mr Ss dog presented with a sore left ear and 
was given osurnia. Ive looked into this and can see osurnia is used for the treatment of otitis 
externa in dogs. Theres another entry in the clinical notes in July 2019, which says OE 
again. Then in December 2019, the clinical notes say Haematoma + Otitis L ear. 
Haematoma about 1/3 of pinnae. Plan: tx OE and leave haematoma a week. RV to check 
size and OE. Then book in to sedate + needle drain haematoma.  
   
As part of their investigation, Direct Line sought the opinion of Mr Ss dogs vet. They write to 
the vet and explain they have declined the claim as they linked it to previous otitis issues 
which began in March 2019. They say theres no suggestion of any trauma and the clinical 
notes dont evidence this as a new or separate issue. They ask the vet whether they agree 
with this opinion. The vet responds and says;  
Aural haematomas develop as a result of bleeding within the pinnae. This is usually 
caused by trauma, either external or head shaking. Head shaking can be a result of 
otitis. [Mr Ss dog] hasn't been seen for an aural haematoma before but has had otitis 
recorded in his notes prior to the haematoma. There is no way to know what caused 
the initial bleed that resulted in the haematoma, he did have otitis when he was first 
seen for this.
The opinion from the vet suggests an aural haematoma can be caused by head shaking. 
And, this can be a result of otitis. The clinical notes are a contemporaneous account of Mr 
Ss dogs clinical history. And, its reasonable for an insurer to rely on the clinical notes as 
being a true and accurate representation of what was seen and heard at the time of each 
consultation. The clinical notes dont show any record of an aural haematoma prior to the 
start of the policy but it does evidence that Mr Ss dog had otitis externa. So, Ive looked into 
this further to decide whether its reasonable for Direct Line to treat the conditions as linked.
Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to look at the claim, and thats 
what Direct Line did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Direct Line to rely 
on the experts comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Direct Line sought an 
opinion from a veterinary nurse and they provided a report which refers to the treatment in 
December 2019. The veterinary nurse says the clinical notes show Mr Ss dog does have 
otitis of the left ear and this is also the ear which has the haematoma. They say the 
treatment plan shows the vet decided to treat the cause of the haematoma first  which is 
the otitis  before draining the haematoma. The veterinary nurse says, during a further visit 
in December 2019, the vet notices the left ear still has otitis and the haematoma is larger so 
its drained at that point. The veterinary nurse says otitis is the cause and says: 
The only trauma would be associated with the otitis, such as dog rubbing ear on 
floor or scratching at it, but this is due to the otitis not another external cause. There 
is no other cause in [clinical history], happy the correct decision has been made to 
relate the aural haematoma to [Mr Ss dogs] chronic [clinical history] of otitis.  
The report from the veterinary nurse shows they took into account the clinical notes relating 
to Mr Ss dog and they are of the opinion the treatment being claimed for is linked to the pre-
existing condition noted. So, taking this into account, I cant say Direct Line have acted 
unfairly in declining Mr Ss claim. Theyve relied on an experts opinion which has taken into 
consideration all material and relevant information to arrive at a view. And, the view the 
expert has formed is that Mr Ss dog had a pre-existing condition of otitis which is linked to 
the aural haematoma. I note Mr S says his dog is large and hyperactive and has a habit of 
hitting his head against objects. He says he firmly believes it was one of these occasions 
which led to the haematoma developing. I have taken this into account, but this doesnt 
persuade me Direct Line have acted unfairly. The clinical notes dont show this as being the 
cause and neither has the vet provided any evidence which suggest this was the cause.  
I note Mr S says the vet hasnt identified the exact cause of his dogs haematoma and he 
therefore feels its unfair for Direct Line to decline his claim. My role is to decide whether 
Direct Line have acted fairly and reasonably. I think Direct Line have taken fair and 
reasonable steps to consider Mr Ss claim and reached a decision based on expert opinion. 
The expert has established a link and I havent seen anything which challenges, or otherwise 
leads me to doubt, the opinion of the expert provided by Direct Line. 
 Mr S has my sympathy as I can see from his correspondence this has been a very upsetting 
event for him. My role is to decide whether Direct Line have acted fairly and reasonably. 
And, for the reasons I have set out, I think they have so I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman