DRN-2709998
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Woolwich mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage. Ill refer to the business as 
Woolwich in the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage through Woolwich in 2007. At the same time they took 
out a PPI policy covering Mr G only for unemployment for up to 720 days per successful 
claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G didnt accept our adjudicators 
view, so their complaint comes to me to for a decision. They said , in summary, they 
didnt know that only Mr G was covered under the policy or that this was a regulated 
mortgage. They said if they didnt need to have PPI, it shouldnt have been 
recommended. Further they said it might have been recommended so that the business 
received commission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed when the insurance was added, so, as well at taking into 
account what Mr and Mrs G recall from the time of sale, Ive looked at the paperwork that 
was used and signed at the time to reach my decision. Having done so, it seems to me 
that PPI was presented as an optional and separate product and it was made clear to the 
customer that they didnt have to take it out to get the mortgage. I can see that a separate 
form about PPI was completed to assess Mr and Mrs Gs needs and circumstances. So, 
overall, I think it likely that PPI was discussed separately from the mortgage application 
and Mr G opted to take PPI and thats why it was added. 
Woolwich accepts it recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs G. I have proceeded on the basis 
that they were advised to take out PPI. That means Woolwich had to consider whether the 
policy was suitable for their circumstances. Whether it was recommended or not, Woolwich 
also had to give them information that was clear, fair and not misleading about the PPI so 
that they could make an informed choice about whether it was right for their circumstances 
and they wanted to buy it. If there was a problem with the sale, then I need to consider 
whether I think they have lost out because of that.
Although only Mr G was covered under the policy, as this was a joint mortgage, I have 
taken into account Mrs Gs circumstances too when deciding this complaint.
I cant see that this policy was unsuitable for their circumstances. Ill explain why.
 Mr G appeared eligible to take out PPI given his circumstances.
 He was working at the time of sale and said he would be eligible to get around 
one years worth of sick pay through work at full pay and some at reduced pay. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Gs work related benefits and for up to 
720 days per successful claim. So, I think this couldve provided them with a 
valuable benefit to protect their home. The policy wouldve also have covered Mr 
G if he lost his job unexpectedly.
Mr G said they had savings, and family wouldve helped with their repayments. I 
accept family may have wanted to help. But help of this kind cant always be 
guaranteed when the time comes, so I havent placed much reliance on this. Mr 
and Mrs G didnt use their savings when they purchased the house, so I think it 
likely that it was important to them to retain these, at that time. I think PPI 
couldve provided them with a valuable benefit in their circumstances.
 The premium was paid monthly so they couldve cancelled PPI at any time 
without losing out financially. I cant see that the policy was unaffordable.
I think Mr and Mrs G wouldve understood that they had to pay a separate 
amount for the cover. 
I cant see that Mr G was affected by any of the main policy limitations or 
exclusions, so I dont think having more information about these things wouldve 
changed their minds and made them not buy the policy.
Its possible Woolwich couldve given them clearer information, particularly about 
the costs and benefits. But, for the reasons explained, I think they wouldve likely 
still taken out the policy because of the protection it afforded them and it 
appeared suitable for their needs and affordable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman