DRN-2161936
The complaint
Mr N complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his account. Hes also unhappy about how long 
it took Monzo to return money in his account to him. He says this caused him trouble and 
upset. And he wants Monzo to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr N had an account with Monzo. On 31 October 2019, Monzo reviewed Mr Ns account. 
Whilst it carried out the review blocked the account. This meant he wasnt able to use his 
account during that time. 
Following its review, On 24 November 2019, Monzo decided to close Mr Ns account 
immediately. At the time of closing Mr Ns balance was just under £500. Monzo told Mr N it 
would release his funds within 2-4 weeks. However, it didnt do this until 24 January 2020. 
Mr N says he had to repeatedly chase Monzo to release his money. He sent numerous 
emails between November 2019 and January 2020. But Monzo wouldnt give him any 
information. Mr N says he also fell behind with his rent. He says this caused him stress and 
inconvenience.
Monzo said it hadnt done anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Ns account. 
However, it noted that it had taken longer than the 2-4 weeks it normally takes to refund Mr 
Ns closing balance to him. And it acknowledged that this had caused Mr N some trouble 
and upset. So, it apologised and paid Mr N £140 as a gesture of goodwill.  Mr N says the 
£140 isnt enough to reflect the amount of trouble and upset hes suffered. So, he brought 
his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint. She said Monzo hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had reviewed and closed Mr Ns account. She also thought Monzos offer was 
fair. Mr N disagreed. He wants more compensation. And asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons.
Im satisfied first of all that Monzo was within its rights to review Mr Ns account and that it 
was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. Monzo also werent obliged to tell 
Mr N why it was carrying out a review of his account  as much as hed like to know. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ns account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Mr Ns notice immediately. In my view that was reasonable, given the 
concerns the bank had about how Mr N was operating his account. Ive also noted that Mr N 
had at least one other bank account. So, I think the immediate closure would have had a 
reduced impact on him. So, whilst appreciate this caused Mr N inconvenience, I cant say 
Monzo have treated him unfairly when it decided to close his account.
Monzo says it normally takes 2  4 weeks to release customers funds once an account is 
closed.  So, it should have returned Mr Ns funds to him by the latest, 24 December 2019. 
However, Mr N didnt get his money until 24 January 2020. Mr N has told us that this caused 
him a great deal of stress and inconvenience. Im satisfied that Mr N was inconvenienced 
and worried. I can see from his messages to Monzo that he was very frustrated by the delay. 
But I also note Mr N did have access to another bank account. Mr N also hasnt provided 
any evidence to show that the delay caused him financial difficulty. And I think this is 
relevant in considering what a fair compensation figure is. 
Monzo has accepted that it took longer than usual to complete to get Mr Ns money back to 
him. The bank apologised and paid Mr N £140 as a gesture of goodwill. The investigator 
thought that the offer of £140 was fair in the circumstances. And whilst I appreciate, Mr N 
wont agree, I share that assessment, and dont therefore think it necessary for me to award 
any more. 
In summary, I appreciate of course, that Monzos actions caused Mr N trouble and upset. 
So, I realise Mr N will be disappointed by my decision. But Im satisfied Monzo has done 
enough to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Monzo Bank Ltd to do anything more to resolve 
Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman