DRN-3636077
The complaint
Mr D complains that Advantage Insurance Company Plc and its agent provided poor service 
after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. Hes represented by his father, Mr D2.
What happened
Mr D  was involved in a non-fault accident in March 2020, when a car was driven into the 
drivers side of his vehicle, causing substantial damage. Advantages garage, firm A, said  
the cost of repairing the car would exceed its market value. Mr D2 told Advantage and firm A 
that Mr D wanted to retain the car. He inspected it after that with Mr D at firm As premises 
and says it was in the same condition as when hed last seen it  immaculate, apart from the 
accident damage. The next day it was collected from firm A by a salvage agent (firm C) and 
taken to its yard for storage. Mr D was worried about the car going to a salvage yard, and he 
later had to pay £90 to have the car delivered home.
When the car was returned by firm C, Mr D2 found that there was new damage to its interior 
and extra damage to its exterior. The aerial was missing, and the drivers door was now 
secured in place with cable ties. Plastic trim had been snapped off a door and there were 
scratches, chips and scuff marks that werent there before. Mr D2 sent the photos hed taken 
when the car was returned by firm C to Advantage (and to firm C). Advantage didnt uphold 
his complaint. It said he hadnt shown that firm C had caused any extra damage. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ds complaint. She thought it was reasonable for 
Advantage to move the car into storage with firm C until the claim was settled, in line with the 
policys terms and conditions. She noted that Mr D had asked to retain the car and that hed 
been allowed to do so. She looked at photos taken by Mr D2 before the car was collected by 
firm A and those firm A took. She also reviewed the photos taken by firm C when it collected 
the car from firm A, plus those taken by Mr D when the car was returned. She didnt think 
there was enough evidence to show that firm C had caused any damage. 
Mr D2 said if any damage was done to the car after it left Mr Ds control, Advantage was 
responsible for it. He asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman. I issued a 
provisional decision, upholding the complaint, along the following lines:
I thought it was reasonable for Advantage to move the car to firm Cs premises, and 
that the main issue was whether there was evidence that further damage was done 
to the car after Mr D gave control of it to firm A (and hence to firm C).
I noted that Mr D2 had said firm As technicians treated the car with respect. When 
he told them the drivers door hinge was broken, they entered the car from the other 
side. I also noted that the photos taken by firm As engineer showed the drivers door 
and the aerial still in place. But photos taken by firm C later on showed the drivers 
door open and hanging at an angle, secured with cable ties, with the aerial missing, 
and various scuffs and scratches that Mr D said werent there previously. Mr D2 took 
photos after the car was returned by firm C (having not been given the chance to 
inspect the car with firm Cs operatives, as hed requested). I noted that those photos 
showed damage to the inside of the drivers doorframe, plus missing trim. 
I thought the evidence showed without doubt that extra damage was done to Mr Ds 
car after Advantages agents took control of it, and that Advantage was responsible 
for it. As I wasnt able to determine the cost of the extra damage, I said Advantage 
should appoint an independent engineer to carry out a review and that it should then 
pay Mr D whatever sum the engineer considered was due. I also said Advantage 
should pay Mr D £250 for distress and inconvenience. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Advantage accepted them. Mr D 
also accepted them, although Mr D2 said he or Mr D would like the chance to speak to the 
independent engineer as part of the review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional findings, theres no reason to change them. I would 
add only that I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr D or Mr D2 to be given the chance 
to speak to the independent engineer, and I can see no reason why they shouldnt be able to 
do so. I think Advantage would have offered them that opportunity anyway.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to arrange for an independent engineer to carry out a review (including speaking to 
Mr D or Mr D2). Advantage should pay any costs the engineer thinks arose from the extra 
damage (plus interest, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date the car was returned to 
the date of settlement). It should also pay Mr D £250 for distress and inconvenience.  
If Advantage thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr D how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax 
deduction certificate if required, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman