DRN-3029120
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2010. Mrs W says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Tesco made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Mrs W applied for her credit card online. Tesco has 
provided screenshots of all the pages Mrs W had to complete. There are separate pages 
for PPI which make it clear the policy is optional. Mrs W couldnt have progressed 
through her internet credit card application without making a choice about whether to 
take the PPI. So I think Mrs W knew the PPI was optional and chose to buy it.
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs W enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs W  for example she 
wasnt affected by any significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems and pre-existing medical conditions were covered, too. It also looks like it was 
affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mrs W would have declined the cover had Tesco done 
anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs W would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Tesco should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Tesco doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman