DRN-3778602
The complaint
Mr C complains about the delays caused by The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) in 
refunding an overpayment following the redemption of his mortgage.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions are:
TMW accepted it provided Mr C with poor service and delayed the processing of the 
refund for the overpayment, so I dont need to make any findings on what went wrong 
and why, I simply need to decide what needs to be done to put things right. 
Mr C said he felt a fair amount of compensation was £1500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him. Whilst the delay didnt have any direct financial loss for 
Mr C he said it effected his everyday life and how he had to manage his bills and 
living costs. He said he also spent a lot of time having to chase for updates. Ive 
thought about this, but Mr C hasnt suffered a direct financial loss, and so all were 
thinking about is the level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. 
If Mr C had been updated correctly it would have reduced the amount of time he 
needed to chase the refund of the overpayment and its progress. He had to make a 
number of calls and on most occasions, he wasnt provided the right information on 
why the payment was taking so long. This would certainly have caused him some 
frustration and upset.
There were also clearly delays in processing the refund but as mentioned above if 
TMW had correctly updated Mr C he would have known it could take up to 20 
working days for the payment to be processed. I appreciate the delay was longer 
than this and rather than receive the payment by 29 July 2022, Mr C didnt get the 
payment until 17 August 2022  some two and a half weeks later than TMWs normal 
processing times.
Whilst I understand the frustration caused to Mr C  it was always likely that the 
refund wouldnt be processed immediately, so having considered all the 
circumstances and the level of compensation weve awarded in other cases with 
similar circumstances, Im satisfied the £250 compensation and refund of any call 
charges offered by TMW is fair and reasonable in this case. 
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with my decision and I know he wanted more, 
but this service normally awards modest levels of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, and TMWs offer is in line with what Id expect it to offer in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc should pay Mr C £250 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience if it hasnt done so already. 
The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc should also pay any call charges Mr C incurred in chasing the 
refund of the overpayment with it, should it be provided evidence of the charges by Mr C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman