DRN-3416426
The complaint
This complaint is about problems Mr and Mrs W experienced when they redeemed their 
mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
In July 2021, Barclays confirmed the final redemption figure for Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage. 
They paid off the amount through their solicitor in August 2021. But Mr and Mrs W were 
asked to make a final payment of £717.50 to clear the outstanding balance on their account, 
which after some discussion, they did. Shortly after, a direct debit was also claimed for the 
sum of £833.44. Both sums had been requested in error, so Barclays refunded £1550.91 to 
settle Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage account. 
The next day, Barclays became aware that the direct debit payment of £833.44 had not 
cleared on the mortgage account. This meant Mr and Mrs W needed to return part of the 
refund they had received, because they had been refunded for a payment that had never 
actually been made. Barclays advised that the account would close when the refund of 
£833.44 was returned. 
Mr and Mrs W attempted to repay the amount several times, but as their account was 
already showing as closed on Barclays system, the payments were returned on each 
occasion. Mr and Mrs W want reassurance that the problem has finally been resolved and 
would like compensation as they say the situation caused stress and anxiety, resulting in 
sleepless nights.
Barclays looked into Mr and Mrs W s concerns and apologised for any confusion caused. 
Barclays decided to write off the outstanding amount and paid them a total of £250 in 
compensation on top. Barclays has confirmed the account is now fully closed.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ws concerns, but they didnt think Barclays needed 
to do anything more to resolve the complaint. As Mr and Mrs W disagreed, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W have asked that I speak to them before deciding the case. Our investigator 
told Mr and Mrs W that ombudsmen generally dont speak to either party, and gave them the 
opportunity to make any submissions over the phone with them instead. Mr and Mrs W 
chose not to do so, and instead sent an email with their comments. Im satisfied I already 
have all the information and evidence I need to reach a fair decision  both sides have made 
their points clearly. Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied I dont need to speak to Mr and 
Mrs W to fairly decide this complaint.
Barclays has accepted responsibility for all of the problems Mr and Mrs W say they 
experienced, so I dont think its necessary to comment on each mistake further. That 
means, in this complaint, my role is to consider the impact of the problems Mr and Mrs W 
experienced. And to decide whether Barclays has done enough to put things right.
Barclays has confirmed the mortgage account closed with a zero balance on 1 March 2022. 
The Charge was released the same day and a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor to 
advise them of this. So, Im satisfied the account is now closed and no further action will be 
required from Mr and Mrs W. 
There was around seven months delay in the account closing and I understand why Mr and 
Mrs W would have been concerned about this. But, I note the delay didnt affect their credit 
file in anyway or prevent them from obtaining a mortgage elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs W made a number of phone calls and payments in attempting to correct the 
mistakes. And the letters they received were confusing at times. So, I understand their 
frustration, but I havent found that there was any lasting detriment to Mr and Mrs W, other 
than the inconvenience of trying to resolve the matter over a few months.  
It was appropriate for Barclays to offer a sum of compensation in the circumstances and Ive 
thought about the amount offered carefully. Considering everything, I think Barclays has 
already compensated Mr and Mrs W sufficiently. I say this because Mr and Mrs W were 
refunded more than they should have been, so they would have had to pay Barclays 
£833.44 if Barclays hadnt decided to write the sum off. On top of this, Barclays awarded 
them compensation of £250, so in total, Barclays has paid £1083.44 to Mr and Mrs W. This 
is more than we would usually award under the circumstances Ive explained above. So, I 
dont think Barclays needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman