DRN-3066472
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) acted unreasonably by blocking 
his account cards 
What happened
Mr G has been a long-standing customer of Halifaxs and holds several different accounts. 
He attempted to buy a £30,000 investment bond in a renewable energy company by 
transferring three payments of £10,000 to the company over different days. This was due to 
Halifaxs £10,000 daily limit per account when using telephone banking. However, Halifaxs 
fraud detection systems flagged up that the first transaction was potentially fraudulent. 
Halifax told Mr G he might be able to make the transaction in full in a branch with additional 
identification. Mr G said he couldnt get to a branch, so he continued to use Halifaxs 
telephone banking service. 
This resulted in Mr G having to be transferred to the payment verification team on different  
occasions in an attempt to complete the process. He also experienced further problems  
including payments apparently being taken from the wrong account and the energy company 
returning payments already made. I understand the energy company later suggested Mr G 
use a different account due to some of the problems he was having. 
At Halifaxs suggestion, (and to avoid continued problems) Mr G eventually went into a 
branch to make a further payment to the energy company around which time he found out 
that his sole account cards had been blocked. With the help of his wife (who I understand 
used her joint account card as identification to enable him to move money between 
accounts) Mr G successfully made a payment from their joint account and Halifax ordered 
him a new account card. However, he says that shortly after he found out that his joint 
account card was also blocked. Mr G says he and his wife later received text messages to 
say that there was suspicious movement on their accounts, so they were advised to contact 
the fraud department. He says that it took two hours and much persuasion to unblock them 
and he feels there is something seriously wrong when a bank can do what it likes to a 
customers money under the pretext of security. 
Mr G complained to Halifax. It acknowledged that its security measures can cause 
inconvenience. However, it said its main priority was to safeguard Mr Gs account. That said, 
Halifax recognised that Mr G had spent an excessive amount of time on the phone (largely 
due to waiting times when needing to speak to the payment verification team), so it gave him 
£50 in respect of the inconvenience that caused.  It also said it would be happy to review 
things again if Mr G had incurred additional call charges. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he complained to our service. Amongst other 
things, he said that the £50 payment Halifax had given him didnt reflect the seriousness of 
the situation and the trauma and inconvenience hed been through. In particular, Mr G said 
he was worried about whether hed be able to pay his bills owing to his account cards being 
blocked. He also felt that Halifax didnt listen to him when he explained that hed done the 
necessary checks to satisfy himself that the energy company was legitimate. Mr G pointed 
out hed bought a bond from the same company before and had received the associated 
certificate. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly. He 
thought it had given a reasonable explanation about why it felt Mr G might have fallen victim 
to investment fraud. And, as the energy companys website didnt mention options for buying 
an investment bond, the investigator said he could see why Halifaxs concerns increased. 
And, whilst the investigator recognised that Halifaxs action may have inconvenienced Mr G, 
he thought it was fair for it to prioritise his account security.   
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators assessment and made a number of detailed points 
in response. However, he said he rejected the assessment on two key points:
That the investigator felt it was acceptable to block a customers account without 
justification. Mr G appeared to accept that Halifax carrying out due diligence at the 
first suggestion of suspicious activity was reasonable, however, to give me the third 
degree every time was unacceptable.
The investigators and Halifaxs conclusion that as the company from which he was 
trying to buy the bond from didnt advertise that service (the selling of bonds) it must 
be a scam;
As Mr G didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G feels very badly treated by Halifax. And hes made a number of detailed points to 
explain why he doesnt think Halifax was justified in taking the action that it did. Hes also 
explained the main basis upon which hes rejected our investigators assessment. In this 
decision Im not going to address everything that Mr Gs said. Although I can assure him that 
Ive carefully considered the points hes made. And Ive also listened to a number of 
recordings of phone calls between Mr G and Halifax, so Im aware of the points he raised 
with Halifax. Instead, in line with the informal nature of our service, Im going to focus on 
what appear to be Mr Gs outstanding concerns.
Mr G clearly feels that Halifax was wrong to block his account cards. In order to address that 
point, its relevant to consider the events leading up to it. I can see that Mr G moved funds 
between his accounts, with the intention of making three separate payments of £10,000 on 
consecutive days. But Halifaxs fraud detection systems triggered an alert, which meant Mr 
G had to go through additional security checks. 
Whilst clearly not happy, Mr G appeared to accept additional checks might be needed the 
first time around. But from the recordings Ive listened to, I can hear him making it absolutely 
clear to Halifax that he wasnt willing to undergo such checks each time he wanted to make 
a similar payment  not least because he said he was spending his own money and had 
done his own due diligence to check the energy company was legitimate. And I can hear Mr 
G telling Halifax that if it couldnt guarantee he wouldnt have similar problems, hed even 
consider closing all of his accounts. I think that demonstrates Mr Gs strength of feeling 
about this issue  especially as hed been a Halifax customer for many years. Hes since 
described this as a matter of principle.
Its probably worth saying here that its not for me to tell Halifax how its fraud detection 
systems should work. Thats entirely a matter of commercial judgement for Halifax. But I can 
consider whether it treated Mr G fairly and reasonably in his particular circumstances. 
It seems to me that having already asked him a number of additional security questions, Mr 
G probably expected Halifax to intervene or over-ride the system in some way, so he didnt 
have to go through the same process again. And that might explain why he felt it didnt listen to him when he did have to undergo further security checks, especially as hed tried to 
assure Halifax that the energy company was genuine. I dont think Mr Gs position is an 
unreasonable one. But like a lot of banks fraud detections systems, as Mr G is clearly 
aware, Halifax uses an automated system. That means that transactions are selected 
automatically if an alert is triggered to suggest there might be some fraudulent activity. I 
wouldnt expect Halifax to explain every instance where an alert might be triggered, as thats 
commercially sensitive, but from the conversations Ive heard, I think it did try to explain to 
Mr G that it can happen for many different reasons, one of which might be because he 
hadnt apparently set up a new payee on one of his accounts for some time.
These systems are intended to detect potential fraud whether thats external or internal. So, 
in the same way that an individual staff member doesnt decide when to carry out further 
checks, theyre also unlikely to be able to over-ride the system to avoid an additional check 
once an alert is triggered. That being the case, I think Halifax staff tried to be helpful by 
putting notes on the system when an alert had been triggered, so that there was at least a 
record of what Mr G was attempting to do and why. But, realistically, I think all those notes 
could do was assist other staff members in understanding the background to the matter if 
another alert was generated, causing Mr G to have to get in touch again. And, importantly, 
despite Mr Gs insistence that he shouldnt have to go through similar checks in future, this 
was ultimately a decision for Halifax to make. 
I think Halifax staff tried to manage his expectations by saying it couldnt guarantee that 
further checks wouldnt be required. I can fully appreciate why it was inconvenient for Mr G 
to have to be transferred to the payment verification team whenever an alert was triggered. I 
say that in particular because there was no doubt about Mr Gs identity. But, given the 
context Ive set out above, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong. 
Im also mindful that Halifax told Mr G fairly early on that he could go into a branch with 
additional identification and attempt to complete the payment transfer in one go. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr G said he couldnt get to the branch - and his preference was clearly to use 
telephone banking - I thought it was a reasonable suggestion on Halifaxs part. And whilst I 
accept theres no guarantee, it seems likely that in the event Mr G still experienced 
difficulties in branch, he may have been able to sort them out much easier and quicker. In 
any event, Mr G opted to complete the payment transfer via telephone banking. 
And that meant attempting to make payments of £10,000 over different days. The limit of 
£10,000 is there for security reasons. And Mr G couldve looked into other options such as 
CHAPS payments, considering the amount he was transferring. However, I think this would 
likely have required visiting a branch and I understand Mr G didnt initially want to do this.  
There were other issues too which possibly triggered alerts such as attempts to transfer 
similarly large payments from different accounts fairly close to each other; payments 
apparently being taken from the wrong account; or payments being returned by the energy 
company (although I appreciate Mr G thinks this demonstrates the company was genuine as 
he said a potential fraudster is unlikely to put money back in an account). All of this 
amounted to a fair number of high value transactions within a short space of time. Looking at 
Mr Gs account statements, this doesnt appear to be usual activity for him. And given some 
of the problems, the energy company apparently suggested that Mr G might want to make a 
payment to a different account to the one first used. I think that in itself is the type of thing 
that could trigger an alert. 
At Halifaxs suggestion, Mr G ended up going to a branch in any event to make the rest of 
the payment. However, it seems Mr G wasnt able to do what he wanted straight away, as he 
found out his sole account card had been blocked. Mr G says his wife was able to use her 
joint account card as identification, which then allowed him to transfer money between accounts and make a payment to the energy company from their joint account. Shortly after, 
however, Mr G found out that his joint account card had also been blocked. All of this caused 
difficulties when Mr G tried to pay a credit card bill to another company. Whilst it seems that 
Mr G was later able to pay the bill, he says he and his wife later received text messages to 
say there was suspicious movement on their accounts. 
I can fully appreciate why this caused Mr G further concern. However, Im also mindful of the 
activity on the account up to this point. So, when Mr G then made a further, high value, high 
risk payment from a different account (their joint account) I can see how that might have 
triggered an alert on Halifaxs fraud detection system. And whilst I dont think Halifax has 
been explicit about the cause of the card blocks - and staff on the phone didnt appear to 
have any conclusive answers either  it seems likely to have happened, in part, due to the 
pattern of activity that was clearly already causing a concern.  
The terms of Mr Gs account say (amongst other things):
When can we stop you making payments?
We can stop or suspend your ability to make payments using any device or security details if 
we reasonably consider it necessary because of:
suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of a device or your security details; 
When we can refuse to act on an instruction?
we can refuse to make a payment or allow a cash withdrawal if the payment 
seems unusual compared with the way you normally use your account, in 
which case we may investigate further, for example by calling you.
I think these terms make clear that Halifax can suspend the customers ability to make 
payments or temporarily stop the authorisation of a payment where it suspects fraud or 
detects unusual activity. As Ive indicated, attempts to pay out several payments of £10,000 
in quick succession doesnt seem particularly usual for Mr Gs account. Added to that is the 
fact that Halifax considered these types of payments high risk anyway. So, given these 
factors and what the account terms say, I think Halifax was entitled to take action if it thought 
it necessary. And I dont think it would be fair of me, given the concerns it clearly had, to say 
Halifax was wrong to do so.
Im also mindful that, had Halifax not taken the steps it did and Mr G had fallen victim to 
fraud (thankfully that wasnt the case), I may well have been considering a very different 
complaint from him. So, whilst I very much appreciate that Mr G doesnt think Halifax had 
reasonable justification, the fact he doesnt agree with its justification isnt enough to say 
Halifax was at fault. 
Mr Gs also taken issue with Halifaxs and our investigators view that as the energy 
company didnt advertise investment bonds on its website, it must be a scam. Halifax clearly 
had concerns that Mr G might have become a victim of fraud. And its explained that it felt 
the activity on Mr Gs account was consistent with what it sees in cases leading to 
investment loss. Halifax wasnt saying it was a scam, it was saying it had concerns. That 
being the case, given its general responsibilities to protect Mr Gs account and what the 
account terms say, it didnt seem unreasonable for Halifax to look into things further. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr Gs point that this kind of information isnt always visible on company 
websites, I imagine not being able to see evidence of the company selling the kinds of bonds 
Mr G was looking to buy probably heightened Halifaxs existing concerns. 
I dont under-estimate Mr Gs strength of feeling about everything that happened. But, after 
very careful consideration, for all of the reasons Ive outlined, Im not persuaded that Halifax 
did anything wrong. I appreciate this will probably come as disappointing news to Mr G, but 
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ultimately, all banks have fraud prevention systems in place. They are by their very nature complex and can often be inconvenient in individual 
circumstances. Of course, its open to Mr G to consider moving his accounts if he feels that 
Halifaxs systems are too robust for him. Although I cant say that he wont then experience 
similar issues elsewhere. This is ultimately a matter for Mr G to decide. 
Im mindful though that Mr G ended up spending more time waiting to speak to Halifax than 
he might otherwise have expected. I think Halifaxs £50 payment fairly recognises the 
inconvenience that caused. And I think it was fair for Halifax to say it would consider the 
matter again if Mr G incurred any additional telephone costs. He may wish to give Halifax 
further evidence if he hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For all of the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman