The complaint
Mr F complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited hasn't refunded to him the payments 
that he made for a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Mr F under a hire purchase agreement with Startline - but
it was discovered that the car had been involved in an accident so he returned the
car to the dealer which refunded his deposit and the agreement was ended;
he asked Startline to refund to him the monthly payments that he'd made under the
agreement but it said that the part-exchange was agreed with the dealer prior to its
involvement so it was unable to investigate his complaint;
the dealer had accepted Mr F's rejection of the car and he hadn't part-exchanged it;
Mr F first contacted the dealer about issues with the car within two weeks of it being
supplied to him and it was discovered that it had been in an accident before it was
supplied to him and the issues weren't remedied;
I consider that the car wasn't of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F and
that he should have been allowed to reject the car when he first contacted the dealer
about the issues with it;
Mr F has made some monthly payments under the agreement to Startline for the car
but I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for it to
refund those payments to him, with interest; and
I've seen no evidence to show that Startline has recorded any adverse information
about the agreement on Mr F's credit file - but, if it has done so, I consider that it
should remove that information.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Startline to refund to Mr 
F the monthly payments that he's made under the agreement, with interest, and that it 
should remove any adverse information about the agreement that it's recorded on his credit 
file.
DRN-1424246My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and I order Startline Motor 
Finance Limited to:
1. Refund to Mr F all of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement.
2. Pay interest on those amounts at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of each
payment to the date of settlement.
3. Remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement that it's
recorded on Mr Fs credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Startline must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he 
asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman