DRN-4505848
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim she 
made on her motor insurance policy and the quality of repairs.
Admiral are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Much of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. But as Admiral accept they are accountable for the actions 
of their agents, in my decision, any reference to Admiral should be interpreted as also 
covering the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Miss M and Admiral. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Miss M had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. Following a road accident she made a 
claim on her policy in August 2022. Admiral accepted the claim and a repair was arranged 
through an approved repairer. When Miss A eventually received her car back, she was 
unhappy with the quality of the repairs and raised this as an issue with Admiral.
Admiral arranged for the car to be looked at again by an Independent Assessor and the 
repairer, but as Miss M remained unhappy  she raised a complaint. She said that she 
wanted Admiral to refund costs she incurred as a result of how they handled the repair, 
recognition of delays, depreciation compensation, compensation for stress caused and 
further damage such as mould to be put right.
Admiral partially upheld her complaint. They offered £600 compensation, including £100 
towards a professional valet. Miss M then referred the complaint to our Service for an 
independent review. Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it 
be upheld. As Miss M remained unhappy, the complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings. As the deadline for 
responses has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised (over 25 complaint points), my decision only 
addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. Therefore I 
wont be addressing each and every complaint point individually. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
Both parties have taken the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision with further 
comments. 
Most importantly, Miss M has now told our Service that she no longer owns the car. Shes 
told us she sold it for parts in June for less than the market value, that it was owned by 
someone else between June and the August MOT and they may have carried out repairs. 
Its disappointing that our Service wasnt notified of the sale before the complaint was 
referred for a decision, given that Miss M was in regular contact with our Investigator  
particularly throughout June. This is important information and impacts the direction as 
previously set out  as any Ombudsman direction must be workable. Miss M no longer holds 
an insurable interest in the car as a result of selling it  so Ive amended my direction below.
Miss M also raised issue with Admiral not complying with her SAR request. Any concerns 
she has would be best directed to the Information Commissioners office. https://ico.org.uk/     
Im satisfied that I had all the information I needed to reach a fair and reasonable outcome 
here.
Ive noted the videos Miss M has sent us about engine/power issues with the car. The 
Independent report didnt support that these were as a result of the accident and she was 
given a fair opportunity by Admiral to obtain expert supporting evidence of her own to 
support all the issues shes described. Their offer to consider further evidence  if you would 
like us to consider these points any further you will need to provide us with evidence from a 
reputable garage/expert confirming these issues are related to the incident, along with an 
estimate for the required repairs remains fair and appropriate. 
Admiral responded to the provisional decision and have said that that whilst they would 
relook at the multimedia unit, should their investigation conclude that the damage to it wasnt 
caused by the accident or was pre-existing, they shouldnt be responsible for rectifying the 
issue. I agree this is fair, but given what Miss M has told us about no longer owning the car 
and that the new owner may have carried out repairs at their own expense, it seems that it 
would be extremely difficult for any inspection to now take place. 
Miss M has referred to the length of time taken for repair impacting her warranty which 
expired. But as our Investigator explained, world-wide supply chain issues are outside of the 
control of Admiral. This means I also wont be commenting further on Miss Ms comments 
about potentially selling the car when its value was higher. This is a hypothetical scenario 
that didnt happen.
Our Service are not car experts and its not our role to decide what damage the car has 
suffered or when. My role when considering this claim is to determine whether Admiral have 
fairly and reasonably considered the claim.
Its not in dispute that this claim didnt progress as well as either party would have liked. 
Admiral have conceded as much by making an offer in response to the complaint.
It appears that an eye test/visual inspection was the extent of their initial investigations here - 
rather than a proper diagnostic test. For example - the radiator hose issue not coming to light 
until the car had been stripped back. That said, Ive to weigh this up against the damage 
being claimed for when considering if it was proportionate. On balance, I conclude a more 
thorough inspection should have been carried out upon booking in. I find that had this 
happened, many of the later issues could have been avoided or easily clarified when they 
later arose. Ive then gone on to consider is whether Miss M has lost out because of this 
failing.
Its positive that when Miss M made Admiral aware of the issues following the return of her 
car, they had the car looked at by an Independent Assessor (IA).
I note that The IA recommended that Admiral appoint a car electrician to look at the 
multimedia unit. This is separate to the issue of the radio not working which was noted when 
the car was booked in. Ive seen no evidence that this happened and as they conclude that its not inconceivable that this fault could have been caused by the repair  this needed to be 
looked into further. Its disappointing to see in Admirals final response latter theyve said the 
following in relation to this point:
I can confirm that the issues identified with the electrics and starter motor were 
submitted to Admiral for review. Our inhouse engineer advised that that these issues 
were due to wear and tear and so were deemed unrelated to the accident and would 
not be covered under your claim. Therefore, the approved repairer was correct in not 
carrying out these repairs.
The purpose of the IA report was to establish what Admiral needed to repair and what wasnt 
caused by the accident. Admiral should have followed the IAs recommendations and not 
referred the disputed point back in house again. Previously Id said if this issue (the 
multimedia unit) still remained, Admiral would need to arrange for it to be rectified or, if Miss 
M had it repaired - reimburse her for her outlay. As explained above, Miss M no longer owns 
the car. This means she doesnt retain an insurable interest and any impact of the 
multimedia unit not being fixed is now different to my previous consideration. 
As the IAs report didnt conclude that the other damage to Miss Ms car was caused by the 
accident or the attempted repairs, I found that in the absence of other independent 
supporting evidence from Miss M, Admiral didnt need to do anything further (with the 
exception of the multimedia unit). Their offer to consider further evidence  if you would like 
us to consider these points any further you will need to provide us with evidence from a 
reputable garage/expert confirming these issues are related to the incident, along with an 
estimate for the required repairs was fair and appropriate.
Other points raised
Ive noted Miss Ms comments about the feel of the car when driving - linked to the 
performance of the suspension. But the IA report doesnt support her view. If she can 
produce supporting evidence that this was caused by the accident then Admiral should 
reconsider that evidence.
Miss M also raised issue with the condition of her tyres when the car was returned. Its to be 
expected that some degradation of tyres may well take place when the car is not in use. This 
is unfortunate, but Ive also noted that an MOT test dated 23 January 2023 (shortly after 
Miss M got the car back) is recorded as a pass with three tyres close to the legal limit. The 
car then failed an MOT in August 2023 because of a front light not working, but then passed 
once that fault was rectified. I wont be requiring Admiral to do anything further in relation to 
this point about the tyres. 
Miss M has said that since she got the car back shes been unable to drive it at times and its 
had to stay parked up. But the MOT records show that between the January and August 
MOTs, the car travelled seven thousand miles. This doesnt support what Miss M has said 
about the car sitting rotting on her drive way. I note Miss Ms recent comments about selling 
the car, but I find it less likely that the new owner covered 7000 miles from getting the car in 
June (and arranging the repairs shes suggested) and the MOT in August. On balance, I find 
that a fair proportion of the mileage increase between January and August will likely have 
taken place before she sold the car.  
Miss M says that the car should have been written off. But that would be a decision for 
Admiral to make and Ive not seen sufficiently persuasive supporting evidence that theyve 
acted unfairly in not doing so.
The offer madeAdmiral made the following offer in their final response letter:
£350.00 for distress and inconvenience caused.
 £50.00 for delay in dealing with your complaint.
 £100.00 as a gesture of goodwill to cover the cost of a professional valet
 £100.00 cash in lieu to cover cost of repairing the issue with the nearside front wing 
plastic liner, which was picked up during the independent assessment (if this does 
not cover the cost, please let us know)
I find that the £350 offered doesnt go far enough to recognise the impact of their actions of 
Miss M. I increase this compensation to £450. This will mean a total of £700 compensation 
for Miss M.
My previous intended direction
Any direction I set must be workable in reality. The previous impact on Miss M of the 
multimedia unit not working was she didnt have it functioning in her car. Ive increased the 
compensation for trouble and upset caused by Admirals actions. 
With the new information shes told us about (selling the car), the impact is different as she 
alleges that this issue (along with the other car issues shes described) meant she had to sell 
the car for less than market value. 
As it seems unlikely Admiral will now be able to inspect or rectify the multimedia unit issue 
(due to the sale of the car Miss M has told us about), Miss M would need to show Admiral 
sufficiently supporting evidence that, as a direct result of the multimedia unit issue she had 
no option other than to take a lower selling price for her car and suffered a direct, 
consequential loss. 
Ultimately, the sale Miss M has told us about is a complaint event or further loss after the 
date of her final response letter and referral to our Service. Therefore it would need to be 
raised as a new issue with Admiral. 
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, my direction is limited to Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited needing to pay Miss M an additional £100 compensation in recognition of how they 
handled this claim. This means a total of £700 compensation including any sums already 
paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman