DRN-3084886
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Yorkshire Building Society (trading as Chelsea Building Society 
but referred to here as YBS) wrongly disclosed information about his mortgage account to a 
third party without his consent. To settle the complaint, Mr T would like YBS to offer him 
compensation and review its processes to avoid this happening to other customers.
What happened
The events giving rise to the complaint can be summarised briefly. Mr T and his former 
partner, Miss J, had a joint mortgage with YBS. Their relationship had ended and an 
application was made for a transfer of the mortgage account from their joint names into the 
sole name of Mr T. Mr T also wanted to borrow additional funds of £27,800, which I am told 
by Mr T was to purchase Miss Js interest in the property.  
In order to release the funds to Mr Ts solicitors, YBS needed a Certificate of Title (CoT). The 
solicitors tried to send this by fax but were told on 24 November 2020 that there was a 
problem with YBSs fax machine, and so the CoT was sent by email and the funds were 
released on 27 November 2020. 
YBSs process was that the transfer would not be completed until it had received a 
Certificate of Completion (CoC). However, YBS didnt receive the CoC from the solicitors 
after the funds were released. YBS was not, therefore, told that the transfer had completed.
Because the account was still in joint names, a letter dated 15 December 2020 about a 
missed direct debit on 11 December 2020 was sent to both Mr T and Miss J. In addition, 
the annual statement for the year ending 31 December 2020 was sent to both Mr T and 
Miss J in early January 2020.
After receiving the letter of 15 December 2020 Mr T queried with YBS why Miss J was still 
on the mortgage. YBS confirmed that the CoC hadnt been received and that the transfer 
couldnt be completed until this was received. Mr T was unhappy about this, as hed 
assumed the mortgage had been transferred into his name in November 2020. He 
complained to YBS about a data breach.
It wasnt until 5 January 2020 that YBS received the CoC and was able to complete the 
transfer of equity in its records.
In response to Mr Ts complaint, YBS explained the reasons why the account had remained 
in joint names until 5 January 2021. YBS paid Mr T compensation, initially £40, made up of 
£15 for telephone calls and £25 for inconvenience. YBS later offered Mr T a further £50, 
made up of £10 for his time and £40 for inconvenience.
Unhappy with this, Mr T complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He explained that Mr Ts 
solicitors had been aware from the instructions sent by YBS that completion of the transfer of 
equity wouldnt be concluded until the CoC was received. In addition, the solicitors knew 
there was a problem with YBS receiving faxes. The solicitors were unable to provide any 
evidence to show theyd successfully faxed the CoC to YBS on 27 November 2020. 
The investigator was satisfied that, because Miss J had remained on the account until 
5 January 2021, YBS had done nothing wrong in sending the annual statement to her, as 
well as correspondence about the missed direct debit.
Overall, the investigator didnt think YBS had done anything wrong. Mr T disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that YBS was aware of a potential 
data protection breach when he spoke to it on 21 December 2021 and had the opportunity to 
hold off sending the annual statement.
Mr T also thinks YBSs process of dealing with transfers of equity is flawed. Mr T says that 
his solicitor has told him the CoC was sent, yet the investigator is simply accepting YBSs 
stance that it wasnt received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate these events arose out of unhappy circumstances, and that this was a difficult 
time for Mr T. However, after reviewing everything thats happened, I dont think YBS is at 
fault here.
Ill explain first that I dont have any power to tell YBS what processes it must have in place 
or how it should conduct its business. Thats a matter for its own commercial judgment, 
subject to the supervision of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Ive noted the 
points Mr T has made about what he perceives as flaws in YBSs process and how he thinks 
these should be remedied, but thats not something Ill be commenting on.
I note that in the letter sent to Mr T confirming acceptance of the transfer (a copy of which 
was also sent to the solicitors), it states that YBS will be able to change the names on the 
mortgage account when, amongst other things, the solicitors have completed and returned 
the CoC. Im satisfied the solicitors were aware on 24 November 2020 that there was a 
problem with YBSs receipt of faxes, and so they had to email the CoT to YBS in order for 
the additional funds to be released.
In this regard, although Mr T says that YBS knew Miss J had been paid the funds, YBS was 
at arms length from this part of the transaction. YBS would not have any knowledge of the 
date when Miss J received the funds to purchase her interest in the property as this was a 
transaction between her and Mr T. So at this point, as far as YBS was aware, the account 
was still in joint names, with the transfer pending.
I am told by Mr T that his solicitors have told him that they faxed the CoC to YBS on 
27 November 2020 but, inexplicably, it appears they failed to retain the confirmation sheet 
which would show that this had been successfully received by YBS. The solicitors already 
knew there was a problem with YBS receiving faxes. There is also nothing in YBSs 
contemporaneous notes to show it ever received the CoC on 27 November 2020. In the 
circumstances, I am not persuaded that the solicitors successfully faxed the CoC to YBS on 
27 November 2020 as claimed.
Because the CoC wasnt received, the account remained in joint names until the CoC had 
been sent by the solicitors in January 2021.  Given this, Im satisfied that YBS did nothing 
wrong in corresponding with both account holders until the time the account was transferred from the joint names of Mr T and Miss J into Mr Ts sole name, which happened on 
5 January 2021, in line with YBSs process for such a transaction.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied YBS isnt required to pay any further compensation over 
and above the £90 it has already paid Mr T for inconvenience and for his time. If Mr T is 
concerned that his personal data has been breached, or that it might be in the future, he is, 
of course, free to take this up with the Information Commissioners Office, which is the 
organisation responsible for overseeing data compliance in England & Wales.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman