DRN-3574152
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
After receiving a fraud notification from Lloyds, Mr M reviewed historical transactions on his 
account. At that point he noticed a large number of transactions that he didnt recognise. 
Some of them were made using the genuine card and Personal Identification Number (PIN), 
some of them were payments made via the internet to different merchants. 
For ease, Ill refer to the groups of transactions as: Chip and Pin / Internet A / Internet B. The 
full details of the disputed transactions have already been detailed in the investigators 
review and I dont propose to repeat them here.
Mr M raised these unidentified payments with Lloyds who looked into what had happened. 
Mr M explained that hed allowed a family member to use his card details to make various 
purchases on his behalf. 
Lloyds couldnt find how the card details had been compromised and declined to make a 
refund, but did offer £75 for the customer service experienced by Mr M. He remained 
unhappy with how Lloyds had handled his claim and made a complaint to them. Lloyds 
investigated the complaint and declined to offer any further refund.
Mr M then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information 
about the complaint. Mr M explained giving his family member the card details to assist him 
with certain purchases, but confirmed that on each occasion he did this, there was no 
ongoing permission for his account to be used by the family member. Mr M confirmed he still 
had possession of his card and hadnt given it or revealed the PIN to anyone. Mr M provided 
evidence that he was in another location when some of the card transactions using the PIN 
were made.
Lloyds provided audit data of the transactions and evidence of two cards issued to Mr M that 
were used to make these disputed transactions. After investigating the complaint, our 
investigator partially upheld it. He explained that payments to Internet A and the Chip and 
PIN transactions were likely to be authorised by Mr M but payments to Internet B were 
unlikely to be made by Mr M. He recommended a partial refund to Mr M and an interest 
payment. He thought that the payment for the customer service was reasonable. 
Lloyds accepted the investigators review, but Mr M didnt. He specifically disagreed that the 
Chip and PIN transactions were him and asked for a further review of the complaint. Its now 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the bulk of the complaint has been accepted, I dont need to further consider those parts 
of it. So, Ill only be concentrating on the aspect of the investigators review that Mr M 
disagreed with which are the Chip and PIN payments.
Mr M has explained that he maintained control of his card, never allowed anyone else to use 
it and didnt give his PIN to anyone. He also said he was working in a different part of the city 
on the day of the disputed transactions using his card. 
Lloyds confirmed the genuine card was used to make these withdrawals, which means here 
that it wasnt a cloned copy of Mr Ms card and the transactions were authenticated. I 
appreciate Mr M says he was in a different part of the city at the time of these transactions, 
but it doesnt explain how his card and PIN were used to make these withdrawals. Ive 
considered whats likely here and in order for someone to use Mr Ms card without his 
permission, they would need to be able to obtain the physical card from Mr M without him 
realising, know the PIN (which Mr M never told anyone about), use the card and then 
replace it  all with Mr M remaining unaware.  
Mr M told us that he lives alone and didnt have much contact with the family member who 
lives elsewhere (who had the card details but not the PIN). So, I dont think its feasible that 
they were the one who took the card, nor do I think its likely that someone unknown to Mr M 
took the card, used it and replaced it as no one else knew the PIN. Its unlikely the PIN could 
have been guessed as there are too many combinations. 
If the card was somehow used by an unidentified third party then I would expect the card to 
be used far more than it was. The account had a healthy balance at the time and if the card 
user had the PIN, they would have been able to use it at other merchants  but didnt. 
Mr M would still be liable for the withdrawals if he allowed someone else to use his card with 
his permission, which means here that he wouldnt have to be the one physically using the 
card to make the withdrawals. I acknowledge that Mr M said he hadnt done this, but the 
evidence Ive reviewed makes it unlikely the card could have been used without some form 
of permission and information (PIN) being given to the user by Mr M. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr M was responsible for the use of the Chip and PIN 
withdrawals and I wont be upholding this aspect of his complaint.
Putting things right
The aspects that have so far been agreed are:
Refund £480.64
Add simple interest at 8% for the loss of the use of those funds from the date of the 
payments to the time theyre repaid.
Pay Mr M £75 for the poor customer service. 
My final decision
Unless they have already done so, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC are instructed 
to settle the complaint as set out above.For the avoidance of doubt, I do not uphold the other aspects of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman