DRN-3557836
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy because Goldman Sachs International Bank says he cant have one of its 
Saga-branded savings accounts. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr D tried to open a Saga-branded account, but couldnt complete the 
application process because he didnt have a mobile phone. He queried this, and then raised 
a complaint, with Goldman Sachs.
In response, Goldman Sachs said all potential customers must provide their own mobile 
phone number, as well as an email address, when applying for the Saga-branded accounts. 
And this is made clear on its website. Unhappy with this, Mr D asked us to look into his 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I didnt think Goldman Sachs had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in refusing to allow Mr D to open an account. I explained that 
Id reached that conclusion having taken into account that:
The account terms and conditions didnt say specifically that Mr D must provide at the 
outset, and continue to hold on his account, a mobile phone number. But nor did those 
terms and conditions set out all of the other account eligibility criteria. Whereas the 
account requirements did appear to have been set out on Goldman Sachs website. 
These included being aged 18 or over and a UK resident as well as the need to provide 
details of a UK current account held in the customers name and their own email address 
and mobile phone number. And I thought Mr D probably realised this was a requirement 
(at the latest) when he was unable to complete the application without entering a mobile 
phone number. 
Goldman Sachs had explained that it uses mobile phone contact to maintain account 
security. It was clear the bank also sometimes used email to communicate with 
customers. But Goldman Sachs said it considered mobile phone verification to be the 
safest and quickest way of verifying a customers identity and ensuring its the genuine 
customer who is attempting to access the account. I was satisfied Goldman Sachs had 
provided valid reasons for wanting to be able to contact Mr D by mobile phone. And his 
inability to communicate via this medium would legitimately impact its ability to protect 
his account.
Mr D didnt accept my provisional findings. He said, in summary, that:
I unreasonably interpreted his complaint. It is not a matter of whether or not he read the 
account terms and conditions. It is a matter of whether those terms and conditions are 
fair.
Its unfair and unreasonable of Goldman Sachs to insist on mobile phone ownership in 
order to be eligible for its account. This is unfair to any potential customer who does not 
own a mobile phone  this tends to be older people, which is the demographic for which  
Saga usually caters. Other savings account providers do not insist on this. He could 
operate the account via his landline or a third party device, when away from home. 
Goldman Sachs didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling and his desire to take out an account with 
Goldman Sachs, given the favourable rate of interest it has offered in the past (and may offer 
in the future).
But, despite what Mr D says, I did consider and comment specifically about whether it was 
fair to require him to have a mobile phone in order to take out and operate an account. As 
set out in my provisional decision and summarised above, Im satisfied Goldman Sachs has 
provided what I consider to be valid reasons for wanting to be able to contact Mr D by mobile 
phone and for making this part of the account eligibility criteria.
In all the circumstances, I remain satisfied that the bank did not act unfairly when it refused 
to allow Mr D to open an account without providing his own mobile phone number.
.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman