DRN-1633663
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
When this policy was sold, Canada Square Operations Limited was trading as Egg. So to 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Egg in this decision. 
What happened
In 1999, Mr D applied for a credit card online and at the same time was sold PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think MrDs complaint should be upheld. Mr D didnt agree with the 
adjudicators decision, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
This was an internet sale, where Mr D would have been able to complete the application in 
his own time and at his own pace. Egg has provided some screen shots taken from its 
standard online application process in use at the time. And it has provided copies of the 
electronic records it has retained which are specific to Mr Ds application. This service has 
also seen details of many other Egg credit card applications from around this time. 
So from all this information, I think I can be reasonably certain about what Mr D would have 
seen on his screen when he made his application. This would have included a screen about 
PPI where, for him to progress further with his application, he would have had to select one 
of two equally prominent options:
 
Yes, I would like to protect my repayments against accident, sickness and 
unemployment, or
 
No, I do not wish to protect my repayments and I understand it will be my 
responsibility to keep up my repayments if I fall ill or lose my job
 
Eggs electronic records indicate that Mr D selected to take the PPI cover offered.In responding to our adjudicators view, Mr Ds representative said that Mr D thought he had 
to accept the PPI to get his card application approved. But looking at the way the PPI section 
of the online application was laid out, I think that Mr D would have known that the PPI was 
optional and wouldnt mean his application would be rejected if he chose not to take it. 
So having carefully considered all the information available to me, I think its most likely that 
Mr D actively chose to take the PPI, knowing that he had a choice. But I can understand why 
he may not be able to recall this now.
As this was not an advised sale, Egg didnt need to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable 
for Mr D. But it still needed to give enough information for Mr D to decide, himself, if he 
wanted to take it. The screen shots which Egg has provided show that a reasonable detailed 
summary of the key aspects of the policy would have been available to Mr D when he was 
completing his application. 
Nevertheless, I think the information Egg provided could have been better than it was. For 
example, it could have made it clearer that the PPI premiums would be added to his 
account and, therefore, might attract interest. But I dont think that better information would 
have changed Mr Ds mind about taking the policy. I say this because:
 
Mr D appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
Mr D says that he didnt need the PPI cover because he was eligible for generous 
sick pay from his employer and also had some savings he could have used to make 
his repayments. But this policy would have paid out in addition to these other means. 
And he chose to take out the cover so it seems like he wanted this type of protection. 
So I still think that he would have found this extra cover useful if things had gone 
wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr D. And as the premiums 
were charged monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
 
So from what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr D has lost out by anything that Egg may have 
done wrong when it sold this PPI to him.
This means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:
 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair.
 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman