DRN-2303365
The complaint
Mr I says Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) did as follows:
Allowed him to trade Options in his account without informing him that it was 
completely different to regular trading with entirely different set of problems and 
risks. A number of his Options trades resulted in losses because trading was 
suspended and he was unable to close them when he wanted to. Overall, he seeks 
recovery of all his Options trading losses. [issue 1]
Allowed him to make company/business-based deposits into the account despite the 
terms for the account prohibiting such deposits. He says the deposits should never 
have been accepted and he seeks a total refund in this respect. [issue 2]
Allowed him to continue making deposits into the account after he instructed its 
closure in January 2020  which he did upon his coming to terms with his gambling 
addiction and attempting to address it. He seeks a refund of all the deposits he made 
into the account after his closure instruction. [issue 3]
What happened
Plus500 disputes the complaint. In response to issue 1, it mainly says the matter relates to 
Options Contracts for Differences (CFD) trading; that the specific periods of unavailable 
trading happened due to low trading volume and high price volatility in the relevant market(s) 
which made prices and price quotes unreliable; that screenshots of Bloomberg charts 
relevant to each affected trade serve as evidence of this; and that suspension of trading in 
such circumstances is provided for and supported by section 13.7 of the User Agreement for 
the account.
In response to issue 2, Plus500 mainly says it was entitled to rely upon information from its 
customers unless it was aware of reason not to do so; that the User agreement provided for 
this and for the obligation upon customers (like Mr I) not to use corporate payment methods 
to fund trading in the account; and that it had discretion to verify customers payment 
methods which, in Mr Is case, it did in October 2019. 
Its response to issue 3 is that Mr I sent his account closure instruction on 24 January 2020; 
that in order to execute the instruction all positions in the account had to have been closed 
and any account balance had to have been withdrawn; that upon receipt of his instruction he 
still had an open position in the account and he proceeded to open more positions later on 
the same day; he did not inform Plus500 of his gambling problem until 1 February 2020; and 
it confirmed to him, on 5 February, that the account had been closed.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She agreed, broadly, with Plus500s position (and supporting evidence) on all three 
issues. 
With regards to issue 1, the investigator also established  with evidence  that Mr I had 
been provided with a Risk Disclosure Notice (RDN) which highlighted the risks in CFD 
trading and that, at the outset, he was issued with notice from Plus500 that the CFD trading 
account was inappropriate for him. She acknowledged Plus500s right to have granted him 
the account, after the inappropriateness warning was issued to and agreed/waived by him, 
and she concluded that it did nothing wrong in allowing him to trade in the account.
Mr I did not accept this outcome. In particular, he said he wanted the outcome reviewed 
because he considers it unethical for Plus500 not to have detected and rejected the 
corporate payment methods he used for the account. The matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the investigators conclusions and her reasons. I do not uphold     
Mr Is complaint. 
Issue 1
The regulators Conduct of Business Rules within COBS 10A.2 sets out the basis on which a 
firm is required to assess the appropriateness of a financial product or service for a customer 
or client. The purpose being to determine whether (or not) the client has sufficient knowledge 
and experience to understand the risks involved in the service or product offered by the firm. 
COBS 10A.3 then says a firm is obliged to warn its client if the appropriateness assessment 
concludes that its service or product is not appropriate; that its warning can be in a 
standardised format; and that if, despite the warning, the client wishes to proceed with the 
service or product the firm has discretion to do so  having regard to the circumstances.
We have been given evidence of the outcome of the appropriateness assessment conducted 
for Mr Is account at the outset. It notified him that the account (for CFD trading) was 
inappropriate for him and he chose to agree (and waive) that notice in order to proceed with 
the account. Plus500 says the circumstances which persuaded it to allow the account 
opening to proceed included his references to having prior trading experience, including in 
shares, Options, commodities and forex; to having the financial capacity for loss from CFD 
trading; and to having requisite financial knowledge.
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that Plus500 discharged its obligation to warn Mr I 
that the account was inappropriate for him  as it had assessed  and that the 
circumstances which persuaded it to grant his request to proceed, despite the warning, were 
reasonable. In addition, and considering the risk warnings within the RDN (including 
warnings about the risks of CFD and Options CFD trading), I do not accept Mr Is claim that 
he was not informed, or adequately informed, about the trading he was venturing into. I 
consider that he was.
The other matter in issue 1 relates to the periods of suspended trading. I am satisfied with 
Plus500s evidence of price volatility and unreliability during those periods and, as it says, 
the User Agreement expressly made provision for such suspended trading where prices 
were unreliable. I consider that this stands to reason, and it is not uncommon in the sector 
for trading to be suspended on platforms where prices are uncertain or volatile and until 
prices and/or price quotes become reliable again.
I find no basis to say Mr I should recover his losses from Options CFD trading in the 
account.
Issue 2Mr I concedes, and declares, that he breached the User Agreements prohibition against 
corporate payments into the account. This does not naturally lend itself to his claim for 
compensation. Nevertheless, I have considered if a basis for such a claim exists in 
Plus500s reaction  or, as he has argued, inaction.
The prohibition essentially created a duty that rested on the customer  in this case, Mr I. 
Plus500 was entitled to expect him to abide by it given that he had agreed the User 
Agreement for the account. I have not seen evidence that he gave prior notice of breaching 
the prohibition to Plus500 or evidence that it was or could have been aware of the breaches 
as they happened. It does not appear to have had a definitive duty to monitor, routinely, 
against such breaches and it has referred to the discretion it had to do so which it exercised 
in October 2019.
Even if such a duty existed, I do not consider an argument that Plus500 failed to apply a 
routine check on payment sources could create grounds for the refund Mr I seeks. His 
deposits were based on his decisions and his action, and where they were lost in trades that 
he placed then that too is a matter rooted in his decisions and actions. I am not persuaded 
that the accountability (and ethics) he has argued, even if established, could reasonably 
result in refunding such losses to him.
Issue 3
After sharing news of his gambling problem with Plus500 on 1 February, Mr Is account was 
closed by the time it responded to his complaint on 5 February. I do not consider this an 
unreasonable reaction period, especially as available evidence is that there were no open 
positions  therefore no exposures to risks  in the account when it was closed. Overall and 
on balance, I am not persuaded that Plus500 reacted unreasonably or too slowly to this 
news. I do not consider that it facilitated more trading (and potential losses) in the account 
after 1 February despite its awareness of the gambling problem.
Between 24 January, when Mr I appears to have instructed the closure of the account, and 1 
February it was reasonable for Plus500 to ensure that any such closure took place in the 
correct circumstances. Mr Is retention of open positions, opening of new positions and any 
new deposits made after 24 January all conflicted with his closure instruction. I consider that 
he retains primary responsibility for that. Perhaps Plus500 could have been more proactive 
in clarifying such conflicting behaviour, but I do not consider that the situation was unduly 
drawn out. By 1 February it had notice of Mr Is problem and within a few days there were no 
open positions in the account and the account was closed.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded by Mr Is claim for a refund in this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman