DRN-3438755
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost, which he believes was 
the result of a scam.
Mr M is represented in this complaint but for ease of reference, I have referred to all 
submissions as if made directly by Mr M.
Background
Mr M has explained that in 2011, he met a lady on an adult website  for ease of reference 
Ill refer to her as Ms P. Mr M built a relationship over time with Ms P, meeting her on two 
occasions and became engaged. In 2012 Mr M and Ms P faced issues in the relationship 
and parted ways, cutting contact.
In 2019, Mr M was on another adult website when he again came across Ms P 
unexpectedly. The two began speaking again regularly from this point onwards, both on the 
website, on other instant messaging services and by phone on a few occasions.
Mr M has explained he was in love with Ms P and wanted to start a life together. Having 
reviewed the conversations between them, I can see he told her this on multiple occasions. 
However at the time due to Covid-19 there were travel restrictions, so this was difficult. Ms P 
also expressed concerns over meeting Mr M after how their previous relationship ended.
Mr M made payments to Ms P via other bank accounts from July 2019 onwards, mostly 
direct through the adult site she was on. In December 2019 Mr M also started making 
payments to her directly through his HSBC account using an international payment service. 
Mr M has explained he made the payments as he believed he was supporting her at a time 
she was struggling financially and had a young child  believing they would eventually meet 
and be together. In total Mr M made 21 payments from his HSBC account, totalling almost 
£20,000. The payment values ranged between £45.23 and £9,023.01.
In April 2021, Ms P advised she considered Mr M to be just a friend. At this point Mr M 
considered hed been the victim of a scam. He contacted his banking providers to raise a 
scam claim, as well as the Police, Action Fraud and the Home Office.
HSBC investigated Mr Ms claim but declined a refund. It said as the payment went through 
an international payment service provider, and not directly to the scammer, the scam 
occurred when the funds left that service provider, rather than when the funds left Mr Ms 
HSBC account. However it did acknowledge it provided Mr M with poor customer service 
when logging his claim and credited his account by £250 as an apology.
Mr M disagreed with HSBCs response and so contacted this service. He said another 
banking provider he holds an account with has provided him with a full refund and didnt 
understand why HSBC wouldnt do the same. Mr Ms complaint was looked at by an 
investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator considered that all but one of the payments 
were in line with Mr Ms typical spending behaviour  so wouldnt have appeared out of 
character or unusual to HSBC for it to have intervened. The investigator considered there 
was one payment that was out of character, for £9,023.01  however she didnt consider that 
further questioning by HSBC wouldve led Mr M to believe he was the victim of a scam, or 
raised concerns with HSBC  based on him having met Ms P and having been in a 
relationship previously with her. She also considered that as this payment was made to an 
international payment service account in his name, it wouldve appeared to HSBC that this 
payment was being made to himself. Following her assessment, the investigator also 
commented that having reviewed conversations between Mr M and Ms P, its arguable 
whether this was ever a scam.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said that the payments were a drastic 
change in his account use, being the largest made through this international payment 
service. He disagreed that payments to a third party or wallet account in his name should 
prevent a bank from being suspicious and considered that had a detailed conversation taken 
place, trained staff would have been able to identify that the payments were being made 
towards a scam.
Because Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say HSBC 
should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im really sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr M, and I appreciate this has had a
significant impact on him, both financially and emotionally. Its understandable, having lost
such a significant sum, why Mr M feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases
where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
Having considered everything both HSBC and Mr M have provided, I dont think theres 
enough evidence to safely conclude Mr Ms complaint meets the high legal threshold and 
burden of proof for fraud. While well never know with certainty what Ms Ps intentions were 
when liaising with Mr M, it appears there was at some point in the past a genuine 
relationship between the two that deteriorated. Having reviewed the instant messaging 
conversations that took place between the pair, I can see that while Ms P did at times refer 
to financial struggles, payments Mr M made to her were largely made without request or 
even knowledge at times by Ms P  so I cant safely conclude that Ms P induced Mr M into 
making the payments, by means of deception. Ms P eventually also told Mr M she wished to 
just be friends, despite still receiving money from Mr M  which arent the actions I would 
expect a scammer to take.
Even if I was to consider this as a scam, I dont think that any payments other than the one 
for £9,023.01 ought to have been considered out of character or unusual by HSBC. I 
disagree with HSBC that the loss was incurred when Mr Ms funds left the international 
service provider, rather than Mr Ms account. While this service provider was involved in processing Mr Ms funds to another currency, for all intents and purposes Mr Ms funds were 
out of his personal control when they left his HSBC account and so I consider it HSBCs 
responsibility to determine whether it couldve done more to prevent the payments being 
made.
However, while I appreciate payments were being made internationally, which could be 
considered a higher risk indicator for fraud, I can see that in the months prior to the scam Mr 
M made international payments from the account on a number of separate occasions  so I 
dont think HSBC ought to have identified payments to an international payment service as 
suspicious or out of character for that reason alone, based on it being similar to other 
spending behaviour on Mr Ms account. The value of the other payments also wasnt so out 
of character that I think this shouldve raised concern with HSBC.
When Mr M made the payment for £9,023.01, this was stopped by HSBC for checks and Mr 
M spoke to a member of the HSBC fraud team.  Mr M told HSBC he was transferring funds 
to his partner who he knows in person and who he has interactions with. He explained she 
wasnt currently working due to Covid-19. While I think HSBC couldve asked further 
questions when speaking to Mr M, even if it had done so, I dont think Mr Ms responses 
wouldve raised significant concerns for HSBC to refuse to process the payment. I also dont 
think any further fraud advice HSBC couldve provided wouldve impacted Mr Ms decision to 
make the payment. I say this because Mr Ms circumstances arent aligned with what Id 
consider to be the typical hallmarks of a romance scam. Mr M knew Ms P and had met her in 
person in the past  and built a strong enough relationship with her at this time to propose. 
Their meeting in 2019 was by chance, rather than instigated by Ms P as a scammer, and the 
payment in question was being made by Mr M without any request or knowledge on Ms Ps 
behalf.
I appreciate Mr M may be frustrated that another of his banking providers has refunded the 
payments he made through that account. I havent seen the details of that case to know 
what reason the bank had for providing a refund  whether it considered Mr M had been 
scammed and that it was, for some purpose, liable  or whether it made a commercial 
decision to provide a refund. Either way, I can only consider the circumstances of the 
complaint Mr M has against HSBC, and for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think 
HSBC should be held liable for Mr Ms losses.
Ive thought about the service HSBC provided when Mr M raised his claim and I agree the 
service was unsatisfactory. Having considered the impact this had on Mr M at the time, I 
think £250 offered by HSBC is fair to reflect the additional stress and worry HSBC caused.
I do feel considerable sympathy for what Mr M has been through here. But unfortunately, Im 
not persuaded that this was a consequence of any specific failing on the part of HSBC  so 
whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint him, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask HSBC to 
refund the loss.My final decision
My final decision is to not uphold Mr Ms complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman