DRN-3246121
The complaint
Mr P complains that Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited (Future Finance) 
irresponsibly granted him loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Future Finance provided Mr P with two £5,000 loans: one in October 2019 and one in 
January 2020. They were tiered loans that enabled Mr P to pay reduced payments whilst he 
was studying and larger payments once hed completed his studies, on the reasonable 
assumption that he would be able to obtain more lucrative work once qualified.
Mr P said that he wasnt able to afford either loan and they were provided irresponsibly.
Future Finance disagreed. They said they had carried out proportionate checks before 
approving the 2019 loan. They had completed a detailed analysis to establish what Mr P was 
likely to earn after he qualified and decided his income would be about £2,228. They also 
used statistical modelling to estimate Mr Ps living expenses and they reviewed Mr Ps credit 
file. They noted that he was maintaining his other credit commitments well and that there 
were no defaults or County Court Judgments, and they explained that they took into account 
his other credit commitments when considering whether the agreement was affordable. They 
also noted that Mr P was doing some work at the time of his application in 2019 and, all told, 
they decided he would have sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
They explained that they had also reviewed the 2020 loan and decided it shouldnt have 
been approved. They had therefore refunded all interest on that loan and were only holding 
Mr P responsible for repaying the capital.
Our investigator didnt think the business had done anything wrong when approving the first 
loan and he thought the actions theyd taken on the 2020 loan were sufficient. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He asked for a final decision by an ombudsman and 
the case has therefore been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The 2019 Loan
I think Future Finance completed proportionate checks when they approved the loan. They 
reviewed Mr Ps credit file and gathered information about his income and personal 
circumstances. They made a reasonable estimation of his expenditure using statistical tools 
and in those circumstances they didnt need to review Mr Ps bank statements as the checks 
theyd completed were reasonable and in proportion to the amount being loaned.
The FCA's Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) applies to all credit-related regulated 
activities. CONC 5.2A 15 (5) says:
The firm may only take into account an expected future increase in the customers income 
where the firm reasonably believes on the basis of appropriate evidence that the increase is 
likely to happen during the term of the agreement.
And CONC 5 2A.16(4) explains that: 
An example of where it may be reasonable to take into account an expected future increase 
in income would be a loan to fund the provision of further or higher education, provided that 
an appropriate assessment required by this section is carried out. 
So, I think Future Finance were entitled to take into account Mr Ps projected future income 
within the term of the loan. I can see that they used information from a third party (the Higher 
Education Statistics Agency) to derive future income and I think that was a reasonable 
methodology.
The checks revealed that Mr P was likely to have sufficient disposable income to afford the 
instudy loan repayments and those that would apply a few months after his study had 
completed.
CONC 5.2A 16(4) goes on to explain:
If, in such a case, the customers income does not increase in line with expectations, the 
firm should consider deferring or limiting the obligation to repay until the customers income 
has reached an appropriate level.
I think thats what Future Finance have done here. I can see that they did, for instance, 
agree to suppress interest for the duration of a reduced payment arrangement.
I dont therefore think Future Finance did anything wrong when deciding that the loan 
provided in 2019 was affordable for Mr P.
The 2020 loan.
Had I decided this loan was unaffordable I would have asked Future Finance to refund 
interest on it, but I would have suggested that Mr P was still responsible for repaying the 
capital he had had the benefit of.
I can see thats what Future Finance have done, and theyve agreed an arrangement with   
Mr P to pay off the balance. I dont therefore think they need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman