DRN-3869083
The complaint
Mrs C complains Cogent Insurance Services Limited didnt arrange transport home for her, 
when she says they should have, following a car accident.
What happened
In September 2022 Mrs C was unfortunately involved in a car accident. She says her car 
was collected and transported, but she was left by the side of the road despite her policy 
terms saying theyd transport her home following a car accident. Mrs C says leaving a 
woman on her own by the side of a busy road added to an already stressful situation 
following the car accident. 
In their initial response, Cogent said Mrs C didnt have any cover for onward travel following 
an accident  so they hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs Cs husband got in touch and pointed out she did have cover for onward travel  so 
Cogent had made a mistake. 
Cogent accepted a mistake had been made, and that they should have helped Mrs C at the 
roadside. They said to say sorry for this theyd pay £50 for not helping Mrs C at the time, and 
a further £50 for the incorrect information she was given. They also refunded the taxi costs  
in total, they ultimately paid Mrs C £170.
Unhappy with this Mrs C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
overall found Cogent had done enough to put things right, so she didnt ask them to award 
any more compensation.
Mrs C said she felt the issue here was the amounts she was awarded for compensation - 
£50 for leaving her stranded by the roadside didnt reflect the extra distress shed been 
caused. Mrs C said if her husband hadnt pursued the matter then Cogent wouldnt have 
admitted theyd make a mistake. She asked for the two issues to be addressed separately.
Our Investigator explained as the issues related to the same event, it was appropriate for us 
to take into account everything thatd happened. And although Cogent had given the wrong 
information, overall, she remained of the opinion £100 compensation plus a refund of the taxi 
costs was a fair outcome. Mrs C still didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mrs Cs desire to have the matters dealt with separately, as our 
Investigator explained we cant look at complaint handling on its own only when its 
ancillary to a regulated activity. Thatd mean if I were to split the two cases, I cant look at the 
second issue  which I dont think would be helpful overall.
And, it simply wouldnt be appropriate to consider the two issues in isolation when they are 
linked. Id apply the same approach if a financial business had made the same request, but I 
didnt think that was appropriate  so its only right I apply the same approach when a 
consumer makes a similar request.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above I do think its appropriate to consider everything that 
happened under this one complaint.
There is no dispute Cogent made a mistake. Ive seen their explanation for this, but 
ultimately, theyre responsible for leaving Mrs C beside a busy roundabout when they 
shouldnt have.
That means the question I need to answer is whether Cogent have now done enough to put 
matters right. For the reasons Ill go on to explain, I think they have.
In deciding this, I need to take into account all of the factors I understand have happened. 
After her car had been picked up, Mrs C was told by the recovery agents they werent 
required to take her home. It seems Mrs C accepted this at the time, as she was told she 
didnt have cover. I do think this is extremely disappointing.
To get home, Mrs C has told us she was able to flag down a taxi following the accident 
which then took her home. I understand her point, it was pure chance a taxi did come by and 
she was fortunate to get home as quickly and safely as she did. However, I cant award 
compensation for what might have happened, only what did.
So, although Mrs C was left stranded by the side of the road when she shouldnt have, she 
was ultimately able to get home in a safe manner.
Calculating compensation can be difficult, as it depends on a number of factors and is very 
individual to the specific circumstances of the case. Here, Mrs C wasnt taken home when 
she should have been and was initially given the wrong information, but ultimately she was 
able to get home without too much difficulty. Im satisfied £100 is fair to put those matters 
right. I also note Cogent have accepted and refunded the taxi fare of £70 without a receipt. I 
do accept Mrs Cs husbands comments it wouldnt be reasonable to now try and get a 
receipt  but I consider this also acceptance of the error Cogent made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman