DRN-4075649
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the charges for the tyre replacement, the scratch to the front
bumper, or the dent to the RHR door have been fairly applied and Im expecting to tell MBFS
to remove them.
There appears to have been some confusion between what the business had charged on its
invoice, what the business confirmed in its final response letter, and what our investigator felt
was still outstanding. So, in this provisional decision Ive tried to clarify matters.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr M responsible for keeping the car in good
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct
condition.
The process
Mr M is upset that MBFS completed two inspections of his car. He has explained that he was
surprised to receive an invoice for refurbishment.
MBFS arent members of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA), the
organisation that provide the industry guidelines on what is considered fair wear and tear
when a car is returned at the end of a lease. But I think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to
be mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection.
The BVRLA guidance recommends that drivers (or nominated representatives) are present
when vehicles are collected. It says that all readily apparent damage and wear will be
documented when the vehicle is collected, and the driver will be given an opportunity to
agree with the condition report.
Mr M was given an opportunity to attend the first inspection and to agree to the condition
report, but that initial inspection didnt identify any of the extensive damage that was noted
during the second inspection.
He wasnt given an opportunity to attend the second inspection and Ive therefore thought
about whether that disadvantaged him, and whether the results would have been different
had he been present.
The second inspection was completed shortly after the first and I think it unlikely any
additional damage would have been incurred. I think the second inspection was therefore
only likely to reveal damage present on the car when it was collected, and I dont therefore
feel Mr M was disadvantaged when he wasnt given an opportunity to attend the second
inspection.
The damage charges that remain
MBFS have their own vehicle return standards (VRS) but the industry guidelines for what is
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is
provided by the BVRLA. I think its only fair to consider that standard (as it applied at the
time of inspection) in tandem with the VRS, when considering if the damage in the inspection
reports can fairly be considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage in the second report and compared the
damage to the two standards.
Wheel damage
The VRS says:
Minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face
are acceptable.
The BVRLA guidance says:
any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
and scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are
acceptable.
I think all of the wheels exhibit scuffs to the rims that are in excess of both standards.
Charges have therefore been fairly applied. The left hand front wheel has significant damage
and I think the extra charge to replace it, rather than refurbish it, is reasonable.
RHF Tyre
The BVRLA says the tyre must meet UK minimum requirements and I think that can be the
only reasonable assessment of what is a fair return condition for a tyre.
The UK minimum is 1.6mm of tread across the width of the tyre.
There are no gauges showing on the image in the report and the tyre is covered in grit. So
its difficult to establish the amount of tread left. I can see a tread pattern across the width of
the tyre, and, on balance, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence the tyre is worn
beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear. I dont think the charge has been fairly
made.
Scratches to right hand rear doorThe VRS says:
Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat and/or has
caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out is not acceptable.
The BVRLA says:
surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one
panel is acceptable.
Theres chipping and scratching to the door edge in excess of 25mm that has penetrated the
base coat. I think the damage is in excess of both standards and the charge MBFS have
made is therefore reasonable.
Right-hand front door aperture
The VRS says:
Aperture seals that are torn are not acceptable.
I cant see that the BVRLA provide any guidance on this issue but, as the seal is torn, I dont
think MBFS were unreasonable when levying a charge to replace it.
Scratches to the front bumper
The VRS says:
Scuff marks of up to 50mm, which do not adversely affect the overall appearance of your
vehicle are acceptable.
The BVRLA say:
surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one
panel is acceptable.
I dont think the scratches to the front bumper are in excess of the guidance. I can see two
scratches and the ruler suggests they are less than 25mm. I dont therefore think MBFS
have been fair to charge to refurbish them.
RHF door dented
I can see the business have already agreed that the image in the inspection photograph
doesnt adequately illustrate any damage to this panel. I would agree that a charge shouldnt
be made.
Rippling on the left-hand front door
Whilst our investigator has suggested the charge should be waived, I cant see that charge
was listed on the invoice or in MBFSs final response. And, even if Im wrong about that,
having looked at the photograph in the inspection report I can see no rippling or damage. So,
I dont think a charge was made, or should have been made.
Putting things rightMBFS will need to remove the charges they have made to refurbish the front bumper (£210)
and the RHF tyre (£210.69), in addition to the previous deduction they had approved for the
dented RHF door.
The final bill should be for:
Wheel LHF £489.63
Refurbishment of the other three wheels £330.00
Door RHR scratch £210
Door aperture seal replacement RHF £46.75
Total (excluding VAT) £1,076.38
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS didnt respond to my provisional decision, but Mr M did. He said:
after reflecting on previous correspondence and reading the (inspection company) 
collection policy I dont believe (inspection company), and Mercedes Benz have completed 
the correct protocol for all of this. The (inspection company) website states their inspection 
and collection procedure which was followed apart from one important point. The procedure 
states that any damages listed in the inspection report should have been disclosed and 
shown to me at the time of the inspection. This wasn't the case. When I was asked if I had to 
sign anything, I was told no and off he went. It wasn't until after this I was sent an inspection 
notice detailing all different kinds of damage which were not there when the vehicle was in 
my possession and were not pointed out to me at the time of the inspection. I also find it very 
odd that if my tyres were "unroadworthy", why the inspector felt it was fine to drive off. This 
would be breaking the law. As stated in the 2nd report the tyre tread was supposedly 1mm.  
I would not have been driving my children around with these tyres. The photos supplied by 
the (inspection company) showing damages were in a showroom full of lots of cars so I can 
only imagine the damage was incurred here. If you read reviews of the (inspection company) 
on the internet, this is common practice.
I explained in my provisional decision that I didnt think it was unreasonable for MBFS to 
complete a further and final inspection. So, even if Mr M wasnt given an opportunity to 
review the first inspection results, I still think he wasnt disadvantaged as:
The second inspection was completed shortly after the first and I think it unlikely any
additional damage would have been incurred. I think the second inspection was therefore
only likely to reveal damage present on the car when it was collected, and I dont therefore
feel Mr M was disadvantaged when he wasnt given an opportunity to attend the second
inspection.And as that second inspection was completed so close to the collection date, I think its more 
likely than not that the damage was present on the car when it was collected, and hasnt 
been incurred in the short period of time between collection and the final inspection.
I cant comment on whether the agent of the inspection company was right to drive the car 
away in the condition it was in. That would be a matter for the police. 
Putting things right
Ultimately, Ive not been provided with additional information that would lead me to change 
my provisional decision and that now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to remove the charges they have made to refurbish the front 
bumper (£210) and the RHF tyre (£210.69), in addition to the previous deduction they had 
approved for the dented RHF door.
The final bill should therefore be for:
Wheel LHF £489.63
Refurbishment of the other three wheels £330.00
Door RHR scratch £210
Door aperture seal replacement RHF £46.75
Total (excluding VAT) £1,076.38
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman