DRN-3954642
The complaint
Mr F complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket (Quidmarket) gave him 
loans while he was struggling financially. Mr F says these loans made his financial situation 
worse and he was forced to take out further loans. 
What happened
Mr F took two loans from Quidmarket, and Ive summarised his borrowing in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £600.00 19/07/2021 26/11/2021 5 £194.78
2 £900.00 30/11/2021 16/03/2022 6 £289.17
Quidmarket wrote to Mr F with a final response letter, and it didnt uphold the complaint. But 
as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to remove the loans from Mr Fs credit file. Unhappy with 
this response, Mr F referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Quidmarket made a 
reasonable decision to lend loan 1, but she did uphold the complaint about loan 2. She said 
the credit checks at loan 2, may have indicated Mr F was regularly opening new credit 
accounts in the six months before this loan was approved. This led the adjudicator to 
conclude Quidmarket needed to carry out further checks before lending further funds.
Had, Quidmarket carried out further check it wouldve likely discovered in the month before 
this loan was approved Mr F had taken a new loan of £1,000 and was making repayments to 
two running credit providers as well as other instalment loans. Knowing this, the adjudicator 
concluded this loan ought to not have been advanced. 
Quidmarket didnt agree with the outcome. In response, in summary it said:
At loan 2, Mr Fs income had significantly increased, and he was living at home at the 
time the loan was approved. 
Based on the lending relationship and the information available, Quidmarket made a 
reasonable decision to advance loan 2. 
It isnt reasonable for a second loan for Quidmarket to have carried out more in-depth 
checks. 
The overdrafts (on his current account) had been opened when Mr F was 18 and 
going to university and these overdrafts will be interest free and it isnt for Quidmarket 
to say how these should be repaid. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr F could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Fs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr F. These factors include:
Mr F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr F. The adjudicator didnt believe this 
applied to Mr Fs complaint because only two loans were advanced.  
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr F was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint. 
Quidmarket only disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loan 2, so from that I 
infer from that is it was content with the outcome the adjudicator reached for loan 1. In 
addition, Mr F also appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings about the complaint.
So, to me, it seems loan 1 isnt in dispute. But for the avoidance of doubt, I also dont think 
Quidmarket made an unreasonable decision to provide that loan based on carrying out 
proportionate checks. So, I say no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether 
Quidmarket ought to have granted loan 2. 
Loan 2Before the loan was approved, Quidmarket took details of Mr Fs income and expenditure. 
Quidmarket has recorded wages into bank account as £2,600 per month. Quidmarket has 
recorded Mr Fs disposable income as being £1,633 per month  which implies that it has 
taken monthly expenditure (both declared and from its checks) of £967. 
Before this loan was given, Quidmarket says it also carried out a credit search. It is worth 
saying here that although Quidmarket carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Quidmarket cant do is 
carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it received  if 
necessary.  
Having looked at the credit search results provided by Quidmarket there is information 
contained within it, which ought to have led it to carry out further checks before advancing 
this loan. 
Mr Fs debt was slightly larger than when his first loan was approved. However, Quidmarket 
was aware that Mr F had opened seven new credit accounts within the last six months  
which was on average more than one new account per month. 
Knowing, this I think there was a real risk that Mr F may have been using other high-cost 
credit providers and so was at risk of not being able to sustainably repay this loan. This is 
further supported, by the fact that Mr F had had six credit searches recorded on his credit file 
within the last three months, evidence in my view, that at least recently, Mr F had a 
continued need for new credit.
Therefore, given the results of the credit searches, I dont think it was reasonable for 
Quidmarket to have relied on what Mr F declared to it about his income and expenditure 
even though this information suggested Mr F could afford the loan repayments. This is 
because, the information in the credit search suggested that Mr F was regularly seeking and 
being granted new credit which could be a sign that someone was having problems 
managing their money because there was a need for new funds. 
Instead, I think Quidmarket needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Fs actual financial 
position to ensure the loan was affordable and sustainable for him. This couldve been done 
in several ways, such as asking for evidence of his outgoings, or looking at bank statements 
and/or any other documentation Quidmarket considered it reasonably needed to obtain. This 
mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other 
information that Quidmarket mightve needed to consider about Mr Fs financial position.
Mr F has provided copy bank statements for the period leading up to this loan being 
approved, and therefore, I think its entirely reasonable to review this to see what 
Quidmarket may have discovered had it carried out what I consider to be proportionate 
checks.  
It wouldve likely discovered that in the month of November 2021, Mr F was advanced 
£1,750 from two other high-cost credit providers  excluding his Quidmarket loan. Therefore, 
indicating in the months ahead, Mr F would have new loan repayments that he would need 
to make. 
On top of this, I can see payments to two other high-cost short term loan providers, totalling 
£362.07 per month. He had another high-cost loan costing Mr F nearly £220 per month, a 
number of credit card payments. He was regularly utilising drawdowns and therefore having 
to make repayments to two flexible credit facilities  in November 2021 he made payments 
totalling over £400 to such facilities. On top of this, there are at least two payments in the month of November 2021 where the 
direct debits were returned as unpaid, likely due to insufficient funds. These were payments 
for what I believe to be car insurance and another one for a high-cost loan. And of course, 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook section 1.3.1 indicates missed direct payments are 
possible indicators of a consumer having financial difficulties. 
Quidmarket also mentions the overdraft, I dont know how much (if any) of it was interest 
free. But there would of course be a point where Mr F would be expected to repay these and 
or be charged interest on some or all the balance. But the presence of the overdraft has not 
impacted the outcome of this complaint because Im satisfied there is enough other 
information to have led Quidmarket to conclude it shouldnt have advanced this loan. 
So not only was Mr F already significantly overextended each month with his repayments  
and was continuing to take on new credit given a further £1,750 was advanced. He was also 
displaying signs of possible financial difficulties with missed Direct Debit payments. This 
ought to have led Quidmarket to conclude he couldnt afford to take on and repay loan 2 in a 
sustainable manner. 
In conclusion, I dont think Quidmarket carried out a proportionate check before granting this 
loan, and had it done so, it wouldve likely discovered he wasnt able to take on any new 
credit and Quidmarket ought to not have advanced the loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided Mr F with his second loan, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a 
viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidmarket shouldnt have given Mr F loan 2.
A. Quidmarket should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards 
interest, fees and charges on the loan.
B. Quidmarket should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr F which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr F originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C. Quidmarket should pay Mr F the total of A plus B.
D. Quidmarket should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Fs credit 
file in relation to loan 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. You should give Mr F 
a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket should put things right for Mr F as directed 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman