DRN-2278893
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (when it was trading as Egg) 
mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
The policy was sold to Mrs N when she applied online for a credit card in 2008.
Our adjudicator recommended upholding the complaint. Egg disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Egg says its process had no sales failings at the time of sale and the application screenshots 
clearly made it visible to Mrs N that she would have had to read the terms and conditions 
before continuing with the application. It says that Mrs N chose to apply and would have 
been aware that she may not be covered with her pre-existing condition.
Ive considered what Egg has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. This is 
because I dont think that the information Egg gave Mrs N about the exclusion for pre-
existing medical conditions was as clear as it shouldve been. 
There were limitations on claiming on the policy for a condition for which treatment or advice 
had been suggested by a doctor during the 12 month period running up to the policy start 
date if the condition re-occurred within 24 months of the start date. And for any chronic or 
continuing disease that the policy holder was aware of when the policy was taken out.
But Mrs N wouldve needed to open and scroll down onscreen through quite a substantial 
amount of small print to find this exclusion. Even if she had found it, Im not sure shed have 
appreciated how it applied to her circumstances and limited her ability to claim on the policy 
in all the circumstances she mightve reasonably expected. 
And I dont think its likely that she wouldve wanted to pay for this policy if Egg had given her 
enough information to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right for her.
Mrs N told us shed been affected by a condition that impacted on one of her major organs 
12 months before she applied for her Egg card. 
So it looks like the policy wording mightve made it difficult for her to claim successfully for 
any absence from work arising as a result of this condition re-occurring  at least for the first 
2 years after taking out the PPI (and possibly for longer if this turned out to be a chronic 
condition or continuing disease). 
But I dont think its likely that Mrs N wouldve been confident at the time that shed be 
unlikely to need to take time off work as a result of her medical condition. From what Mrs N 
has told us, I think that she wouldve had good reason to be concerned about possible 
recurrence or complications arising as this was a potentially serious condition. And I think 
she might reasonably have been worried that this could impact on her being able to work. 
I think Mrs N has lost out as a result of Eggs failings in this case as she paid for limited 
cover she probably wouldnt have wanted if Egg had given Mrs N clear enough information 
about the policy so shed understood that she mightnt be able to claim on the policy in all 
the circumstances she expected.
For these reasons, I think its fair and reasonable for me to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Egg should put Mrs N in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand the credit card account is now closed, so:
A. Egg should find out how much Mrs N would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Egg should then refund the difference between what Mrs N owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Egg can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. Egg should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs N would have 
owed when she closed her account - from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Egg works out what Mrs N would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs N paid more than enough to clear her balance, Egg should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs N paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs N wouldve owed Egg something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D. Egg should tell Mrs N what its done to work out A, B and C.
Egg can deduct from the redress shown above any commission amount relating to this PPI 
sale that it has already repaid to Mrs N.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Egg to take off tax from this interest. Egg must give 
Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
Canada Square Operations Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman