DRN-3889979
The complaint
Mr E complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) didnt provide the correct sum when 
he withdrew cash from a branch.
What happened
What Mr E says
Mr E needed to withdraw £5,000 in cash from one of his accounts with YBS and had to give 
them notice before he collected it. Arrangements were made and when he arrived for the 
appointment, he found that the cash wasnt ready. 
Mr E described how the person who served him at the counter didnt have enough funds in 
the till to meet the withdrawal and additional notes were collected from a different till, which 
Mr E believes was being operated by the branch manager. Mr E explained that his visit was 
during the pandemic, and he was uncomfortable with the proximity of other customers whilst 
he was discussing his financial affairs. 
The cashier counted the money into five envelopes and Mr E said he was distracted during 
the count due to the proximity of other customers, so lost his own count of what was being 
put into the envelopes.
Mr E left the branch and placed the envelopes into his safe at home. He didnt open them for 
a couple of months, but when he did, he found that each envelope was short by £100. Mr E 
believes that he was only given £4,500 instead of £5,000 by YBS. Mr E contacted YBS 
about the shortfall. Mr E asked if CCTV could be looked at and the staff checked who were 
on duty that day. YBS didnt accept that theyd made an error with the withdrawal and Mr E 
complained about the branch visit and how his complaint was handled. 
What YBS say
YBS explained that they needed notice before this type of withdrawal to ensure there was 
sufficient cash available in the branch. Their policy wasnt to pre-count the cash as it had to 
be counted in front of the customer at the point of withdrawal.
YBS said their process was to have two people count the cash and then a third time in front 
of the customer and their records didnt show that there had been any excess cash found at 
the branch and the tills used on the day were balanced.
YBS advised that by the time Mr E contacted them about the shortfall, the CCTV was no 
longer available.
YBS accepted that theyd let Mr E down with their handling of his visit and how they dealt 
with his complaint but didnt accept that theyd made an error when Mr E collected his cash.  
YBS issued a cheque for £140 to recognise the poor service hed received. 
The investigation so far
Mr E was left unhappy with how YBS had handled his complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of 
our investigators.
Mr E didnt think that during the withdrawal there were two staff who counted his funds (as 
per YBS policy) prior to the cashier counting it in front of him.
After considering the evidence the investigator didnt think that YBS had made an error when 
Mr E made his withdrawal and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr E disagreed and asked for a further review of his complaint which has now been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
YBS have stated their policy is to have two people count the cash prior to a third count in 
front of their customer at the counter. Mr E explained that on the day, he was served by one 
cashier, and he believed the other person at the counter was the manager of the branch and 
it appeared they were short staffed. Mr E disputed that the cash was counted by two people 
prior to the cashier completing the third count which contributed to the difference in what he 
was given.
It's difficult to be certain if two cashiers counted the cash prior to the third count, although the 
funds moving from one till to the other would, Im sure, be checked by both cashiers 
(whether thats the branch manager or a cashier). While there may be some doubt about 
whether two cashiers counted the full amount of the cash, its not in doubt that the cash was 
then counted in front of Mr E before it was placed into the envelopes.
Ive seen the till balance sheets, which would generally be the place that would show if any 
excess funds were present. As there wasnt anything on the till sheets, I can only conclude 
that they matched with what YBS expected based on the incomings and outgoings of cash 
that day. Also, there are additional staff that are involved in the checking of the tills, and Id 
be surprised if YBS didnt follow up at the time if theyd found such an excess of cash.
Mr E raised the possibility that staff at the branch were responsible for his loss of funds but 
theres no evidence to support this belief. I dont think this is the likely answer here because 
the cash was counted in front of him. I appreciate Mr E says he was distracted when he was 
counting along with the cashier, but it seems unlikely that a cashier would attempt to remove 
funds in front of Mr E, particularly when YBS have internal security controls including CCTV.
By the time Mr E brought his issue to YBS, they no longer had the CCTV because its only 
kept for a specific period of time, so I dont think its unreasonable that they were unable to 
review it when Mr E asked them to.
The evidence of the tills balancing and the long period of time between withdrawing the cash 
and reporting it leads me to believe that it was more likely than not that Mr E received the 
correct amount of cash when he withdrew it from the branch. Without stronger evidence to 
the contrary, Im unable to uphold this aspect of Mr Es complaint.
Ive also considered the redress paid by YBS for their handling of the branch visit and the 
complaint itself. I think the apology and the £140 payment was a reasonable way for YBS to 
deal with this level of service and I wont be asking them to do anything more. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman