DRN-3844519
The complaint
Mr L complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Hyundai Car 
Financial Services (Hyundai). 
What happened
Your text here In March 2019, Mr L acquired a car using a hire agreement from Hyundai. Mr 
L made an advanced payment of £283.20 which meant he had 35 remaining monthly rental 
payments of £283.20. Mr L had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000.
Following the collection of Mr Ls car at the end of the hire agreement, he received an 
invoice of £865 for the end of contract charges. The charges as detailed on the inspection 
report were:
-B post L scratched through paint £100
-B post R scratched minor dent £50
-C post L dent minor paint damage £50
-C post R dent paint damage £100
-Rear alloy wheel L corrosion/rust £65
-Service history incomplete £500
Mr L says he believes the damages were caused because of manufacturing defects. He also 
said that the service history was incorrect. So, in March 2022, Mr L disputed the charges and 
complained to Hyundai about them. 
In May 2022 Hyundai issued their final response to Mr Ls complaint. They upheld it in part. 
Hyundai explained that all the charges, besides the charge for a missing service, were 
applied fairly and in line with the terms of the agreement. Hyundai applied a £250 credit for a 
completed service to the outstanding account balance leaving Mr L with £615 to pay.
In June 2022 Hyundai issued a further response to Mr L in which they upheld concerns 
about the service they provided and so reduced Mr Ls outstanding account balance by a 
further £54.95 to £560.
Mr L told Hyundai that on reflection he was willing to pay £300 for the damage to the internal 
pillars but disputed the charge for the alloy damage and the missing service charge. Mr L 
also said that consideration should be given that he used less mileage than hed initially paid 
for on his agreement and so the value of the car would be higher than what had been initially 
estimated. The inspection report recorded the end of contract mileage as 11,785. 
In an email to Mr L in July 2022 Hyundai advised they werent able to settle the account for 
£300, so they didnt accept Mr Ls offer and reiterated that they believed the charges were 
raised correctly. 
Unhappy with Hyundais decision, Mr L brought his complaint to our service for investigation. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint and recommended that Mr Ls complaint 
should not be upheld. Our investigator felt the charges had been applied fairly and in line 
with the industry guidance.
Mr L disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for his complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman. Mr L says, in summary, that Hyundai had supplied him with a car that 
wasnt fit for purpose and that this point should be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Lease and Rental 
Association (BVLRA), and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear on passenger cars, when they are 
returned at the end of a finance agreement. 
In an email to our investigator following their view, Mr L said he didnt dispute that the 
charges were applied in accordance with the guidelines. Mr L also referred to this in an email 
to Hyundai in May 2022.  Mr L said he disputes the fairness of how the charges were 
applied, for example in receiving a car that was not fit for purpose or returning the car with 
considerably less mileage than the allowance that hed originally agreed and paid for. 
Both Hyundai and Mr L have agreed that the end of contract charges have been applied in 
accordance with the terms of the agreement. Having reviewed the inspection report and 
photos provided by Hyundai, and considered the guidance as set out in the BVRLA, Im 
satisfied that the damages highlighted on the inspection report, were beyond fair wear and 
tear guidance. Im also in agreement that Hyundai were right to remove a missing service 
charge having seen evidence that Mr L had a service carried out on the car in March 2021.
However, what appears to be in dispute is the fairness of applying the charges in light of the 
condition of the car, and information that was provided to Mr L by the servicing dealer. 
During a phone call to our investigator in September 2022, Mr L said he believed a 
manufacturing defect caused the corrosion to the alloy wheels and damage to the posts. Mr 
L also said he should have been told about the service timescale requirements. So, Ive 
focussed my decision on this.
Service history
The terms of Mr Ls hire agreement say that the vehicle must be serviced in accordance with 
the manufacturers recommended service intervals.The BVRLA supports this and also says, The service book, if originally supplied with the 
vehicle must be present and date-stamped by the repairer or workshop as evidence that the 
services have taken place. 
I acknowledge that Mr Ls main issue about the service charge is that he wasnt told by the 
servicing dealer about the servicing timescales. However As per the guidance Mr L was 
responsible for ensuring the services took place when they should have. Ive not seen any 
evidence of the interaction between Mr L and the servicing dealer, so Im unable to 
determine what information was shared with Mr L. Having said that, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to hold the servicing dealer responsible for Mr L having missed a service 
schedule. Ive not seen any guidance that suggests the servicing dealer has a responsibility 
for this. I think its fair that the responsibility for the cars maintenance lies with the hirer and 
in this case Mr L. So, Im satisfied that the servicing charges were applied fairly by Hyundai.
Manufacturing defects
Mr L says he believes manufacturing defects caused the damage to the paintwork and 
alloys. The consumer rights act 2015 is relevant in cases relating to the quality of goods 
supplied, and I recognise Mr Ls strength of feeling about this.
However, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr L complained to Hyundai about the quality of 
the car during the agreement. Ive also not seen any evidence that the car was defective, for 
example in the form of an expert report or inspection advising of faulty seatbelts systems or 
defective alloys. Overall, Mr L had a responsibility to maintain the car and repair any damage 
prior to its collection to avoid any related charge. So, with all things considered Im satisfied 
that the charges applied at the end of the contract were done so fairly and in line with the 
guidance and terms of the agreement.
As Ive concluded that the end of contract charges were applied fairly, as described in my 
decision, I dont require Hyundai to take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading 
as Hyundai Car Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman