DRN-3014755
The complaint
Mr L complained that Santander UK Plc were unfairly refusing to undo a payment hed made 
in error into his sons account.
What happened
On 26 February 2021, Mr L transferred just over £1,800 into his childs Junior ISA account 
by mistake. Mr L usually transferred this sum when he was paid each month to another 
Santander account in his own name, from which his bills and payments are taken. His childs 
Junior ISA is also held with Santander.
Mr L realised his mistake almost immediately. He contacted Santander as soon as they 
opened to get his money transferred back. They told him theyd do what they could to rectify 
the situation, but went on to let him know they werent able to transfer the funds out of his 
sons account.
A few days later Santander told Mr L they could not unwind the transaction as withdrawals 
were not permitted from a Junior ISA until the account holder reaches the age of 18, save for 
in specific circumstances (that dont apply here). They also referred to their terms. 
Mr L let us know hed had to borrow money from his mother who is retired as a 
consequence. He also let us know that his mother needs him to repay her as soon as 
possible, as she is in real need and he has only been able to afford token repayments. He 
understood Santander had terms in place but stressed he made the same transfer every 
month, so this was clearly a mistake and he thought an exception could be made.
An investigator at this service concluded that although it was clear this was a genuine 
mistake, Santander couldnt return the funds to Mr L. She also thought Santander had 
provided Mr L with accurate information. For these reasons, although sympathetic to his 
circumstances, she wasnt able to conclude Santander were able to remove the funds from 
Mr Ls sons Junior ISA and into Mr Ls account. Mr L asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen, I agree broadly with the investigator, and for the same 
reasons. Id like to express my sympathy with Mr Ls position and I appreciate my decision 
will be disappointing to Mr L and to his mother, who needs the funds she lent Mr L following 
the error.
Its clear this was a genuine mistake. I accept Mr L usually transfers his wages monthly. And 
what happened here wasnt intended. Unfortunately because the funds went into his sons 
Junior ISA, there isnt anything Santander can do, there are strict rules in place about 
withdrawals from a Junior ISA.
The UK government website provides information on what a provider (here Santander) can 
and cant do in circumstances like these. It sets out:
When a Junior ISA provider [here Santander] receives a request to reverse a 
Junior ISA subscription, that was paid into a Junior ISA in error by a parent of a child... they 
[Santander] should inform the person their subscription is a gift to a child and it cannot be 
repaid.
The lock-in nature of the Junior ISA means that subscriptions made by parents into a 
Junior ISA cannot be repaid or reversed under any circumstances (except those detailed 
at when can investments be withdrawn from a Junior ISA because the subscription is a gift 
to the child.
Cash may be deposited into the Junior ISA of an unconnected child in error. This could be 
the result of an error made by the bank or by the customer moving the money. HMRC 
understand that if the error is spotted immediately  for example a bank keying error  the 
bank may be able to reverse the transaction and correct both accounts.
These rules are reflected in the terms Santander provided in relation to their Junior ISA 
accounts.
I understand why this might feel unfair and frustrating to Mr L. As the money was wrongly 
transferred into his own childs Junior ISA, Santander are not permitted to withdraw the 
funds. If it had wrongly gone into another unconnected childs account, they might have been 
able to. There are very limited circumstances when the rules allow payments (subscriptions) 
into a Junior ISA to be withdrawn. None of the circumstances apply here.
Santander havent done anything wrong, and I accept they provided Mr L with accurate 
information. Unfortunately, Santander cant make an exception here, as the rules around 
Junior ISAs dont allow for this. For this reason, I am unable to conclude I can require 
Santander to do anything different.
My final decision
I am unable to uphold Mr Ls complaint about Santander UK Plc as Ive explained. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my 
decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman