DRN-3441293
The complaint
Mr S complains Blackstone Financial Management Ltd (Blackstone) havent provided him 
with the ongoing service hes paid for. Hes also concerned the ongoing fees hes paying are 
in excess of the regular premium hes making into his pension. He doesnt feel this or the 
charges overall were clearly explained at the outset.
What happened
In August 2017, Mr S sought retirement planning advice from Blackstone. At the time, he 
held a personal pension plan with L&G that Blackstone subsequently advised he move to 
Aviva. At the same time, Blackstone would then provide an ongoing service to him. His 
objectives were noted in the suitability report that was issued the following month as:
Review your existing pensions
To take £20,000 from your pension fund at age 55 (next year)
To receive professional advice and regular reviews of your pension arrangements.
At the time of the meeting, he signed a Fee and Service Client Agreement that set out what 
he could expect from Blackstone for the charges he would pay.
Over the course of the next three years, Blackstone claim they provided an ongoing service 
to Mr S by undertaking desk-top annual reviews and sharing information with him about the 
markets and economy. They also claim to have provided other ancillary services too.
In September 2020, Mr S submitted a complaint to Blackstone. He explained he was 
concerned Blackstone were taking an ongoing fee that exceeded the regular premium he 
was making into his pension. He felt that Blackstone hadnt made their initial and ongoing 
charges clear. He didnt think that was fair. He also explained that he didnt think hed 
received the service he should have for the fee that he had paid. He felt Blackstone should 
have offered him another ongoing service proposal for his Aviva pension that was more cost 
effective. He said Blackstone hadnt reviewed his pension over the last 3 years.
Mr S decided to end the ongoing relationship with Blackstone at that point.
Blackstone issued its final response letter on 3 November 2020. They stated:
They had explained what their fee agreement options were at the outset of the relationship. 
They said Mr S was provided with a detailed breakdown of what the costs were tailored 
directly for him. They went on to say:
The way they apply their charges is in line with industry standards.
He was provided with regular statements showing what the costs were.
The make-up of Mr Ss investment portfolio was regularly reviewed.
They had written to Mr S after conducting a desk based annual review.
Dissatisfied, Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
Blackstone told this service they believed Mr Ss case was without merit and provided 
evidence of the information they had sent to him during the course of their relationship along 
with details of how theyd made clear what their charges were.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He concluded that he didnt think 
Blackstone had done anything wrong. He was satisfied the charges were made clear to Mr S 
at both the outset and during the course of the relationship. He also reviewed the 
documentation Blackstone claimed to have sent Mr S. When he compared that to the service 
agreement Mr S had signed up to at the outset, our investigator determined Blackstone had 
done what it had committed to.
Mr S however, disagreed with our investigators findings. In summary, he said the following:
There was a huge difference between what Blackstone were saying theyd sent him and 
what hed received.
Hes never spoken to anyone at Blackstone since they set the pension up.
He didnt feel taking a charge that was in excess of his monthly premium was in his best 
interests.
Mr S then asked to have a telephone discussion with our investigator to discuss his findings 
and set out his concerns. Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view after 
talking to Mr S as he did not present any new arguments hed not already considered.
Mr S asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
Blackstone didnt provide any further submissions.
As part of my assessment of Mr Ss complaint, I have also listened to the recording of the 
call between our investigator and Mr S. During the call, Mr S repeated the same concerns 
hed already set in writing to our investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When complaining to this service, Mr S also expressed concern the original advice to 
transfer his personal pension from Legal & General to Aviva was flawed and inappropriate. 
Hes since clarified with our investigator he believes the transfer advice was appropriate so, I 
have not considered that aspect of his complaint within my findings.
I believe theres two core issues at the heart of this complaint, whether the fees Blackstone 
charged were clear and, whether Mr S got the service he paid for.
Issue 1: Costs and Charges
The starting point in determining what must be disclosed to a consumer ahead of any 
transaction taking place are the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules the regulator had in 
place at the time of the meeting. There were two charging components to Mr Ss pension 
advice, the initial costs of arranging the transfer and then, the subsequent ongoing fees., COBS 6.1A.19 (from 31 December 2012) states: In order to meet the requirement in the rule 
on information disclosure before providing services, a firm should ensure that the disclosure 
of its charging structure is in clear and plain language and, as far as is practicable, uses 
cash terms. 
In respect of the ongoing payment of adviser charges, COBS 6.1A.22 (from 6 April 2016 
states: A firm must not use an adviser charge which is structured to be payable by the retail 
client over a period of time unless (1) or (2) applies:
1. the adviser charge is in respect of an ongoing service for the provision of personal 
recommendations or related services and:
(a) the firm has disclosed that service along with the adviser charge; and
(b) the retail client is provided with a right to cancel the ongoing service, which must be 
reasonable in all the circumstances, without penalty and without requiring the retail client 
to give any reason; or
2. the adviser charge relates to a retail investment product or arrangement with an operator 
of an electronic system in relation to lending for which an instruction from the retail client 
for regular payments is in place and the firm has disclosed that no ongoing personal 
recommendation or service will be provided.
At their meeting in August 2017, Blackstone provided Mr S with a copy of their Fees and 
Services Client Agreement form. That document explained the costs of the services 
Blackstone were providing was chargeable at 1% of funds under our management or £1,000 
whichever is the greater. It also provided an example, the cost of our standard service plan 
for assets under our management of £150,000, the Adviser Charge due would be £1500.
The agreement which he signed on 10 August 2017 also provided a tailored indicative cost 
of providing the ongoing service, which was ticked to accept the option; 1% of funds under 
management  deducted monthly. Based on a value of £200,852 this equates to fee of 
£2,008.52 pa. This is to be paid by the provider of your pension arrangements.
The suitability report dated 20 September 2017 also set out the costs Mr S could expect to 
pay. There was a section titled Remuneration. That explained:
We have discussed how I can be remunerated for my advice and services  I refer you to 
our Client Agreement for further details. In respect to the recommendation contained within 
the report, we have agreed that I will be remunerated as follows. Where the annual fee is 
based on a percentage it will increase or decrease in line with the value of the investment.
The initial fee was then noted as 1% of the fund equating to £2,008. It also stated the annual 
method of remuneration was via adviser charging at 1%, therefore totalling £2,008.
The suitability report went on to state: You have selected an on-going service primarily 
focused on the recommendation provided in this report. We agreed I will contact you to 
review your financial arrangements once a year. The current charge for this service is 1% 
per annum of the amount invested. However, you can opt out of this on-going service at any 
time. I refer you to our Client agreement for further information regarding our service 
proposition.
Within the file, there is evidence of both a pre-sale and post-sale illustration that reflect the 
ongoing adviser charges that were agreed with Mr S.In September 2018, Aviva wrote directly to Mr S with a letter entitled Charges information. 
In it, they showed the initial charges, confirmed the ongoing charges and covered the 
associated investment charges. The letter shows Aviva were paying Mr Ss adviser 1% of 
the product wrapper value.
Regular statements were also issued by Aviva directly to Mr S at his home address. The file 
shows, they sent those to him on a quarterly basis. As well as the investment and wrapper 
costs, the statements show the ongoing adviser fee. The earliest statement on file dates 
back to the period covering the time from when Mr S transferred his monies to Aviva, 
through to the end of 2017. Mr S states he didnt notice the ongoing fee until he saw it on a 
statement. He said he cancelled the ongoing service in September 2020.
Theres a broad spectrum of evidence demonstrating Blackstone made their annual costs 
very clear to Mr S, both in percentage and monetary terms. Not only that, those costs were 
also independently highlighted to Mr S by Aviva on a regular basis through the quarterly 
statements they sent him. Mr S states in his complaint to this service that a breakdown of all 
costs, both adviser and pension company was not provided which would have greatly 
influenced decision making. I am however, satisfied both before and during the course he 
held the relationship with Blackstone, the costs were clearly set out to him. I am also 
satisfied the format in which the information was presented to him met the expectations of 
the Regulator. Having also seen evidence of an email on file from 2017 that demonstrates 
Mr S was aware he could cancel the ongoing arrangement at any time leads me to conclude 
Blackstone have acted appropriately in their dealings with Mr S around his concerns linked 
to costs. 
In his complaint to this service, Mr S states that he was paying adviser charges of £172.84 
per month along with a wrapper charge of £60.50 per month. In total, his pension fund was 
paying £233.34 each month in costs, subject to variances in the underlying fund values. At 
the same time, he was paying a regular contribution of £150 which, when tax relief was 
added amounted to £187.50 per month. Mr S believes there is a net monthly loss to his fund 
of £83.34, ignoring the tax relief. He feels those costs are unfair. He also said in his 
complaint, a better option for me would have been to not take up the service at all which 
would have resulted in pension performance being based on asset growth and positive net 
contribution.
Its not within the remit of this service to dictate what fees an adviser can charge their clients 
or compare them to other providers. As long as those fees are made clear to consumers 
prior to proceeding with any recommendation and cover at least the minimum expectations 
prescribed by the Regulator, its a commercial decision between the business and customer. 
Ive already determined Blackstone provided Mr S with clear information on charges. Theres 
no regulatory requirement that ongoing fees must be lower than a consumers ongoing 
premium; if that were the case, a client with a considerably large fund would benefit from 
paying a very small, token premium to keep their costs down. The nature of the ongoing fee 
charged by Blackstone is not uncommon in the industry and its clear in my opinion Mr S was 
given all the necessary information to make an informed decision about whether to continue 
paying the fee throughout the relationship or not. The service agreement he signed with 
Blackstone confirmed the arrangement could be terminated at any time and he was under no 
obligation to take an ongoing service with them in the first place.
Issue 2: Whether Blackstone provided the service Mr S paid for.
In considering the other element of Mr Ss complaint, its important to understand the nature 
of the service he originally signed up for with Blackstone to determine whether he got what 
he paid for. Whilst this may not necessarily be the response Mr S was hoping for, I dont think 
Blackstone have done anything wrong. Ill explain why below.
The agreement Mr S signed between him and Blackstone stated he would be entitled to the 
following:
a) An invitation to an annual face to face meeting.
b) Review and implement any changes to investments, where this is appropriate to your 
current goals and objectives. 
c) Annual financial valuation of your assets with our firm. 
d) Online access to Platform/wrap holdings where appropriate. 
e) Taxation advice on extracting capital and income; upon request and where appropriate. 
f) A regular newsletter updating you on current financial issues, where we hold a valid 
email address. 
g) Summaries of the Chancellors budgets & statements, where we hold a valid e-mail 
address. 
h) Liaison with other professionals as required e.g. third parties such as solicitors and 
accountants upon request and where appropriate. 
i)Access to a personal support administrator; and 
j)Client file maintenance.
As the original advice to transfer the L&G pension to Aviva was formalised in September 
2017, Mr S shouldve expected an invitation to an annual meeting in or around September 
2018. Blackstone have provided a letter to this service showing they wrote to him in 
November 2018. That letter invited Mr S to call the adviser if he would like them to undertake 
a full financial review meeting. In addition, it asked him to let Blackstone know of any 
changes to his circumstances that may impact their original recommendation. It stated theyd 
use the existing information they held to complete their assessment if they didnt hear from 
him. Their letter included an update on his pension performance, information on their 
investment solutions, an update on the financial markets and two articles linked to financial 
service.
A further review letter was issued in October 2019. This one was framed slightly differently to 
the November 2018 letter. Rather than inviting Mr S to a review, it suggested a desktop 
review has been undertaken and, if Mr Ss circumstances were still the same, concluded the 
plan remained suitable for his circumstances. It gave an overview of his plan performance 
and asked him to get in touch if he had any queries. There is a handwritten note on the front 
page of the letter stating 17/10/19 Rang client, no reply, left voicemail. 
A review wasnt undertaken in October 2020 because Mr S had cancelled the ongoing 
service agreement the previous month. I dont think it was reasonable to expect Blackstone 
to undertake one at that point as Mr S was no longer a client of theirs and having removed 
them as Servicing Agent on his plan, they would not have had access to the necessary 
information to undertake a review anyway. Whilst it may have been beneficial for Blackstone 
to follow up their letters with an email when they failed to hear back from Mr S, Im satisfied 
Blackstone met their obligation in respect of (a) above.I do however wish to recognise Im faced with differing accounts of whats happened on this 
complaint; Mr S is saying he didnt receive any information from the adviser during the 
course of the relationship, but Blackstone are stating the opposite. In reaching my decision, 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence on the file and that includes various letters 
addressed to Mr S, mailing lists that show his details and email correspondence that was 
sent to him. I think it is more likely than not Blackstone sent him the information. I have no 
reason to doubt it wasnt sent or, that Blackstone had any motivation not to send it. The 
premise being, its in their interest to keep Mr S as a customer so they could continue to 
collect a fee. 
Ive also looked at the postal address, phone number and email address noted in the fact-
find that Blackstone completed with Mr S in 2017. Its the same as that used in the complaint 
form to this service. We know that Mr S received statements from Aviva as he made 
reference to them in his complaint correspondence. The address on those statements match 
the review letters Blackstone claim to have sent to Mr S. In addition, there is much evidence 
on file of Mr S and Blackstone exchanging emails. Having seen Blackstones full mail merge 
marketing list with Mr Ss details on it, I cant foresee why he would have been excluded 
from receiving correspondence from them.
In respect of the other elements of the service Blackstone should have provided Mr S, I have 
seen evidence of email correspondence between them both concerning support around 
correcting errors on the collection of regular premiums, Inheritance Tax advice and help 
being provided when alterations were needed to the beneficiaries on the pension. I have 
also seen literature that Blackstone claim was sent to Mr S from their mailing list. Blackstone 
have explained they also supported Mr S with referrals to a Mortgage Specialist and Will 
writing service.
In his complaint to this service, Mr S stated the information he received from Blackstone was 
unnecessarily complex and useless to a layman. Whilst I dont propose to comment on the 
quality of the financial markets information provided to Blackstones clients in my response, 
from his statement, Mr S therefore does acknowledge he received at least some information. 
Blackstone have explained to this service that no alterations were necessary to the 
underlying investments within Mr Ss portfolio over the course of the three years he used 
their service. They confirmed they were content with the performance of his funds. I dont 
necessarily believe the absence of a change to the funds demonstrates that Blackstone 
werent doing the job they were being paid to do. Its not unusual for investments to be 
purchased and held for the longer term. Its also important to acknowledge Mr Ss monies 
were invested in a small spread of managed life funds as opposed to being in a discretionary 
managed solution, the latter of which I wouldve expected to have seen greater trading on.
Mr S only appeared to receive a Chancellors Budget report once in the duration of the 
relationship. I dont believe the materiality of Blackstone failing to provide one to Mr S in 
2019 or 2020 impacts significantly enough on the wider service delivered under the 
agreement as overall, I am satisfied that Blackstone did what it said it would.
I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred. However, in this instance, I dont think Blackstone 
has done anything wrong and as such, I will not be asking it to take any action.My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman