DRN-2948613
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined the claim she made on her 
landlord insurance policy, after her tenants found mould growth.
 What happened
Ageas is the insurer that underwrites the policy, so its the business thats responsible for the 
claim and complaint. As such, I will simply refer to Ageas when referring to the actions of the 
parties who handled the claim on its behalf.
Mrs S contacted Ageas after her tenants found mould in a bedroom. Mrs S obtained quotes 
from three contractors, and she understood the issue was being caused by condensation. 
Ageas considered the damage under Mrs Ss accidental damage cover. However, Ageas 
declined the claim as the policy excludes gradual damage.
Mrs S went on to submit a report from her contractor. He explained that after removing vinyl 
wallpaper, water damage was found, which prompted further investigation. He said a small 
area of leadwork had been ripped by falling slates (which he referred to as storm damage), 
and this had allowed rainwater to ingress. He concluded this was the cause of the mould, 
rather than condensation. He noted the water damage had been hidden behind the vinyl 
wallpaper, and he thought there had been several months of water ingress. He quoted 
£1,300 for the external and internal repairs.
Ageas maintained its decision to decline the claim. It noted the damage was still gradual and 
there had been no storm conditions reported in the area at the time of the claim. One of our 
investigators didnt think Ageas had unfairly declined the claim. Because Mrs S remained 
unhappy, her complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision, 
explaining that I intended to uphold the complaint. In my provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ill go on to consider Ageas decision to decline the storm damage claim. But Ill first address 
its initial claim decision, after Mrs S reported the issue to be condensation.
Mrs Ss policy covers specific events, but condensation is not one of those events. The only 
covered event such damage could reasonably be considered under, is accidental damage. 
But as per the policy definition for accidental damage, this covers sudden events which 
occur at a single identifiable time. 
Mould growth caused by condensation isnt sudden or from a single event; its gradual. So, 
Im satisfied such damage doesnt meet the policy definition of accidental damage, and 
Ageas fairly declined the claim in the first instance.
Storm damage is an event thats covered by the policy. There are three conditions that need 
to be met before this service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those 
are: 
Was there a storm?
Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed Mrs Ss complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind.
Mrs Ss policy doesnt define what a storm is. So, when reviewing the local weather records, 
Ive kept in mind our general approach. 
Its my understanding that Ageas only reviewed weather records for the week before the 
claim was made. I dont consider that to be reasonable, given the contractor thought the 
water ingress had been ongoing for several months and he reported leadwork had been 
ripped by falling slates.
Having checked weather records, Ive seen there were 49mph wind speeds recorded about 
six weeks before the claim was made. This service generally considers such winds speeds 
to be a storm. Given falling slates is damage typical of that caused by storm winds, 
I consider it reasonable to give Mrs S the benefit of doubt here.
In terms of whether the slates were the main cause of the damage to the leadwork, all I have 
to go on is Mrs Ss report. I find the report credible, and in the absence of anything else, it 
follows that Im persuaded by it. Therefore, I intend to decide Ageas should cover the 
external repairs. 
I also intend to decide Ageas should cover the internal repairs. Although I acknowledge the 
water ingress happened over a period of time, Im persuaded the proximate cause was 
storm winds, which caused tiles to fall and damage leadwork. 
This service generally takes the approach that it isnt fair for an insurer to rely on its gradual 
damage exclusion when the cause of the damage is an event covered by the policy, unless 
the insured was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of the problem. Mrs Ss 
report explains the water damage was hidden behind vinyl wallpaper. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded she ought reasonably to have been aware there was a problem and acted 
sooner. As such, I dont consider the gradual damage exclusion can fairly be applied.
So, in conclusion, I intend to decide Ageas should pay Mrs S £1,300 to settle the claim, less 
the applicable policy excess. Ageas should also add 8% simple interest per annum, from the 
date Mrs S paid for the works, to the date of settlement. I also intend to award Mrs S £100, 
for the inconvenience caused.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. However, Mrs S clarified the repairs shes 
claiming for cost £1,115 (rather than £1,300).
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither party has provided further comments or evidence for me to consider. Having 
reconsidered the information that was previously provided, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
However, it follows that the settlement award has been reduced to £1,115 as per Mrs Ss 
clarification.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. My 
final decision is Ageas Insurance Limited should:
- settle the claim for £1,115 (less the policy excess, if applicable);
- pay Mrs S 8% simple interest1 per annum on the claim settlement, from the date she 
paid her contractors invoice, to the date of settlement; and
- pay Mrs S £100 compensation
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman
1If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mrs S how much it has taken off. If requested, Ageas should 
also provide Mrs S with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so she can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.