DRN-2359140
Complaint
Miss P has complained about a hire-purchase agreement that she entered into with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading as Audi Finance). Shes being 
assisted in her complaint by her grandmother (Ms B) who says it was not responsible to 
lend as there was no way Miss P could afford the repayments.
Background
In September 2017, Miss P entered into a hire purchase agreement for a brand-new car. 
The purchase price was £23,460.00. Miss P paid a deposit of £4,800, which included £1,800 
from the part-exchange of her previous vehicle and a dealer contribution of £900. The 
remaining £18,660.00 was funded through a hire-purchase loan from Audi. The loan had an 
annual percentage rate (APR) of 5.9% and was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments 
of £256.12 followed by a final instalment of £9,670.00, which included a £10 option to 
purchase fee. 
In June 2019, Miss P complained to Audi. She said the monthly payments for the agreement 
were more than she could afford. Audi didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. It said that its 
checks confirmed that the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. Miss P 
was dissatisfied at Audis response and referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think the checks 
Audi carried out before providing the finance were reasonable and proportionate. He also 
thought reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown Miss P couldnt afford to 
make the monthly payments. This led to him concluding that Audi unfairly entered into the 
hire purchase agreement with Miss P and that the complaint should be upheld. Audi didnt 
agree with our investigator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and law, and considering the main reason 
for Miss Ps complaint, I think there are two overarching questions that I needed to consider 
in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These 
questions are:
Did Audi complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss P 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss P wouldve been able to do so?
Did Audi act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in some other way?
If I determine that Audi did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss P and that 
she has lost out as a result, Ill go on to consider whats fair compensation.
Ill proceed to consider the first of the overarching questions.
Did Audi complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss P would be 
able to repay in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place when Audi lent to Miss P required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Miss P could afford to make her repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
Any affordability checks have to be borrower-focused  so Audi had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss P. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Audi to think only about the likelihood that it would get its 
money back without considering the impact of repayment on Miss P herself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check generally ought to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for a longer 
period); and 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
should be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps between loans. Ive thought about all the relevant factors in this case.
Audis checks
Before I consider Audis checks in detail, I do have some general observations about what it 
initially told Miss P and then us while investigating the complaint. In its final response Audi 
says there is an onus on the customer to ensure that an agreement is financially affordable 
for them before application. But this simply isnt true for a couple of reasons. 
Firstly, a borrower usually wont be in a position to know what the payments are to an 
agreement before the process is started and they are provided with a quote. And more 
importantly, as Ive already mentioned, it is a regulatory requirement for a lender to take 
reasonable steps to establish a prospective borrower will be able to repay what they are being lent  not just whether the borrower meets its lending criteria. Of course, a borrower 
meeting a lenders lending criteria might be an indication that the payments may be 
affordable. But it wont always follow that this is the case.     
I now turn to the checks Audi says it carried out in this particular case. It seems to me that, in 
this particular case, Audis checks were limited to carrying out a credit check on Miss P. I 
accept that a credit check will often provide some useful information on whether a 
prospective borrower was able to maintain payments to previous credit commitments. And in 
circumstances where a prospective borrower has met previous commitments and no obvious 
difficulties, this in turn could provide a lender with additional confidence that the prospective 
borrower will be able to make their payments. Notwithstanding this, I have to question the 
usefulness of carrying out a credit check on Miss P in this particular case. 
I say this because this credit check appears to have been carried out the day after Miss Ps 
eighteenth birthday and so was very unlikely to show up any previous credit bearing in mind 
lenders typically wont advance credit to individuals aged under eighteen. Audi would , or at 
the very least, ought to have known this and so Im struggling to understand what it is it was 
expecting to uncover in a credit check. 
More importantly Im unsure what a clear credit file, in these circumstances, could possibly 
have told Audi about Miss Ps ability to repay approaching £18,700.00 at roughly £250 a 
month. Miss P might not have had previous difficulty repaying credit  because she never 
had any  and she may not have had any existing credit commitments to maintain. But this 
doesnt in itself mean she had the disposable income to make the repayments to this 
agreement as and when they fell due. 
In the absence of anything else to indicate that Audi took any further steps to ascertain   
Miss Ps monthly expenditure, and in circumstances where I cant see that it even recorded 
what her income was, Im not satisfied that the checks Audi carried out before reaching the 
conclusion the agreement was affordable for Miss P were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not have shown that Miss P 
was able to sustainably make the repayments to this agreement?
As proportionate checks werent carried out before this agreement was provided, I cant say 
for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that 
a proportionate check would have told Audi that it was unfair to enter into this agreement 
with Miss P. 
Miss P has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied 
for the finance. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Miss P has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Audi mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything 
else from Audi showing what this information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Miss Ps financial 
circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
To be clear, Ive not looked at Miss Ps bank statements because I think that Audi ought to 
have obtained them before lending to her. Ive consulted Miss Ps bank statements because 
they were readily available at this stage and they contain the information I now need to 
reconstruct the proportionate check Audi should have but failed to carry out. 
Miss Ps contract of employment says she had a basic annual income of around £5,000.00. 
In the months leading up to the application Miss Ps bank statements show that she was in receipt of an average of around £550 a month. Its clear that the monthly payments alone for 
the finance would have swallowed up a significant portion of Miss Ps monthly income. 
Audi would also have been aware that Miss Ps age and the brand-new car she was sold 
meant that shed also be faced with a significant outlay for insurance. And when the running 
costs of the vehicle are added to monthly finance payments, its clear that Miss Ps had 
nowhere near enough in funds to meet the cost of this vehicle in a sustainable manner.
So in these circumstances, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
alerted Audi to the fact that Miss P wasnt able to make the payments to this agreement 
without experiencing financial difficulty and/or borrowing further. And so it follows that she 
wasnt in any sort of financial position to sustainably make the repayments to this 
agreement.     
Did Audi act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that 
leads me to think Audi acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in some other way.
Conclusions
Overall and having thought about the two overarching questions, set out on pages 1 and 2 of 
this decision, I find that:
Audi didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss P to satisfy itself 
that she was able to make the payments to this agreement; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Miss P 
was unable to sustainably make the repayments to this hire purchase agreement;
Audi didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Miss P; 
The above findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that Audi unfairly and 
unreasonably entered into this hire purchase agreement with Miss P.
Did Miss P lose out as a result of Audis shortcomings?
Ive considered whether Miss P suffered adverse consequences as a result of Audi unfairly 
entering into this hire purchase agreement with her. As I understand it the car was taken 
back by the dealer in November 2019 and Miss P ended up paying an additional amount so 
that the voluntary termination settlement figure was reached. Given Miss P will have paid a 
significant amount and was left without a vehicle  as a result of returning it - I think Miss P 
lost out.
So overall and having thought about everything provided and whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this case, I find that Miss P lost out because Audi unfairly entered 
into a hire purchase agreement, which it ought to have realised was unaffordable for her, 
with her. And this means I think that Audi needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Audi needs to do to put things right for Miss P
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Audi putting Miss P in 
the position shed now be in if she hadnt been sold the car in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Miss P 
was given the car in question and in has since been returned to the dealer. So, in these 
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. And its simply not possible to put 
Miss P back in the position she would be in if she hadnt been sold the car in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Audi to put things right in the 
following way.
Our website sets out the main things we consider when looking at putting things right in 
cases where we conclude a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable 
lending complaints. We usually say that the borrower needs pay back the credit amount 
provided and that the lender should refund any interest, fees and charges that the borrower 
paid. This is because the borrower will have had the benefit of the credit that they were 
provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above this  any interest fees and 
charges  that will have caused the consumer to lose out. 
So, in this case, this would mean Miss P paying back the £18,660.00 she was originally lent 
less the amount that the car was sold for But I dont think that a refund of the interest fees 
and charges is appropriate here. The car was taken back relatively soon after the agreement 
started and a settlement on this basis would mean Miss P paying for the full amount lent 
without owning the car at the end. Ive therefore given careful thought to how else it might be 
fair and reasonable to put things right for Miss P bearing in mind she was provided with a 
hire-purchase agreement here. 
In circumstances where a borrower was provided with finance to purchase a car they were 
unable to afford to make the payments for, its usually appropriate for the car to be returned 
and the agreement ended. Ive already explained that Miss Ps car was returned to the 
dealer who sold it to her in November 2019 and the agreement was ended at this point. So 
clearly there is no need for Miss P to now return the car. But Audi does need to write off the 
monthly payment the statement of account suggests is outstanding. 
Ive also thought about the deposit and the final payment Miss P made. Its clear that Miss P 
only made these payments because she was provided with an unaffordable hire purchase 
agreement. So Im satisfied that Miss Ps deposit of £3,900 (not including the dealer 
contribution of £900) and the additional final payment of £3,750 (irrespective of the exact 
make up of this amount) should be returned to Miss P, with interest of 8% simple a year 
added from the date these payments were made.  
Miss P did have use of the car for a period of time. And I think that its fair and reasonable for 
my award to reflect this. There isnt an exact formula for working out fair usage. But in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the 
agreement, Miss Ps usage of the car and what sort of costs she might have incurred to stay 
mobile if she didnt have this car. In doing so, Im mindful that although Miss P did already 
have a car when she entered into this agreement, she was nonetheless provided with a 
brand-new car and she will receive a refund of the part exchange value which was used as a 
deposit towards this agreement. 
Bearing this in mind, and the monthly cost a car of the type Miss P had use of isnt too far off 
the amount of the monthly repayment, I think that its fair and reasonable for Audi to keep all of the monthly payments it collected while Miss P had use of the car. I want to make it clear 
that by collected Im saying that anything paid prior to the additional final payment of £3,750 
(which Ive confirmed needs to go back in its entirety to Miss P) Miss P made after the car 
had already been returned in November 2019.
I now turn to Miss Ps credit file. Generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any 
adverse information recorded on a consumers credit file as a result of any credit they 
shouldnt have been given. Ive not seen anything in this case which leads me to think such 
a direction would be unfair here.
So having carefully thought about everything, Audi should remove any negative information 
that it has recorded on Mss Ps credit file about this agreement. 
All of this means that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Ps complaint 
for Audi to put things right in the following way:
Refund Miss Ps deposit of £3,900 and the additional final payment of £3,750 with 
interest of 8% simple per year; AND
Removing any adverse information it has recorded about this agreement on Miss Ps 
credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint. Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services should put things right in the way 
that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman