DRN-1687251
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the poor service she received from Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited ('L&G') which she said has caused her distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mrs S started a portfolio bond with L&G with an initial investment of £67,000 in 2009. In 
2010, she made a further investment of £63,000 and a final investment of £20,000 in 
2012. In respect of the first two investments Mrs S received monthly payments of £278 and 
£261 respectively. In addition, over the years, she made withdrawals via partial surrenders.
By 2019 the combination of withdrawals and partial surrenders eroded the first investment to 
the point where there was no longer enough money to support Mrs S's monthly payments. 
Mrs S received the last payment from the first investment in May 2019. In respect of 
the second investment, L&G wrote to her in July 2019 letting her know that her monthly 
payments would reduce by £17.45 in August 2019 - another letter was enclosed dated 29 
May 2019 informing Mrs S of the same thing. L&G said the reduction was due to three partial 
surrenders she made in 2010 but this wasn't picked up until 2019.
Mrs S followed up L&G's letter with a call on 12 July 2019 seeking explanations as to why 
she hadn't received the letter dated 29 May until July, and why her payments were reducing 
and/ or had stopped. The L&G call handler was unable to provide answers but undertook to 
escalate the matter. During the call he told Mrs S that she'd a nil balance on her account. 
This information was incorrect and on the same day he called to let Mrs S know this. L&G 
then wrote to Mrs S letting her know her current balance was, in fact, £87,633.
Unhappy with the L&G's service Mrs S made a complaint. In summary, she said:
L&G hadn't given her notice of her monthly payments reducing until July 2019, and 
she didn't know why she hadn't received the letter dated 29 May;
She didn't understand why she hadn't received her monthly payments from her first 
investment due in June and July 2019;
She was very upset about the incorrect information she was told during the call.
 
In summary L&G responded as follows:
In terms of Mrs S's first investment, it should've let her know sooner that she'd 
receive no further payments after 10 May 2019. But this wasn't picked up by its 
withdrawal team due to her additional investments;
In terms of the second investment, its systems showed it sent Mrs S a letter on 29 
May and another letter was sent in July, enclosing a copy of its earlier letter - the July 
letter was generated because the amendment was soon to take effect;
It acknowledged that the call handler made a mistake.
 L&G apologised for the errors it made and offered £200, which it increased to £350, for the 
trouble and upset its poor service had caused Mrs S. Mrs S was unhappy with L&G's 
responses and offer, so she brought her complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. Whilst she acknowledged the trouble and 
upset L&G's mistakes had caused Mrs S, overall she considered its offer of £350 was fair.
Mrs S disagreed. She didn't think L&G had provided clear answers to her questions and 
considered that an offer of £500 would be a fairer reflection of  the distress caused. So the 
matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Before I explain my findings, I should emphasise that while I've taken note of the extensive 
arguments and comments made by Mrs S, I've limited my responses to the issues I consider 
to be central to this complaint. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute 
about what happened, I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities - in other 
words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
I can see a letter sent in July 2019 included a copy of a letter dated 29 May 2019. Mrs S 
says she only received both letters in July. I've no reason to doubt Mrs S account but I can 
see L&G's records do show it sent the letter on 29 May. I can also see that it was correctly 
addressed. So on balance I'm satisfied that L&G did send the letter to Mrs S when it said it 
did. In any event, even if Mrs S doesn't recall receiving the letter in May, she did receive the 
same letter in July. This was a month before the reductions were due to take effect. So in the 
round, I'm satisfied that L&G did give Mrs S sufficient notice of relevant reductions and I 
don't think it did anything wrong in this respect.
L&G did, however, make a mistake by not informing Mrs S about the payments coming to an 
end in respect of her first investment. I can see this did cause her upset and confusion as 
she only discovered the payments had stopped via her bank statements. And taken together 
with the mistake that was made during the call on 12 July, where Mrs S was incorrectly told 
that she had a nil balance when she had substantially more than this, I think compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience is due. So I need to decide whether the £350 already 
offered to Mrs S by L&G is fair. Mrs S says this isn't enough and also thinks she should be 
paid for the 'missing' payments from June and July 2019.
I can see Mrs S's financial adviser emailed L&G on 4 January 2019 requesting "a current 
valuation plus confirmation of total withdrawals to date". L&G confirmed that it acted on this 
request. And I'm satisfied the information requested would've shown the value of Mrs S's 
investments, including the withdrawals she'd made and the respective remaining balances. 
But Mrs S confirmed to this service that she hadn't met with her financial adviser since 
September 2014 and from what she says, she wasn't made aware of the impact of her 
withdrawals and partial surrenders were having on her account since then.
So whilst I think L&G could've told Mrs S about the monthly payments coming to end sooner, 
I think the majority of the distress came from not knowing about the status of her 
investments rather than L&G's communication errors. Her financial adviser had received  a 
valuation four months before the payments came to an end and therefore, I can't hold L&G 
fully responsible for the distress Mrs S suffered. Further, L&G's errors didn't mean Mrs S's 
investments were any less than they should've been, so I can't ask it to make up for 
payments she's had the benefit of through withdrawals.In terms of the incorrect information Mrs S received during the call in July, I accept this 
would've caused her avoidable upset and confusion. But I need to balance this with the 
fact the call handler let her know on the same day about the mistake and that this was also 
followed up within a few days with a written valuation sent to her by L&G.
So whilst I appreciate Mrs S will be disappointed with this outcome, I'm satisfied L&G's offer 
of £350 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has already made an offer to pay £350 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay Mrs S £350 if not done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman