DRN-4203130
The complaint
Mr L complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his claims for subsidence on his 
home insurance policy.
Throughout this complaint Mr L has been represented by a third party. However for ease of 
reading, Ive referred only to Mr L in this decision. All references to Mr L include the actions 
of his representative.  
What happened
Mr L had home insurance thats underwritten by AXA. In 2020 he made a claim after noticing 
cracks in the property. AXA accepted the claim and diagnosed the cause as some defective 
drains. Mr L replaced these and AXA monitored the property. It was satisfied the property 
had stabilised so carried out superstructure repairs to the building. 
However in 2022 Mr L noticed the cracks had reappeared and worsened. He contacted AXA 
again and on inspection, AXA concluded that a nearby oak tree was causing the new 
damage. It told Mr L that it would need to be removed which he arranged. 
Throughout the claims Mr L has been unhappy with how AXA had progressed matters and 
the service it had provided. In particular he said:
AXA had incorrectly diagnosed the cause of the subsidence in the first claim and this 
had delayed resolving the issue. As such, he should be reimbursed for the drainage 
repairs and shouldnt have to pay a second excess.
The repairs carried out as part of the initial claim were insufficient. 
AXA had taken too long identifying the tree as the cause as part of the second claim.
His premiums increased in price at renewal. 
AXA had provided very poor communication with Mr L and his representative which 
had caused additional distress. 
Due to the condition of his property, and the lack of action by AXA, Mr L had been 
sleeping in his car or his shed as he didnt feel safe in the property. 
AXA responded and accepted that it had provided some poor service. It offered a total of 
£225 compensation to apologise for this. But it didnt think it had acted unreasonably when 
diagnosing the cause of subsidence or carrying out repairs. And it said the premiums had 
increased in line with how it prices its policies for all customers.
It also said that it had provided reassurance to Mr L that his property was safe to live in, and 
there shouldnt be a need for him to move out of it. 
Mr L wasnt happy with AXAs response so he brought it to this service.
Our investigator thought AXA had acted fairly when dealing with the claims and had followed 
the steps shed expect when investigating a subsidence claim. So she didnt think it should 
do anything further. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr L asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The subsidence claims
Mr L has raised concerns about how his two subsidence claims have been dealt with. Hes 
said that he doesnt think the first claim was assessed correctly, which led to him paying for 
extensive drain repairs that were unnecessary. And says that AXA only papered over the 
cracks instead of providing a sufficient repair. 
AXA has provided the reports relating to the first claim. From these I can see it sent 
subsidence experts to excavate bore holes in order to examine the soil around the property 
to determine the cause of the subsidence. And it determined that the below ground drainage 
was inadequate and needed replacing as it was leaking into the soil which was causing the 
property to move. The reports noted the nearby tree as a possible cause, but AXAs expert 
concluded that there was no evidence it was causing the issue at that time.
It's also of note that Mr Ls contractor confirmed that the drains were defective. And that the 
repairs they carried out rectified the problem and enabled water draining from the roof to be 
drained away correctly without impacting the soil. 
Based on this, I dont consider AXAs initial actions relating to the claim to be unreasonable. 
It instructed an expert to determine the cause of the damage and acted on that experts 
recommendations. And both its expert and Mr Ls contractor confirmed that there was a 
problem with the drains that needed rectifying. 
Unfortunately due to the fact the drains were defective, replacing them wasnt covered under 
the policy. So Mr L had to pay for the repairs to the drains. As both Mr Ls contractor and 
AXAs expert agreed there was a defect with the drain, and this is excluded under the policy, 
I dont consider this unreasonable.
Following the repairs to the drains AXA carried out a period of monitoring to check the 
property had stabilised. Its provided the results of this and I can see that the property 
appeared stable for the months that followed the drain repair. So its reasonable that AXA 
concluded this had solved the issue.
Once the cause of the subsidence is identified and fixed, the next step is to repair the 
superficial damage it has caused to the property. And AXA carried out remedial work to the 
cracks. I appreciate Mr Ls comments about the work simply papering over the cracks. 
However the subsidence hadnt caused any structural damage, so the only repairs needed 
were to fill in the cracks and redecorate. This is the usual process in subsidence claims and 
Ive seen nothing to show that these repairs were insufficient or of a poor standard. So I think 
AXA acted fairly in the circumstances and followed a fair process to resolve the claim.
When Mr L noticed the cracks worsening again, he raised another claim. And on 
investigation AXAs expert concluded that the tree it had identified initially as a potential 
problem was now influencing the property. Once identified AXA took steps to pursue the 
removal of the tree. I note Mr L has said that he doesnt feel AXA took prompt action in this 
regard. I can see from the internal notes provided that AXA were pursuing the removal from 
soon after its expert identified this as the cause. However I agree it did a poor job of keeping 
Mr L updated. So while I dont agree it wasnt proactive, it could have done more to reassure him that the claim was progressing. 
So while I can understand why Mr L feels AXA misdiagnosed the problem initially, from what 
Ive seen I think it took fair and reasonable steps based on the evidence at the time. And it 
took prompt action to address the problems as they arose. So I wont ask it to do anything 
differently.
Excess
Mr L has said he doesnt think its fair that AXA charged two excesses for the two times he 
has raised a claim about the subsidence issue. Ive considered this and I agree. 
Mr Ls policy defines an excess as The amount you must pay as the first part of each and 
every claim. So I agree that an excess would fairly apply to every claim.
However as the cracks reported are in the same area of the property, and the claim itself has 
been dealt with as a continuation rather than a new claim, I dont think it fair that AXA charge 
two separate excesses for the two reports of subsidence. 
After the complaint came to me, I wrote to AXA to explain this. Its said that it changed its 
position on this previously and is no longer charging an additional excess. Due to this, Im 
satisfied its now done enough in this regard.
Premiums 
Mr L has also complained that his premiums have increased since he made the claim. I 
understand this will have been particularly frustrating given the claim has caused him a level 
of distress. However it isnt unusual for premiums to increase following a claim, particularly 
one for subsidence. 
Insurers calculate the cost of a policy based on the risk it perceives in taking on the policy. 
And previous claims impact this perceived risk. So often premiums will be more expensive 
following a claim.
Further, AXA has shown that the price offered is the same price it would offer any other 
customer in the same circumstances as Mr L. So Ive not found its acted unfairly in this 
regard. 
Communication 
From the notes and correspondence provided I can see that AXA has moved this claim 
along promptly, as I would expect it to do. Its been proactive in responding to Mr Ls 
requests and taken action to ensure the claim is progressed.
However it hasnt done a good job of keeping Mr L updated at every step. And I think it 
should have done more to ensure he was kept informed. Especially considering Mr L 
explained to AXA the impact the claim was having on him and the worry it was causing. 
Mr L has explained that due to his concerns about the stability of his home, he has been 
sleeping in his car and his shed as hes been worried about his safety. I was really sorry to 
hear about the profound impact the condition of the property has had on him. 
AXA has provided a lot of reassurance about the safety of the property. Including reassuring 
Mr L that it is not at risk of collapse. I appreciate this hasnt alleviated Mr Ls concerns, and it 
is his decision to sleep outside of the property. However Ive not seen any evidence that the property is currently unsafe. And I dont think there is anything more AXA could have done to 
reassure him of this.
It's important to note, when considering the impact of a claim, that I can only look at the 
impact AXAs actions have had on Mr L. Rather than the impact of the subsidence claim 
itself. Having subsidence at your property can be a distressing issue and it will often take a 
long time to resolve. So it can cause some considerable distress and inconvenience. But I 
cant hold AXA responsible for the distress of the claim itself.
Based on what Ive seen, AXA has largely handled this claim efficiently. However I agree it 
caused Mr L some additional distress by not responding promptly to some of his 
correspondence and not keeping him updated. Its offered a total of £225 compensation 
across his complaints and this is in line with what Id ask it to pay if it hadnt already made an 
offer. I therefore think its done enough to apologise for the poor communication. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman