DRN-2114288
The complaint
Mr M  on behalf of Company A  complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great lakes) 
have unfairly declined his let property insurance claim.
Great Lakes use intermediaries to manage claims and administer the insurance policy, so 
any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
Company A owns a property that was rented out. After the tenants moved out in 
November 2019, Mr M discovered that considerable damage had been caused to the 
property. This includes instances of damage such as door handles and kitchen cabinets that 
he says have been ripped off, walls that have been graffitied with crayon and pen, and 
carpets that has also been damaged.
Mr M made a claim under his landlords insurance policy. Great Lakes sent their loss 
adjuster to inspect the damage, but subsequently declined the claim. They said that the 
damage hadnt been caused maliciously and didnt fall under any other insured perils; 
instead, it was due to wear and tear, the tenants lifestyle and a general lack of care. 
Mr M was unhappy with Great lakes response. He says the previous inspection reports 
showed the property to be fine and considered the damage to be malicious as it was likely 
carried out by the tenant towards the end of his tenancy due to a breakdown in relationship.   
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt consider there was enough evidence 
to suggest that the tenants had damaged the property maliciously. He also didnt think that 
the damage could be said to have been caused accidentally in line with the policy definition, 
and that there was no other insured peril under the policy that would cover such damage. 
Mr M disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons Ive 
set out below.
Company As policy covers its property against material damage caused by specified 
insured perils  such as fire and storm damage. So if a claim is made for damage  but the 
damage cannot be attributed to an insured peril  it follows that it will not be covered under 
the policy. The relevant insured perils covered by the policy in this instance include Malicious 
Damage and Accidental Damage, so Ive considered whether any of these can reasonably 
apply to the damage caused by the tenants.
Malicious damage
The policy sets out that it covers:
16. Malicious Damage caused by the tenants to the buildings in addition to the perils 
listed in paragraphs 1 to 11 of this section.
Malicious damage isnt defined in the policy. So in that case, the fair meaning typically 
adopted is that it is damage caused deliberately with the intent to cause harm. It is more 
than the tenant simply acting without any care or with neglect. Mr M considers that the 
tenant maliciously damaged the property upon moving out, as his relationship had broken 
down with his partner (which was seemingly the reason for the tenants leaving). 
In order to say that the damage was malicious, I consider that thered need to be an element 
of the tenants actions that was intended to harm Mr M. But it seems there is little evidence 
for Mr Ms theory that the tenant went on a rampage through the house, intending to cause 
damage before moving out.   
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think theres enough to suggest that the damage 
was done with intent to cause harm. It may well have been careless, negligent or even 
reckless. But this in itself isnt enough to conclude that the damage was done maliciously. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether the damage can instead be said to have been caused 
accidentally.
Accidental damage
The policy sets out that it will cover:
17. Accidental Damage to the Buildings in addition to the perils listed in paragraphs 
1 to 11 of this section.
Accidental damage is defined by the policy as:
Sudden and unexpected damage occurring at a specific time and caused by 
external means.
Having considered the evidence, it seems that the damage present in Company As property 
is much more likely the result of prolonged mis-use or neglect on the part of the previous 
tenants and can reasonably be regarded as wear and tear or gradual damage. And I 
consider that damage to the internal decoration of the property and furnishings would fall into 
that category, and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that any of the damage was sudden 
and unexpected, occurring at a specific time and caused by external means as required by 
the policy.
The drawing on walls and carpets, for example, is not accidental. It is careless, even 
reckless, and seems most likely to have been done by a child. But it cannot be said to be 
accidental (or malicious for that matter). And in terms of the other aspects of damage, such 
as the door handle and kitchen cupboards, there is nothing to suggest this is more likely to 
have happened suddenly instead of over time. I note that the check in report also mentioned 
that the door handle was already loose in the January 2019 inspection  which lends more 
weight to this seemingly being gradual, rather than sudden damage. 
I appreciate there is no mention of the kitchen cupboards in the January 2019 inspection 
report, but it appears to have been a very rudimentary inspection and did not go into any 
great detail about all the fixtures and fittings. It also does not include any pictures, for 
example. And in the absence of any plausible explanation as to how the kitchen cupboard 
suddenly came off its hinges, I cant rule out that this was also most likely due to damage over time/wear and tear. This premise is also further supported by the pictures included in 
the checkout report, which show that some of the other cupboards are showing signs of 
wear and tear (rusty/damaged hinges, for example). 
Its also not unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude  in the absence of any evidence to 
the contrary  that damage to the fixtures/fitting and internal decorations etc. was more likely 
a result of the lifestyle of the previous tenants (which, from the checkout report, shows a 
significant lack of maintenance and cleanliness) rather than any single accidental or 
malicious event.
So, given that the damage caused can neither be said to be malicious nor accidental, and 
there is no other insured peril under which the damage caused to the property reasonably 
falls, I consider it was fair for Great Lakes to decline the claim and I will not be directing them 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M  on behalf 
of Company A  to accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman