DRN-1839908
The complaint
Miss T complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let her 
reject a faulty car.
What happened
In March 2019 Miss T acquired a second-hand car costing £16,007 funded by a deposit of 
£1,031 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. It was some four years old and had 
done 42,734 miles. The car developed a fault with the coil spring in April 2019 and this was 
repaired under warranty. Separate faults developed and the car was taken in for repair in 
October 2019, January and February 2020. Each time it was repaired under warranty and a 
courtesy car was provided. 
Miss T was able to continue using the car and the mileage as at 3 January 2020 was 59,435. 
She complained to VFS about the car and the service provided by the dealer. This was 
rejected and so she brought her complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
Our investigator explained that we didnt have the power to consider the actions of the 
dealer. He noted the age and mileage of the car and said it was reasonable to expect that it 
would suffer from wear and tear. He appreciated the frustration Miss T had experienced with 
the number of faults, but these had all been repaired under the warranty. He also noted she 
complained about the advisories on the MOT undertaken just prior to the sale. He said that 
the car has passed the MOT and the issues which needed to be addressed before the net 
MOT were wear and tear matters.
Miss T asked that the matter be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I can appreciate that Miss T has been disappointed that her car had required several repairs 
including one not long after she acquired it. However, the car was four years old and had 
done a reasonable mileage. Regrettably cars do suffer from wear and tear and parts begin to 
break. 
I gather the repairs have all been effective and there is no issue of the dealer failing to make 
good on the one attempt at repairs to which they are entitled. I can see that Miss T has 
made extensive use of the car and while it has been in the garage she has had the use of a 
courtesy car. I can see that she found at least one of the courtesy cars to be more expensive 
to run, but I cannot hold VFS responsible for that. Nor can I hold it responsible for any 
failures by the dealer in the service it has provided.
I have looked at the advisories and can see that these are relatively common issues such as 
tyre wear and a loose suspension arm. These are not matters that would allow me to direct 
the car be rejected. In short, I agree that the car has suffered from some problems but these 
are not exceptional and are not such that rejection is warranted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman