DRN-3025983
The complaint
Mr O, who is represented by a claims management company (CMC) complains that Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) rejected his claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in 
respect of holiday resort agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
The contract signed by Mr O and his wife on 15 February 2016 states that they have 
acquired: One week Accommodation in a superior standard one bedroom apartment 
maximum occupancy 2 adults and 3 children, to enjoy in a period of 12 months in the 
establishment [Hotel X]. Followed by up to five weeks accommodation, in a one bedroom 
apartment to enjoy in a period of 12 months in an establishment to be booked via the 
following email address
Later on, it states that: When full payment of the contract price has been verified the client 
will then have the right to use the purchased accommodation in a period of 12 months from 
that date.
They paid a deposit at the time the contract was signed using a credit card and the balance 
was paid using a loan set up by the merchant later. Mr O has told this service that they didnt 
receive a copy of the contract until some two weeks later. 
Mr and Mrs O thought they could take the holidays whenever it suited them and booked a 
week at Hotel X in August 2016 some six months after entering into the contract. They tried 
to book a two week stay and were told this fell outside the agreement and they had to pay an 
additional £800. They say that only then did they discover that they had to take the additional 
five weeks within 12 months of the agreement.  I understand they were also told that they 
had to take five separate weeks which meant significant travel costs. 
I consider it is clear from their actions that they didnt appreciate that time limits which 
applied to the holidays. They have explained that they have never taken five holidays in a 
year and as they lived on pension income it would not have been affordable. The question is 
whether this was due to misrepresentation by the merchant or some other reason? 
Generally, a misrepresentation is a statement of fact made by one party to a contract to the 
other that:
doesnt form part of the contract.
isnt true; and
has the result that the person to whom its made enters into the contract.
Halifax has argued that the contract stated clearly that the holidays had to be taken within 12 
months. I have some sympathy with this, but it is an unusual and fairly onerous term which 
would not be suitable for most people. As such I would expect it to be drawn to the attention 
of the potential customer by the sales representative in some way. I am satisfied from the 
behaviour and testimony of Mr O that it wasnt highlighted.
Mr O has said he was later told that the weeks had to be taken separately and while the 
contract mentions the 12 months deadline it doesnt address the requirement that each week 
has to be taken on its own. The wording of the contract would indicate that Mr and Mrs O 
should have been able to take more than one week at a time in order make use of the 
accommodation they had paid for. If they had been able to do so they may have been able 
to take advantage of the accommodation in the 12 month period.
I have noted that the original complaint made by the CMC was about the poor standard of 
the accommodation compared to what Mr and Mrs O felt they had been promised. But 
having seen the CMCs notes I am satisfied that they told it about the 12 month limitation as 
well. Mr O made this service aware of the issue when we first spoke to him and there is no 
reason to consider that the complaint has been manufactured. 
I am also concerned that a deposit was taken at the time and copy of the contract wasnt 
provided until some two weeks later. These actions by the merchant do not encourage me 
to think they were operating a plain and fair manner.
I would add that verbal misrepresentation cases are difficult to decide and one has to look at 
the surrounding facts including the behaviour of the consumer. In this case I believe it is 
clear that Mr and Mrs O were taken by surprise when they discovered the 12 month 
limitation and complained. They did not behave as if they were aware of the time limit.
Putting things right
Halifax should reimburse the cost of the agreement plus interest. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) to: 
restructure Mr O's credit card account as if the payment of £1,221.01 was never 
made and refund any interest and charges which he incurred due to the payment,
refund the payments made towards the M&S loan used to fund the additional sum 
paid for the accommodation, in addition pay 8% simple interest on these amounts 
from the date of those payments to the date the compensation payment is made,
work out the amount of the M&S loan that was paid off using the Halifax loan in 
November 2017 and refund this with 8% simple interest from the date of the payment 
to the settlement date,
work out the interest which was applied to the Halifax loan used to pay off the M&S 
loan and refund this to Mr O with 8% simple interest from the date the Halifax loan 
was set up to the settlement date,
deduct £706.43 from the settlement to reflect Mr and Mrs Os use of the 
accommodation and
remove any adverse credit file information recorded  where part of the credit used is 
provided by a different lender, then Halifax should use their best endeavours to have 
this removed. I note that Mr O has confirmed no payments towards the M&S loan 
were missed so this does not apply in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman