DRN-3991338
Complaint
Mr J has complained that Lifestyle Loans Limited (Lifestyle Loans) provided him with an 
unaffordable loan. 
Background
Lifestyle Loans provided Mr J with a loan of £5,000.00 in August 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 49.9% and an 60-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£11,862.60, which included interest, fees and charges of £6,862.60 was due to be repaid in 
60 monthly instalments of just under £200.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Lifestyle Loans unfairly 
provided this loan to Mr J as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable.
Lifestyle Loans disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Js complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Js complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Lifestyle Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr J would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr J wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Lifestyle Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Lifestyle Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
Lifestyle Loans provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Lifestyle Loans to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Js ability to make the 
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lifestyle Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr J. In practice this 
meant that Lifestyle Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Mr J undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lifestyle Loans to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Lifestyle Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
Lifestyle Loans says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr J 
prior to providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Its checks showed that 
Mr Js predicted income without transfers was just under £2,000.00. But with transfers this 
went up to just under £2,230.00. 
Lifestyle Loans determined that Mr J had essential monthly expenditure of approaching 
£1,850.00 a month. In its view, when this amount was deducted from Mr Js income with 
transfers, this left Mr J with enough to be able to make the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what Lifestyle Loans has said. But the I think that it would have 
been prudent for Lifestyle Loans to have carried our further enquiries into the transfers it was relying on for the loan to be affordable. This is because Mr Js salary credits werent enough 
for him to make the repayments to this loan, once the essential monthly expenditure figure 
Lifestyle Loans calculated for Mr J was deducted. 
Im also concerned that the credit check Lifestyle Loans carried out showed Mr J had had 
previous difficulties repaying credit  he had at three defaults (albeit one was satisfied)  so 
it simply wasnt the case that Mr J was up-to-date on his monthly commitments. This 
together with its calculations, leads me to think that Lifestyle Loans needed to take steps to 
verify Mr Js actual monthly income and expenditure. 
As I cant see that this Lifestyle Loans did take further steps to verify Mr Js expenditure, I 
dont think that the checks it carried out before providing Mr J with his loan were reasonable 
and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Lifestyle Loans that Mr J 
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told Lifestyle Loans that Mr J would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Lifestyle Loans was required to establish whether Mr J could make his loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mr J was 
struggling to manage his existing commitments. He was number of debt collectors and rarely 
had any funds left over at the end of the month. So I think that proportionate checks would 
have shown Lifestyle Loans that Mr J was likely to use this loan to repay other credit, or to at 
least cover the hole this left in his finances, which meant he was unlikely to be able to repay 
it without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr J would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Lifestyle Loans to the fact that Mr J was in no sort of position to make the 
payments on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did Lifestyle Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Lifestyle Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in some other 
way. So I dont think Lifestyle Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in some 
other way.
Did Mr J lose out as a result of Lifestyle Loans unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr J has paid and is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that he 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
Lifestyle Loans did wrong.
So I think that Lifestyle Loans needs to put things right.Fair compensation  what Lifestyle Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr J
Having thought about everything, Lifestyle Loans should put things right for Mr J by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr J made, whether to Lifestyle Loans or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,000.00 originally lent. If 
Mr J has already repaid more than £5,000.00 then Lifestyle Loans should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr J;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr J to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Lifestyle Loans recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Js 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lifestyle Loans to take off tax from this interest. Lifestyle 
Loans must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Lifestyle Loans Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman