DRN-3660212
The complaint
The estate of Mr P complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) 
delayed the processing of the distribution of Mr Ps Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
funds to the estate, leading to a financial loss. It also complains that this led to distress and 
inconvenience. 
The estate of Mr P is represented in this complaint by Mrs H on behalf of the administrators 
of the estate.
What happened
Mr P had a SIPP with HL. He died on 15 October 2019 without a will. He had two adult 
children and no spouse. Mrs H is Mr Ps ex-wife and mother of his children. She helped her 
children with the probate and letters of administration process.
Mrs H first contacted HL on 28 November 2019 to notify them of Mr Ps death. She was told 
that she should send the death certificate, after which HL would send her an estate pack. 
Mrs H chased HL for the estate pack, which she had yet to receive, and sent in the death 
certificate, on 14 December 2019. 
HL have since clarified that they issue a Request for Information form, not an estate pack, 
when distributing a SIPP. They said they issue an estate pack when distributing any product 
which falls within the deceaseds estate. They have confirmed that an estate pack wasnt 
sent to Mrs H. And that it shouldnt have been sent as it wasnt needed due to the SIPP 
being held outside the estate. But Ill continue to refer in this decision to whatever term was 
used in the correspondence between HL and Mrs H.
HL returned the death certificate with a letter dated 3 January 2020. Mrs H said she received 
this letter on 6 January 2020. The letter confirmed that HL would shortly send a valuation of 
Mr Ps SIPP portfolio, along with the forms needed to settle the accounts. The letter also 
said that Mrs H should contact them if she hadnt received those documents within 30 days. 
HL said the 3 January 2020 letter made it clear to Mrs H that the underlying investments in 
the SIPP would remain invested unless she told them to sell them. It said:
Any holdings will remain invested until theyre distributed, or we receive instruction from the 
estate executor or administrator to sell them, meaning their values may fluctuate. 
HL felt that having made Mrs H aware of the risks of staying invested it was then her 
decision whether or not to take on that risk. 
Mrs H wrote to HL again on 21 January 2020. She told them she was unhappy with the 
length of time the process was taking. She detailed the steps shed taken to date to progress 
the process.
HL sent another letter dated 22 January 2020, which Mrs H said she received on 30 January 
2020. This included a SIPP valuation as at 22 January 2020 and an information request form 
that needed to be completed and returned. The letter said that they would use the 
information provided alongside other information already held to decide who should receive 
the benefits from the SIPP. They said they would normally be able to make and 
communicate their decision within 21 days of receiving all the required documents.
HL said that their letter dated 22 January 2020 repeated their warning that the SIPP would 
remain invested. The letter said: 
The late [Mr Ps] SIPP is invested. We usually sell the investments once the beneficiaries 
have been determined and they have chosen how to take their benefits as they may wish to 
move the investments into drawdown. However, if the executors or representatives wish to 
disinvest the SIPP to maintain its value and reduce its exposure to adverse market 
conditions, we require a written instruction, signed by all the executors or representatives. If 
we do not receive such an instruction, the SIPP will remain invested until the 
beneficiaries have been determined and they have decided how they would like their 
benefits to be paid.
Mrs H returned the request for information form to HL on 5 February 2020. I understand HL 
received this on 10 February 2020.
On 28 February 2020, Mrs H called HL as their decision on beneficiaries had yet to be 
communicated and more than 21 days had passed since shed sent in the required 
documentation. She also sent a letter of complaint to HL, detailing the timeline of the 
process to date.
On 4 March 2020  HL sent Mrs H two letters. One of the letters enclosed short forms with 
the options available to the two beneficiaries, who had now been decided. These had to be 
completed and returned. The other letter was in response to Mrs Hs complaint about the 
service shed received. It said that the case had been processed that day. But noted that the 
SIPP options forms had to be completed and returned before any money could be paid to 
the beneficiaries. 
On 11 March 2020 Mrs H wrote to HL enclosing two completed SIPP Settlement of Benefits 
forms. The forms effectively instructed HL to sell the shares held in the SIPP.
On 17 March 2020 HL wrote to Mrs H to tell her that the instruction to sell the shares had 
been received and had been passed to processing.
Mrs Hs daughter received 50% of the SIPP proceeds on 23 March 2020.
On 24 March 2020, Mrs H wrote to HL to say she hadnt received a response to her latest 
complaint letter. She noted that shed received a letter referring to the deceased as her 
mother, which was clearly incorrect. She said that her daughter had received a payment 
from the SIPP proceeds into her bank account. But her son hadnt received any payment. 
She asked them to check their records to ensure that her son received his payment. And 
said that she was totally dissatisfied with the service shed received from HL. She felt thered 
been a total lack of empathy for her childrens situation, given theyd lost their father.
Mrs Hs son received 50% of the SIPP proceeds on 27 March 2020.
HL wrote to Mrs H on 7 April 2020. She said she received the letter on 18 April 2020. HL 
apologized for the service theyd provided. And offered her £250 for the inconvenience 
theyd caused her. They acknowledged that Mrs H felt that the value of the SIPP had fallen 
due to the time theyd taken to process the claim. But didnt consider that theyd caused 
financial disadvantage. Mrs H replied to HL on 9 April 2020. She said that the value of the SIPP on 22 January 2020 
had been £33,363.69, but that the total her children had received was £23,573.22. So she 
felt that if HL had acted in a timely manner, her children wouldve received at least the earlier 
value. She felt that if HL hadnt delayed the process, the payments wouldve been made 
before the value of the SIPP fell. She also felt that HL had shown no empathy during the 
process. She said it had taken HL 17 weeks to process the claim and that this wasnt 
acceptable.  Mrs H said she expected HL to compensate her children for the financial loss. 
And to provide further compensation for the distress theyd caused. She asked them to pay 
total compensation of £13,126.94.
On 20 April 2020 Mrs H wrote to HL again. She said that the two recent letters theyd sent 
her in response to her complaint had been incorrectly sent to the deceaseds former 
address, despite the fact that shed provided the correct address to HL. She also noted that 
her name had been incorrectly spelt on one occasion. She said neither she nor her children 
were executors of Mr Ps estate. And that Mr Ps children had been authorised to be 
administrators of his estate, not executors. Mrs H also said that she was preparing evidence 
about how HL's actions had caused financial loss and emotional distress to Mr Ps 
children. She wanted that evidence to be considered in HLs response to her complaint. HL 
said they would wait for that evidence before concluding their response to the complaint.
On 24 April 2020 Mrs H wrote again to HL. She sent information detailing what had actually 
happened during the process of paying the benefits of the SIPP to Mr Ps children. She said 
this process had taken 85 working days. And that shed had to make seven phone calls and 
write 17 letters to progress the claim. Mrs H also sent a timeline detailing what she felt 
shouldve happened during the claim. She felt that the process shouldve taken around 45 
working days. And it shouldve required one phone call and six letters. She said HL should 
increase their compensation offer for the emotional distress and the inconvenience theyd 
caused. She asked them to provide £9,330.09 compensation for the financial loss. And an 
additional 20% of this amount - £1,866.09  for the emotional distress and inconvenience.
Mrs H acknowledged that she didnt instruct HL to sell the investments. She said this was 
because she felt HL had indicated that investments were only usually sold once the 
beneficiaries had been determined and how theyd chosen to take their benefits. She also 
said that the fact that she hadnt instructed the sale of the investments early on in the 
process wasnt the reason the financial loss had occurred. She felt the loss had occurred 
because of the length of time it had taken HL to send out the Request for Information form. 
She said that had the correct documentation been sent out in an appropriate timescale, the 
funds wouldve been distributed before the market fall. Mrs H also felt that HL hadnt used 
plain English to explain what she had to do. And felt that they shouldve made it clear to her 
that if she wanted to maintain the value of the SIPP she should sell the investments in it. She 
felt that HLs form shouldve required the beneficiaries to tick a box to indicate they had read 
and understood the statement that if the investments were retained there was a risk the 
value of funds would fall. She felt that other - less important - parts of the form had required 
boxes to be ticked. Mrs H also considered that if shed been able to speak to a single 
knowledgeable contact at HL throughout the claim, the process wouldve worked much more 
quickly.
HL sent their final response letter to the complaint on 7 May 2020. They apologised for the 
service Mrs H had received. They upheld her request for £1,866.09 compensation for the 
emotional distress and inconvenience theyd caused. But didnt consider that they were 
responsible for any financial loss. They didnt agree that they shouldve advised her to sell 
the investments held within the SIPP in order to preserve the value of the account. They said 
this was because theyd only ever conducted business with Mr P on an execution only 
basis. They said they could only provide advice after an extensive fact find of the investors circumstances and objectives. 
HL also said that theyd told Mrs H on more than one occasion that the SIPP would remain 
invested until the benefits were distributed, or until theyd received an instruction from the 
executor or administrator to sell the investments. They felt that although it was now known 
that the SIPP had fallen in value since the first valuation had been provided, they werent 
responsible for that loss. They felt that Mrs H had decided to remain invested. And said that 
she couldve instructed the investments to be sold if she hadnt been comfortable with them 
remaining subject to market movements.
Mrs H said that shed believed that the shares in the SIPP werent Mr Ps childrens property 
to sell, as this had been the case with other aspects of his estate. She said that HL had 
never informed her this was the case in all her interactions with them. She said she wasnt 
asking HL to make good the financial losses suffered because the SIPP investments hadnt 
been sold earlier in the process. She said that the financial loss had been caused by HL 
taking 17 weeks to process a claim which she felt shouldve taken eight weeks. She felt 
shed clearly shown that her children wouldve received substantially more money from the 
SIPP if the process had progressed in a timely fashion. 
HL replied to Mrs H on 20 May 2020. They maintained their decision on the complaint. They 
felt that the responsibility for the decision to remain invested rested with Mrs H as 
administrator of the estate. They said theyd found no evidence that theyd indicated that the 
investments couldnt be sold earlier in the claims process. And noted that theyd explained in 
their 3 January 2020 letter that the account would remain invested unless they received an 
instruction to the contrary. They said theyd also included wording in the estate pack which 
had clearly pointed out that if representatives wish to maintain the value of the estate or 
reduce exposure to markets, they can provide an instruction signed by all representatives.
Unhappy, Mrs H brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator felt the complaint 
should be upheld. She felt that HL had caused an unreasonable delay in the payment of the 
SIPP funds to Mr Ps estate. She felt that HL should carry out a calculation to establish 
whether Mr Ps estate had suffered a loss because of the delays she felt theyd caused. She 
felt that if things had gone as they should, the instruction to sell wouldve been received on 7 
February 2020. Therefore she said that HL should calculate the loss as follows:
Calculate what the value of the funds wouldve been if the instruction to sell had been 
received on 7 February 2020. This is A.
Confirm the value of the total funds paid to Mr Ps beneficiaries. This is B.
Subtract B from A to get C.
If C is a positive number, that is the loss the estate has suffered and this should be 
paid to Mr Ps beneficiaries. If C is a negative number, theres been no loss and HL 
dont have to pay any further compensation for financial loss.
Our investigator agreed that the compensation offered for distress and inconvenience was 
fair, and that it should be paid to the estate in addition to any compensation for financial loss. 
Mrs H agreed with our investigator. 
HL didnt agree. They made the following points:
-They didnt dispute that there was a delay which had caused Mrs H and the 
beneficiaries of the estate significant distress, but they felt theyd addressed that fairly with their proposed compensation. 
-They didnt agree that they should be asked to assess any potential financial loss, or 
that they should be liable for any such loss. They said it wasnt a fair outcome that as 
the market had moved against Mrs H that HL should cover that loss. They said this 
was because theyd made it clear to Mrs H in their correspondence of 3 January 
2020 and 22 January 2020 that the underlying investments would remain invested 
unless she told them to sell them. And that theyd also explained that there was an 
inherent risk that the value of the assets would fluctuate if they remained invested. 
They said that as they were an execution-only provider they had fully discharged 
their responsibility to make her aware of the risks of staying invested. And that it was 
her decision to do so. 
-HL also said that they didnt have an advisory relationship with Mrs H. Therefore their 
role as an execution-only provider was to give her the relevant information to make 
an informed decision, which they felt they had. 
-HL didnt agree that winding everything back as if there had been no delay put the 
beneficiaries back to the correct position. They felt that this unfairly transferred the 
risk for market underperformance that Mrs H had agreed to, by staying invested, from 
the beneficiaries to HL. They felt that if the market had moved the other way, this 
wouldnt be an issue. And therefore that this wasnt a fair solution. 
After HLs points had been shared with Mrs H, she made the following points:
-HL had acted negligently, inefficiently and had badly managed the process, causing 
numerous delays. Theyd also shown a total lack of empathy towards the bereaved 
family of their late client.
-She agreed that she didnt instruct HL to sell the assets. But said that the financial 
loss had occurred because of the delays HL had caused. She said that if HL had 
acted in a reasonable manner, the benefits wouldve been paid to the beneficiaries 
well before the stock market started to decline due to the pandemic. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 25 July 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that HL should assess if 
theres been any financial loss due to the delays theyve caused. But in order to put Mr Ps 
beneficiaries back to the position they wouldve been in but for the delays, I also consider 
that interest should be added to the loss calculated. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
HLs position is that they accept that the processing of Mr Ps SIPP after his death didnt 
meet the standards that his beneficiaries shouldve expected. They dont dispute that they 
caused a delay and that this caused Mrs H and Mr Ps beneficiaries significant distress. 
They said they made an offer of £1,866.09 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the errors theyd made in processing the death claim. But HL 
strongly disagree that they are responsible for any reduction in value of the SIPP due to the 
time taken to process the death claim. They said this was because they couldnt provide 
financial advice. And theyd told Mrs H in both the 3 and 22 January 2020 letters that the 
underlying investments would remain invested unless she told them to sell them. And that there was an inherent risk that the value of the SIPP would fluctuate.
Mrs Hs position is that although she agrees that she didnt instruct HL to sell the assets in 
the SIPP, the financial loss had occurred because of the delays HL had caused. She said 
that if the process had run as it shouldve, the benefits from the SIPP shouldve reached the 
beneficiaries bank accounts on 3 February 2020. She said that if HL had acted in a 
reasonable manner, the benefits wouldve been paid to the beneficiaries well before the 
stock market started to decline due to the pandemic. 
Mrs H said that no other financial organisation that shed dealt with had ever taken this long 
to process a sale transaction. And noted that another provider had processed her husbands 
death claim in nine working days. She felt that HL had taken a total of 85 working days to 
process the claim.
As HL have accepted that they caused a delay, I considered how long that delay was. 
How much of a delay did HL cause?
Mrs H provided a detailed timeline in which she felt that the benefits from the SIPP shouldve 
reached the beneficiaries bank accounts on 3 February 2020. 
Our investigator considered that the instruction to sell wouldve been received by HL by 7 
February 2020. 
Ive carried out a similar review of the time HL took to process the claim. And Ive compared 
this to the usual process and the timescales Id expect under similar circumstances. 
I acknowledge that HL dont have a set timescale for this process, due to there being a 
number of steps which can take a different amount of time in individual cases. But theyve 
confirmed that once theyre informed of a clients death, they aim to send a Request for 
Information pack out within two days of receiving the death certificate. 
Having completed this review, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Im 
satisfied that HL shouldve received the instruction to sell by 7 February 2020, based on the 
timeline Ive noted below.
HL confirmed that once theyve been told that a client has died, they aim to send a Request 
for Information form out within two days of receiving the death certificate. But I understand 
that they didnt tell Mrs H on her first call that she needed to send the death certificate. 
Instead, they told her that theyd send the form on 28 November 2019. But then didnt send it 
until she chased for it. Mrs H posted the death certificate two days after HL told her they 
needed it. 
I consider that if HL had followed their normal process and told Mrs H on her first call that 
they needed the death certificate, she wouldve sent it two days later. I say this based on the 
fact that she sent in the death certificate two days after HL requested it. Allowing HL two 
days to send the Request for Information form and postage time, I consider that Mrs H 
shouldve received confirmation of receipt of the death certificate by 6 December 2019. 
Mrs H didnt actually receive confirmation of receipt of the death certificate until 6 January 
2020. And she didnt receive the Request for Information form (dated 22 January 2020) and 
valuation until 30 January 2020. HL said the valuation could take up to 30 days. So I dont 
consider 24 days to be unreasonable here. Allowing the same amount of time from when 
Mrs H shouldve received the confirmation of receipt (6 December 2019), I consider she 
shouldve received the valuation on 30 December 2019. Mrs H said she returned the Request for Information form to HL on 5 February 2020, four working days after receiving it. 
HL told Mrs H in their 22 January 2020 letter that a decision on the allocation of funds would 
normally be made within 21 days of receiving all the documents they needed. But they didnt 
confirm that allocation until their letter of 4 March 2020, which meant they took considerably 
more than 21 days after theyd received all the documents. Mrs H sent the documents to HL 
after four working days. So if HL had caused no delays, Im satisfied that Mrs H wouldve 
sent the required documents by 7 January 2020 (allowing for bank holidays). And, allowing 
for postage time, I consider that HL wouldve received these by 10 January 2020. From what 
Ive seen, there was nothing particularly complicated about the decision on the beneficiaries 
in this case. So Im of the view that HL shouldve been able to complete their decision on the 
allocation of funds within their normal 21-day timescale. And therefore I consider that they 
shouldve confirmed the allocation by 31 January 2020.
After the beneficiaries had been decided, the next step in the process was for HL to ask the 
beneficiaries if they wanted the shares to be sold or re-invested. This request was made in a 
letter dated 4 March 2020. Mrs H requested that HL sell the shares five working days later, 
in a letter dated 11 March 2020. Therefore, had the process worked as it should, I consider 
that the sale instruction wouldve been received by HL on 7 February 2020. As HL didnt 
actually receive the instruction to sell until 17 March 2020, just over six weeks later than 7 
February 2020, I consider that this is the delay they caused.
If HL had received the instruction to sell by 7 February 2020, I consider that the funds 
wouldve reached the beneficiaries bank accounts by 14 February 2020. I say this because I 
consider a working week to be a reasonable period of time for the sale to take place and the 
funds to be transferred. And because the transfer of funds to one of the beneficiaries took six 
days. 
As I was satisfied that HL did cause an unreasonable delay to the payment of the benefits, I 
next considered what the situation wouldve been for the beneficiaries if there had been no 
delay. 
What shouldve happened?
As I noted earlier, HL dont feel that they should need to assess any potential financial loss. 
They consider that they made Mrs H aware of the risks of maintaining the investment on 
more than one occasion. They dont consider that theyre responsible for the losses arising 
from Mrs Hs decision to stay invested. And therefore they dont feel they should be held 
liable for any financial loss caused by a fall in the underlying investments in the SIPP. HL 
consider that theyve fairly handled the complaint by making a considerable distress and 
inconvenience payment in light of the delays they caused.
Mrs H agreed that she didnt instruct HL to sell the investments in the SIPP. She said this 
was due to the general statement included on the last page of the SIPP Request for 
Information document. This was included alongside the warning that the value of the SIPP 
could fluctuate as it would remain invested unless the asset sale was instructed. The 
statement said:
We usually sell the investments once the beneficiaries have been determined and they 
have chosen how to take their benefits as they may wish to move the investments into 
drawdown.
Mrs H said that when she read this statement it was clear to her that HL were telling her that 
 usually  they sold the investments after the beneficiaries had been determined and 
theyd chosen the form of their benefits. She felt that this statement encouraged clients not to remove or disinvest their investments.
HL confirmed the beneficiaries on 4 March 2020. Mrs H wrote to HL on 11 March 2020 
enclosing two completed SIPP Settlement of Benefits forms for the beneficiaries. These 
forms instructed HL to sell the shares held in the SIPP. And I think, on the basis of what 
actually happened and the information provided by HL, its a reasonable conclusion that Mrs 
H wouldve waited until that point in the process to give the instruction to sell the 
investments.
But this should of course naturally have happened much sooner, had the delays not been 
incurred. In essence, the point at which Mrs H wouldve instructed the sale wouldve been 
reached earlier.
Therefore Im satisfied that the beneficiaries should be put back into the position they 
wouldve been in had the delays not occurred. I acknowledge that HL dont consider that this 
is fair. They feel that this unfairly transfers the market risk they say Mrs H had accepted from 
the beneficiaries to HL. But I consider that Mrs H requested the disinvestment at the point 
she was always going to request it  that is, as soon as the beneficiaries were confirmed. 
Had the process run without delay, Im satisfied this disinvestment instruction wouldve been 
made around six weeks earlier, before the stock market fall. 
I next considered whether HL shouldve advised the beneficiaries to disinvest the assets at 
an earlier point. 
Should HL have advised the beneficiaries?
Mrs H considers that HL shouldve advised the beneficiaries of Mr Ps estate to sell the 
investments and place them into a drawdown account to ensure no potential loss occurred. 
HL said that they only ever conducted business with Mr P on an execution only basis. This 
meant that they executed the instructions that he (or his representatives) provided. They 
said they could only provide clients with advice in response to a specific request. And even 
then only after an extensive fact find of their circumstances and objectives to allow them to 
ensure that any advice they provided was suitable.
As HL had no advisory relationship with Mr P or his estate, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
to expect them to give financial advice to his beneficiaries. HL were the investment provider, 
not the adviser. Therefore there was no requirement on them to provide advice. Nor could 
they provide such advice to the beneficiaries without carrying out an extensive fact find to 
ensure that the advice they provided was suitable. So I dont intend to uphold this part of the 
complaint 
I finally considered whether the compensation HL have already offered is fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint.
Distress and inconvenience
HL have offered to pay £1,866.09 compensation for the distress and inconvenience their 
delays caused. They agreed to this amount after Mrs H requested compensation to the value 
of 20% of what she felt the beneficiaries financial loss had been. 
In order to assess whether this amount of compensation is fair and reasonable for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, I need to consider the impact the delays had on the 
beneficiaries of the estate. As our investigator said, this service can only tell a business to pay compensation for 
distress and inconvenience experienced by their customer. In this case, that would be the 
beneficiaries Mr P and Mrs Hs two children. As Mrs H isnt a beneficiary, this service cant 
ask for compensation to be paid for Mrs Hs time. Instead I must focus on the impact this has 
had on Mr Ps beneficiaries.
Mr P died in October 2019 and the process to access the benefits he held with HL started 
in November 2019. During the course of the process to access the benefits, Mrs H, acting on 
behalf of the beneficiaries, experienced issues such as names being spelled incorrectly, 
addressees being incorrectly referenced, and letters being sent to the wrong address. HL 
also repeatedly referenced the wrong forms, which wouldve been confusing. Given the 
beneficiaries father had just died, I can see that all of this wouldve caused emotional 
distress as well as considerable inconvenience over this period.
HLs offer of £1866.09 is in line with the award we would make where there has been 
substantial distress, worry and upset or serious disruption to daily life for a sustained period. 
I consider that this would apply in this case. And therefore Im satisfied that HLs offer for the 
distress and inconvenience theyve caused is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
Putting things right
In summary, Im satisfied that Mrs H wouldve disinvested the assets at the point that the 
beneficiaries were confirmed  as she ultimately did. But had the delays not been incurred, 
this wouldve happened much sooner. Therefore in order to put the beneficiaries back into 
the position they wouldve been in but for HLs delays, I intend to ask HL to calculate any 
loss caused by the delays.
Fair compensation
My aim is that the estate of Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position it 
would probably now be in if HL hadnt caused the delays. Its not possible to say precisely 
when things wouldve happened, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable based on the evidence.
In accordance with the timeline Ive set out above, had there been no delays, I think HL 
wouldve received the instruction to sell on 7 February 2020. And that the funds wouldve 
reached the beneficiaries bank accounts on 14 February 2020. 
What do I intend to ask HL to do?
To compensate The estate of Mr P fairly, I intend to ask HL to:
Calculate what the value of the funds wouldve been if the instruction to sell had been 
received on 7 February 2020. This is A.
Confirm the value of the total funds paid to Mr Ps beneficiaries. This is B.
Subtract B from A to get C.
If C is a positive number, that is the loss the beneficiaries have suffered and this 
should be paid to Mr Ps beneficiaries. If C is a negative number, no compensation 
is payable.
HL should add interest at 8% simple per year on any loss from 14 February 2020, when I consider the funds shouldve reached the beneficiaries bank accounts, to the 
date of settlement.
If it hasnt already done so, pay Mr Ps beneficiaries half of £1,866  so £933 each - 
for the emotional distress and inconvenience caused. 
Response to my provisional decision
HL didnt reply to my provisional decision. 
Mrs H provided this service with a summary of why she felt the delays had arisen. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In summary, Im satisfied that Mrs H wouldve disinvested the assets at the point that the 
beneficiaries were confirmed  as she ultimately did. But had the delays not been incurred, 
this wouldve happened much sooner. Therefore in order to put the beneficiaries back into 
the position they wouldve been in but for HLs delays, I require HL to calculate any loss 
caused by the delays.
Fair compensation
My aim is that the estate of Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position it 
would probably now be in if HL hadnt caused the delays. Its not possible to say precisely 
when things wouldve happened, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable based on the evidence.
In accordance with the timeline Ive set out above, had there been no delays, I think HL 
wouldve received the instruction to sell on 7 February 2020. And that the funds wouldve 
reached the beneficiaries bank accounts on 14 February 2020. 
What must HL do?
To compensate The estate of Mr P fairly, HL must:
Calculate what the value of the funds wouldve been if the instruction to sell had been 
received on 7 February 2020. This is A.
Confirm the value of the total funds paid to Mr Ps beneficiaries. This is B.
Subtract B from A to get C.
If C is a positive number, that is the loss the beneficiaries have suffered and this 
should be paid to Mr Ps beneficiaries. If C is a negative number, no compensation 
is payable.
HL should add interest at 8% simple per year on any loss from 14 February 2020, when I consider the funds shouldve reached the beneficiaries bank accounts, to the 
date of settlement.
If it hasnt already done so, pay Mr Ps beneficiaries half of £1,866  so £933 each - 
for the emotional distress and inconvenience caused. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If HL deduct income tax from the interest it 
should tell The estate of Mr P how much has been taken off. HL should give the 
beneficiaries a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited to take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman