DRN-1370569
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) allowed him to spend funds that would have 
taken him into an unarranged overdraft on his bank account. He feels HSBC shouldn'tt have 
allowed this.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr A made some deposits on a gambling website, using the details of the 
bank account he holds with HSBC. Because Mr A didn't have enough funds in his account to 
cover the deposits, these payments would have taken Mr As bank account into an 
unarranged overdraft.
Recognising this, Mr A paid some money into his account, so as not to enter the unarranged 
overdraft  or to incur charges. He also emailed HSBC and asked whether there was a way 
transactions that would take him into an unarranged overdraft could be stopped, because he 
had difficulties with gambling online. Mr A chased a response from HSBC a few days later. 
He noted his situation had worsened, and that he would like his local branch to call him 
about the issue. 
Mr As account was due to enter an unarranged overdraft again, because of further gambling 
transactions. This ultimately didn'tt happen  because Mr A said he borrowed some money 
from a family member to pay the funds off. But, he wanted to stop the possibility of going into 
an unarranged overdraft again.
HSBC responded to Mr As emails and said it couldn't discuss his bank account over email 
as this wasn't secure. It provided Mr A with options to call its customer service centre, 
discuss the matter over live chat or said he could visit his local branch. Mr A took the option 
to write to his local branch  to ask whether there was a way to stop any transactions that 
would take him over his arranged overdraft limit.
Mr A received a response to this letter in April 2019, when an account review was arranged. 
During the review a stop was placed on Mr As account for one year. But Mr A feels HSBC 
should have taken action before this. He said HSBC shouldn't have accepted requests for 
payment in January 2019, knowing he didn't have money to cover the transactions. Mr A 
also said it was clear he had a gambling vulnerability, and that the requests were in relation 
to this. So, he raised a complaint with HSBC.
HSBC didn't think it had done anything wrong in allowing the payment requests made to go 
through. It said the terms and conditions of Mr As account explained that if a payment 
request was made that took an account holder over an arranged overdraft limit, it would treat 
this as a request for an unarranged overdraft. And this was what happened in Mr As case. 
HSBC also said it didn'tt offer a service to restrict the use of gambling websites. So, it 
didn't think it should have done anything to stop the payments. Because Mr A was unhappy 
with this, he referred his complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator reviewed Mr As complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. He said Mr 
As account was generally well run, and HSBC weren't aware Mr A had difficulties with gambling  before he told them this in January 2019. So, he wouldn'tt have expected HSBC 
to take any steps to stop Mr A going into his unarranged overdraft at that time.
Our investigator also said that when HSBC did become aware Mr As gambling vulnerability, 
it took steps to assist where it could  although there was a delay in this being carried out. 
But he said HSBC had offered £100 compensation for this delay. And he thought this level of 
compensation was fair. 
Mr A didn't agree. He said;
he had spent a large amount of funds on gambling websites over a 21 month period 
 and that this should have raised concerns for HSBC, before he told them of the 
problem;
HSBC shouldn't have allowed funds that weren't there to be debited from his account
HSBC now has the facility for their account holders to put a stop on their account, so 
that deposits to gambling websites couldn't be carried out.
Because Mr A didn't agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr As account  and I can see these do say 
HSBC wont allow payments to leave an account if there is no money left in it (including the 
any overdraft). But, the terms do also say HSBC may allow an unarranged overdraft, where 
it thinks the account holder can afford it. So, Im satisfied it can allow a payment to go 
through, where there are no funds in the account at the time  if this looks affordable.
But Mr A has said that because of his difficulties with gambling, HSBC shouldnt have 
allowed this to happen. He said that he had carried out a lot of gambling transactions on the 
account in the past  in comparison to his income. And that if HSBC had refused the 
payments, he wouldn't have lost money on the gambling website. Given this, Ive needed to 
think about whether HSBC acted fairly in allowing the payments to go through.
Ive thought carefully about this. I can see Mr A has taken several steps himself to assist with 
his gambling difficulties. But I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in this case by allowing 
the payments to go through.
HSBC wasn't aware of Mr As difficulties with gambling at the time he made the first 
transaction in January 2019. It wasn't until after this Mr A contacted HSBC to let it know he 
had difficulties with gambling and needed support. So, Im satisfied that HSBC didn't have 
any cause to take action to support Mr A at this point.
Mr A has said the amount of gambling transactions on his account should have alerted 
HSBC to his relationship with gambling websites before he told it. So, he feels it should have 
taken steps before the branch meeting. But I dont think there was enough evidence to alert 
HSBC that it should refuse the payments or an unarranged overdraft.
I say this because Ive reviewed Mr As bank account statements. I can see a large number 
of transactions were made to gambling websites before the payment requests in question. 
But it is an account holders decision as to what they spend money on. And it wouldn't be for 
a bank to make this decision for its account holders, where it didn't know of vulnerabilities. An account holder is entitled to spend their money and agreed overdraft as they see fit  if 
these are in line with the terms of their account.
Mr A was managing his account well prior to January 2019. His account rarely went into its 
overdraft, and never over the agreed overdraft limit. Its possible the account could have 
gone into an unarranged overdraft in January 2019. But this didn't happen at this point 
either. Mr A had deposited funds into his account, to ensure this wouldn't take place. 
I do understand what Mr A has said about the amount of money he had spent on gambling 
before, in comparison to his income. But given that Mr As account was managed well at the 
time, I dont think there was enough evidence to highlight to HSBC that Mr A was in 
difficulties, or needed assistance, until he told it this was the case. So, I dont think it did 
anything wrong in allowing the payments to go through or agreeing to provide an unarranged 
overdraft.
Once Mr A had told HSBC he was experiencing difficulties with gambling, and managing his 
account as a result, HSBC explained how he could seek assistance with his account  via 
the branch, a live chat or on the customer helpline at this point. I think this was the right thing 
for HSBC to do. Mr As account would need to be discussed securely  and it provided 
options for Mr A to do this.
At the time Mr As concerns were raised, HSBC has explained there wasn't a facility for 
restrictions for gambling websites to be added to an account. But, when Mr A visited the 
branch in April 2019, it did put a stop on his account for the period of a year, to assist Mr A. 
So, Im satisfied it did take a fair step to help Mr A once it knew of the problem and met with 
Mr A to ensure Mr A wasn't able to spend over his agreed overdraft limit.
Mr A has also raised concerns about the length of time it took HSBC to deal with his request 
for support. I can see that when Mr A wrote to his local branch in February 2019 it took 
HSBC until early April 2019 to respond. So, just under two months to provide some 
assistance. 
I do think HSBC should have contacted Mr A sooner to arrange a discussion about his 
account. HSBC has recognised it should have responded more quickly  and offered an 
amount of £100 compensation to apologise for this error. So, Ive needed to consider 
whether this offer is reasonable.
Between February and April 2019, when Mr A received a response from HSBC, Mr A 
didn't make any further payment requests. So, HSBCs failure to act more efficiently didn't 
lead Mr A to incur further gambling losses. But, I do think this delay caused trouble and 
upset to him. Mr A was anxious to receive a response from HSBC. He chased for a 
response, and understandably wanted to do everything he could do to get his gambling 
difficulties under control. So, I think its right that HSBC provided compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused to Mr A. 
I also think the amount already offered to Mr A for this is fair and reasonable. I think it fairly 
reflects the inconvenience in Mr A needing to chase for a response from HSBC, and the 
upset waiting the matter to be discussed would have caused. Its my understanding HSBC 
has paid this amount to Mr A. So, Im satisfied it doesn't need to do anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I think the £100 
compensation offered and already paid by HSBC UK Bank Plc is fair. So, I dont require it to 
do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman