DRN-3735821
The complaint
The estate of Mr W complains about issues adding a power of attorney to the late Mr Ws 
account with NewDay Ltd (NewDay). 
The estate of Mr W is being represented by his daughter. 
What happened
Before Mr W sadly died, Mr Ws daughter was in the process of adding herself as POA on 
his account. Mr Ws daughter said NewDay were unwilling to add her as POA, so she logged 
a complaint. 
NewDay investigated the complaint and at first didnt uphold it. It said the address on the 
POA document didnt match the address it had on file for Mr W.  So, the estate of Mr W via 
his daughter brought a complaint to our service.
NewDay then made an offer of £100. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt find it was one where she could increase 
the compensation. Our investigator said that as the late Mr Ws daughter was representing 
the estate, our service couldnt award compensation for any trouble and upset she had 
suffered personally when trying to add herself as POA.
The late Mr Ws daughter didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Id like to start by saying how sorry I am for the late Mr Ws daughters loss. Id like to assure 
her that Ive read all her comments in full when coming to my outcome. 
The late Mr W would have been the eligible complainant here, who had the required 
relationship with business  and we can only make awards to eligible complainants. The late 
Mr Ws daughter brings the complaint to our service on her late fathers behalf (as the 
person authorised in law to do so). 
So, it follows that we cant compensate an executor or the late Mr Ws daughter for any 
impact incurred personally, when representing her fathers estate.
So, although I know the late Mr Ws daughter will be disappointed with this outcome, I agree 
with the investigator when shes said we can only look at losses the estate incurred and not 
any trouble and upset.
I understand the late Mr Ws daughter has raised the point that Mr W was still alive when the 
complaint was brought to our service. I can understand why she would raise this point, but 
our service would treat POAs in the same way that we would a representative of an estate. 
So, we wouldnt have been able to award any personal compensation there either. 
NewDay have offered to pay the late Mr Ws daughter £100 compensation, and she is still 
free to accept that.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman