DRN-3599309
The complaint
Ms D complains that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) unfairly 
declined a claim made under her building insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Ds tenant reported a leak at the insured property, and Ms D arranged for repairs to be 
carried out. In doing so, she was made aware of further damage and made a claim under 
her building insurance policy to Ocaso.
Ocaso asked for further details such as the date the damage had occurred, and Ms D 
provided this to them. They then declined the claim on the basis that Ms D didnt notify 
Ocaso within 90 days of the incident occurring.
Ms D didnt agree that the claim should be declined. She said the 90 day notification 
requirement didnt apply in her circumstances  because whilst the tenant had advised her of 
a leak, it was the long-term unseen damage which required substantial work, that she was 
claiming for. So she made a complaint to Ocaso about its decision to decline the claim.
Ocaso responded to the complaint but maintained its position that the claim hadnt been 
declined unfairly on the grounds of late notification. Ms D remained unhappy with Ocasos 
response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She said the 
90 day notification requirement hadnt been met, and so the claim hadnt been declined 
unfairly.
Because Ms D didnt agree with our investigators opinion, the complaint has now been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain further.
Ms Ds policy says, under the heading IF YOU NEED TO MAKE A CLAIM: 
Failure to notify the Insurer of a claim within 90 days of any occurrence will void the claim.
The term occurrence is not defined in the policy, but I consider the reasonable 
interpretation of the term to mean the incident which gave rise to the claim. In this case, that 
occurrence would be the leak which resulted in the damage being claimed for. 
Ocaso was informed in an email dated 12 November 2021 that the tenant advised of a large 
leak on 01 Aug 2021 however we believe this leak had been unseen for some time. 
Because Ms D became aware of the leak on 1 August 2021, this means under the policy 
terms she wouldve had to notify Ocaso or the local authority about the problem by 
30 October 2021 for the claim to be accepted.
Ocaso asked Ms D in an email dated 23 November 2021 whether the council had been 
contacted about the leak  and said that if it had been, Ms D would need to contact the 
council and ask it to provide her with an email confirming the first date she contacted it. Ms D 
didnt provide this information to Ocaso.
Ms D says the 90 day notification requirement doesnt apply in this case, because its not the 
leak shes claiming for  its the long term unseen damage. But she wouldve had to notify 
Ocaso or the council within 90 days of becoming aware of the incident which caused the 
damage, in order for the claim to succeed, and Im satisfied that the incident that caused the 
damage was the leak, and theres no evidence to suggest this happened. 
Ive considered whether its fair for Ocaso to rely on the policy term requiring notification 
within 90 days in this case. And having done so, I dont consider Ocaso to have acted 
unreasonably here. I say this because the damage was caused by the leak, and Ms D was 
made aware of the leak on 1 August 2021, so  even if she became aware of further 
damage later on when repairs were being carried out  she was aware of the likely cause of 
that damage on 1 August 2021. So I dont think its unfair for Ocaso to have used this date 
when determining whether Ms D contacted them in time  and to have subsequently 
declined the claim because it wasnt notified within the required timeframe.
Insurers usually require policyholders to notify them about a claim as soon as possible, and 
some policies have a specific timescale by which this needs to be done. This is so that the 
insurers position isnt prejudiced  a delay can make it more difficult for an insurer to decide 
whether the claim is covered or not. And if it is covered, a delay can increase the costs to the 
insurer of putting right the problem. I havent seen anything which indicates that it was 
difficult for Ms D to notify Ocaso within the required timeframe. So I dont think its 
unreasonable for Ocaso to have declined the claim on these grounds.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms D, but Im afraid that for the reasons 
Ive given, I wont be requiring Ocaso to do anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman