DRN-2825808
The complaint
Mrs P complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited have caused further damage to her 
vehicle when repairing it under her motor insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Admiral are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mrs P was involved in an accident which damaged her bumper. After her vehicle was 
repaired, she noticed water was leaking inside the canopy, so she asked Admiral to fix it. 
Admiral sent it back to their authorised repairers whod seen it the first time, but they 
couldnt find any issues. At Admirals suggestion Mrs P asked her own engineer to inspect it 
for Admiral to review the results. She did that, and after her engineer found an issue Admiral 
still refused to meet her claim for a replacement canopy, so she complained. 
Admiral replied to Mrs Ps complaint. They said the repairer had told them the rear and side 
windows were open. These were closed before any water testing took place, and as they 
couldnt locate any water getting in to the vehicle through the canopy they returned it to 
Mrs P  suggesting leaving the windows open could have been the issue. Admiral said they 
know Mrs P didnt agree as she said water was still getting inside the canopy, so suggested 
she get it tested by her own repairer for them to review it. Mrs P did that, Admirals engineer 
reviewed that report, and didnt agree any distortion with the canopy would be related to the 
claim. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Ps claim for a replacement canopy.
Mrs P didnt accept this so asked us to look into it. Two other issues were raised by Mrs P 
and addressed by Admiral, but shes not asked us to look into those, so Ive not mentioned 
them here.
One of our investigators considered everything. She found that, on balance, Admirals 
approved repairers had caused the damage, so Admiral should pay for a replacement 
canopy and the cost of installing that. 
Mrs P accepted this outcome, but Admiral didnt. Their expert engineer said:
They dont agree the damage relates to the accident or the repairs.
The canopies for these vehicles are manufactured by a third party and then adjusted 
when being fitted to the vehicle to make a good and watertight seal. So, they couldnt 
agree the slight lifting of the non-standard canopy would have the catastrophic effect 
Mrs P and her repairer have said.
A quick internet search has shown up many cases of these canopies leaking so they 
felt this was a known condition on these vehicles. In their view theres no evidence to 
support the claim and no engineering reason to agree to replace it.
Our investigator considered what Admiral had told her, but she still felt the claim should be 
upheld. She provided the photos and specifically highlighted where the bolts to hold the 
canopy had been refitted incorrectly. She said the repairer seems to have lifted the canopy 
and given the weight perhaps a forklift or a jack was used to do this  causing the damage. 
So, she still felt Admirals approved repairer was responsible for the damage. She said we 
didnt know if there was an option for Admiral to replace the canopy without buying a new 
one, so had asked Mrs P to get a quote. Each of the three quotes Mrs P got showed the 
purchase of a new canopy. The quotes were provided to Admiral when our investigator went 
back to them. And she said Admiral can agree to pay out on one of them, but if they dont 
agree the canopy should be a brand new one, then they can come up with a solution on how 
to find a used one.
Admirals expert engineer came back and said:
They dont accept the canopy has to be replaced but accept some adjustment and 
perhaps new bolts and a seal could be required.
For the weight no forklift or jack would be needed, as when theyve done it 
themselves its a two to three-person job to lift the canopy.
They said unless theyre misreading what our investigator has said the reason for the 
issue seems to have changed  initially it was that the frame of the unit had been 
distorted during the repairs  but now were saying the bolts have been overtightened 
causing the top to be bent and seal to be pinched. They added theyd already 
confirmed all bolts were loosened to relieve the pressure all around, and one side of 
the bolts removed to access approximately 3cm to carry out painting / blends. They 
said the canopy has to be bolted down quite firmly to avoid leaks and provide a good 
fit.
Admirals engineer summed up by saying that what our investigator had said supports their 
view that the canopy hasnt been distorted  so it doesnt require replacing. Instead, perhaps 
it just needs some adjustment with perhaps a new seal and fixings required.
Because Admiral didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties accept the accident itself isnt the cause of the damage Mrs P is claiming for. So, 
to decide whether Admiral are required to meet Mrs Ps claim, I need to be satisfied that their 
approved repairer is responsible for the damage.
From the information I have Admirals authorised repairer did manipulate the canopy when 
completing their repairs  so as a bare minimum there is a clear opportunity where damage 
could have occurred by Admirals authorised repairer.
In one of Admirals earlier notes theyve said the approved repairer raised the canopy to 
complete the repairs. Admirals engineer has said in their experience its a two to three man 
job depending on the work required. So, on the basis it seems the canopy wasnt removed, 
just raised, it seems likely there was an uneven weight distribution which could have caused 
the damage to the canopy.
While myself Im not an engineer, I think its clear the bolts are tightened differently based on 
the photos provided. So, again, suggestive of some kind of issue which could have caused 
the problems with the bolts and seals and the canopy itself as well.I also cant ignore that Admirals approved repairer was given the opportunity to fix the water 
leaks  but said they couldnt find any when this had been flagged to them. Despite this, 
when Mrs P took her vehicle to another garage, they did find a water leak. That could 
suggest Admirals authorised repairer didnt carry out a thorough job when asked to review 
the leak Mrs P had highlighted. And, if they didnt carry out a thorough job the second time, it 
could suggest they didnt do things correctly the first time around as well.
As I wasnt present at the time of the repairs, I cant know for certain what happened. And, in 
those situations I need to decide what I think is more likely than not, based on what the 
information I do have shows me. So, given all of the information Ive shared above, Im 
satisfied its more likely than not Admirals approved repairer was responsible for the 
damage. That means Ill require Admiral to put things right.
Admirals engineer has since questioned whether its necessary to have a replacement 
canopy, or whether the bolts and seals could be considered. But, Mrs Ps garage, an 
authorised dealer of the manufacturer of the actual vehicle in question, have said the canopy 
is deformed and ill fitting. Because of that, Im satisfied a replacement canopy, plus the costs 
of fitting it, is appropriate.
We did ask Admiral about whether a second-hand canopy can be sought rather than a new 
canopy. But weve not received a response to this point from Admiral  and seemingly the 
three different garages Mrs P contacted havent suggested this as an appropriate option 
either. So, I think its fair for Admiral to pay for a new canopy  and given Mrs Ps issues with 
Admirals previous repairer, it also seems fair to allow her to choose where these repairs are 
done.
I note Admirals engineer questioned whether the reason for the outcome has changed, but I 
dont believe that to be the case. Our investigator provided more detailed information 
including photos about why she believed there were issues with the bolts and seals. But she 
also said that she believed the repairer had damaged the canopy. And, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, so do I.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and order Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to settle the full costs 
incurred by Mrs Ps chosen garage for sourcing and installed a new canopy on her vehicle.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman