DRN-4115911
The complaint
Ms H complains about a declined claim she made on a pet insurance policy with Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGICE). She also complains about an exclusion 
applied to the policy by CGICE.
CGICE are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint also concerns 
the actions of their appointed agents. As CGICE have accepted they are accountable for 
their actions (the appointed agents), in my decision, any reference to CGICE includes 
their appointed agents actions.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms H and CGICE. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Ms H had a time limited pet insurance policy for her dog with CGICE, since 2019. In 
summary, the policy provided cover for a specific condition for 12 months only (or the policy 
limit had been reached) from the onset of symptoms. In August 2022, she took her dog to 
the vets as they were unwell, with upset stomach symptoms. The dog was treated for a 
period of time and made a recovery. 
Ms H made a claim against her pet insurance policy - but CGICE declined the claim. CGICE 
referred to previous recorded instances of an upset stomach that the dog had in previous 
years. They also applied an endorsement (exclusion) to the policy as they said if Ms H had 
fully disclosed the previous instances of sickness theyd have not provided cover for any 
claims arising because of it. 
Unhappy, Ms H referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our 
Investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. CGICE didnt accept their 
recommendations  so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Have CGICE fairly and reasonably considered the claim in line with the policy terms?
CGICE have declined this claim, relying on the following policy exclusion:
there would be no cover for any condition that was pre-existing or had shown 
clinical signs of existence in any form prior to the policy inception.
Having carefully considered the evidence here, I find that CGICE have unfairly relied on this 
term. I say this because although its not in dispute that the dog had experienced episodes of 
vomiting and diarrhoea (V and D) in the past  prior to policy inception, no persuasive 
supporting evidence has been provided that would allow a fair conclusion that the root cause 
of the previous V and D was the same cause that made the dog unwell here. 
Ive carefully considered the medical records provided and its apparent that other factors 
may have caused the previous instances of V and D. For example  in July 2013 its stated 
that the dog had been scavenging and may have eaten a rotten plant, in August 2013 its 
stated inapprop ingestion. Regarding the more recent instances (in 2017, 2020 and May 
2022), no clear reason has been recorded as to the cause of those illnesses. 
I find that CGICE have unfairly relied on the relevant exclusion here when considering the 
claim. Whilst not an animal expert, a quick research online suggests that there are over a 
dozen causes of V and D in dogs. For example; viruses, changes in diet, parasites, toxins, 
pancreatitis and other environmental factors such as stress. CGICE have not at all shown 
that the (likely) cause of the V and D here was the same as what had caused previous 
incidents. In addition, no medical evidence or arguments have been submitted to support 
that any investigative/root cause analysis took place to determine what had caused the 
previous incidents and if they were all linked.
Therefore, CGICE cant fairly decline the claim for the reasons theyve given. 
Have CGICE treated Ms H fairly and reasonably overall  including when applying a policy 
endorsement?
CGICE have said that if Ms H had disclosed the relevant information about previous 
instances of V and D either at policy inception or at renewal, theyd have applied the 
following policy endorsement/exclusion:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to The Digestive System with effect from 
05 June 2021.
Their rationale was that the medical history showed that there had been instances of V and 
D prior to policy inception and although this had been discussed with a vet it wasnt 
disclosed at either policy inception or renewal. 
Ive then looked at what CGICE say Ms H wouldve been asked at policy inception and 
renewal about PEMCs. CGICE have said Ms H wouldve been asked:
Are You looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
Are you concerned that after 12 months a Condition is no longer covered?
Theyve also said that it was stated in the assumptions section (Ill return to this point later 
in the decision) of the policy information: 
You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or injury that is pre-existing 
[bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] or if it were to arise within the first 14 days 
from the policy start date or 5 days in the event of an accident.
The relevant law around non-disclosure here is: The Consumer Insurance Disclosure and 
Representation Act 2012 (CIDRA). Our Services general approach to this complaint issue 
(having considered CIDRA) is that if a policyholder hadnt taken reasonable care in 
answering clear questions when they took out the policy and if they insurer had been given correct information theyd have added a policy exclusion or limitation  wed generally say 
that an insurer can add a retrospective policy exclusion.
But crucially, in this complaint, CGICE havent sufficiently demonstrated that Ms H was 
asked a clear question about previous instances of V and D. Therefore, given the questions 
asked, I dont find that Ms H acted unreasonably here. I dont find that Ms H failed to take 
reasonable care. It follows that its unfair to add the relevant exclusion here. 
I also find it unusual that CGICE have stated the following in their final response letter: no 
investigations have ever been carried out for previous episodes of vomiting and diarrhoea, 
and therefore these episodes were not given definitive diagnoses. After our Investigators 
assessment they also said: 
As [dogs name redacted by Ombudsman] has presented with the same clinical 
signs and symptoms on several occasions with no diagnosis being given for any of 
these episodes, I am satisfied that the episode that began on 25 August
2022 was correctly considered to be an associated condition and we are therefore 
unable to provide cover for this treatment.
In my opinion (even placing to one side my finding about Ms H not being asked a clear 
question), this supports that it wouldve been unreasonable to expect that Ms H shouldve 
reasonably answered the question about PEMCs differently.
As referenced above, Ms H also was presented with an assumptions statement. But for 
similar reasons to those already stated, Im not persuaded that Ms H ought to reasonably 
have considered that her dog had a PEMC.
Therefore, its unfair of CGICE to now apply an endorsement. In any case, the questions 
asked by CGICE werent sufficiency clear here to extract the information that CGICE now 
wants to rely on to decline the claim and apply the exclusion.
For completeness, CGICE can apply the usual policy time limits to the specific condition    
Ms H has claimed for here, but cant (for the reasons theyve relied on so far) blanket 
exclude any claims that arise out of illnesses with V and D symptoms. 
Summary 
Overall, I find that CGICE have unfairly and unreasonably declined this claim and cant fairly 
apply the policy endorsement they want to - for the reasons theyve given. 
Putting things right
I direct Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Reconsider the claim and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms and limits. 
Should the claim be successful, Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Ltd need to add 8% simple interest per annum, to be calculated from four weeks after 
Ms H initially registered her claim* until the date any claim settlement is paid to her.
 
Remove any policy endorsement that has been applied as a result of this claim, back 
dated to policy inception. 
*This recognises that even if things had happened as they should have in this case, there 
wouldve been an initial period of admin/waiting before any successful claim was paid to    
Ms H.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to 
follow my direction, as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman