DRN-2495913
The complaint
Mr L complains that J & P Financial Services didnt advise him correctly to invest the monthly 
contributions he paid into his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the money 
remains in cash and he wants to be compensated for what it would now be worth if it had 
been invested according to correct his attitude to risk (ATR).
What happened
In 2013 Mr L was advised to set up a SIPP to accommodate the transfer of a personal 
pension, which was then used to purchase part of a commercial property to be used by 
Mr Ls business. 
Subsequently the commercial property was owned by Mr L, his business partner and by 
Mr Ls brother  who wasnt part of the business. By 2015 Mr L and his business partner 
wanted to buy Mr Ls brothers share of the property  so Mr L agreed to make regular 
contributions to the SIPP to build up a capital sum and buy the remaining part of the 
property. Mr Ls business partner also agreed to make similar contributions to his pension so 
that he and Mr L could own the remaining share equally. 
J & P Financial Services Limited, (J & P Financial)  part of Quilter Financial Limited at the 
time, recommended that Mr L paid £500 per month into the SIPP. His ATR at the time was 
defined as moderate. It was agreed that 1% of the fund would be taken from the plan each 
year for ongoing advice.
Mr L didnt have an ongoing review after 2016  when he took out a separate business-
related insurance policy. But by 2018 Mr L says he discovered that his regular contributions 
into the SIPP were still held in cash  so he complained. He said he was led to understand 
his money would be invested and he wouldnt have made further contributions if hed known 
they would remain in cash. 
J & P Financial said it didnt think it had done anything wrong as it believed the intention was 
to leave the funds in cash because of the impending property purchase. But it did accept that 
it hadnt conducted the annual reviews Mr L had been charged for and hadnt updated the 
SIPP provider with new details for Mr Ls business partner. It offered Mr L a total of £1,750 
as a refund for the advice fees it had taken, which included £250 for the distress and 
inconvenienced caused by administrative oversights. 
But Mr L didnt accept the offer and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said the refund of the ongoing fees was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. But, looking at the advice Mr L was given to make regular 
contributions, he said that while the suitability report confirmed that the money was to remain 
in cash, Mr L disputed receiving the report. So, the investigator considered what advice 
should have been given in 2015. 
He thought that it would have taken Mr L and his partner over five years to save the money 
to buy the remaining share of the property and that it wasnt reasonable to leave the money 
in cash for that length of time. 
He thought the money should have been invested in line with Mr Ls ATR and then the SIPP 
reviewed annually to work towards achieving the sum required to purchase the rest of the 
commercial property. He said J & P Financial should compare the value of Mr Ls SIPP with 
what it would be now had been invested in line with a moderate ATR. 
J &P Financial didnt agree. It made the following points:
Mr L had always said that he didnt want to take stock market risks with his money. 
He seemed happy that it remained in cash. 
Although his ATR had been defined as moderately adventurous it was still agreed 
that, in this particular case, Mr L didnt want the value of his fund to fall.  
Mr Ls objective was to buy a property and he was willing to leave the money 
uninvested until he achieved that objective. 
Mr was aware of how the money was invested through regular statements and 
communications. So, J & P Financial thought it was up to Mr L to make contact if he 
had changed his mind and wanted the funds to be invested. 
It hadnt admitted to making an error to Mr L during a telephone call. Mr L had 
already increased contributions and intended to increase them further where 
affordable.
It reserved the right to question the proposed redress formula.
But as no resolution could be found the complaint was passed to me for a review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said, in summary, that I agreed with the investigators view that 
the complaint should be upheld  but with a slightly different method of calculating the 
redress. I made the following points in support of my findings.
There was no evidence that any investment advice was given in respect of the rental 
income or the regular contributions. I was satisfied that J &P Financial recommended 
that Mr L held the contributions in the cash account of the SIPP. Although Mr L said 
he didnt receive a copy of the suitability report  and wouldnt have gone ahead if 
hed seen a recommendation to remain in cash, I thought there would have been a 
discussion about Mr Ls ATR and the suitability report would only have been a 
summary of that discussion. 
But I had gone on to consider the suitability of J &P Financials advice.
In order to achieve the objective of purchasing another directors share of the 
commercial premises Mr L and his business partner would have needed around 
£60,000. It would therefore have taken them around five years to save that level of 
capital based on the regular contributions they agreed to make. 
J &P Financial would have known of  or been able to work out that position. So with 
such an investment horizon it ought to have recommended that Mr L invested his 
contributions in line with his agreed moderate ATR.
J &P Financials ongoing service would have allowed it, and Mr L, to reduce any 
investment risk if circumstances dictated. 
J &P Financial was the professional adviser here and suitable advice would have 
been to invest the regular contributions for the possibility of increased growth. 
Because the rental income would also have been in the SIPP for at least the five year 
period, then it too should have been invested in line with Mr Ls ATR. 
J &P Financial should compensate Mr L for the loss of investment on his funds from 
the date of the transfer to the SIPP until the date it was removed as his adviser.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L accepted the decision.
  
Initially J & P Financial didnt agree with my decision. It said it thought Id adopted too much 
of a hindsight approach and that Mr L was only ever interested in having the further 
contributions invested in cash to ensure there was no loss to the pension fund when it came 
to buying out the commercial premises. It said it thought it was unfair for Mr L to now change 
his mind and want growth on his funds instead of security. However, it did agree to carry out 
the calculation, although it raised a number of questions about how to obtain the information 
required to complete it. 
But then J & P Financial advised us that it hadnt been a separate regulated entity at the time 
of the advice and had actually been an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Limited 
until November 2015. So it said the complaint should be considered against that firm 
instead. Following further investigation, I accepted that J & P Financial was part of Quilter 
Financial Limited at the time of the advice. Quilter Financial Limited also accepted 
responsibility for the advice and said it would carry out the calculation I had previously 
recommended  when a final decision is issued, and which Mr L accepted.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart 
from them. I think Mr L had been made aware that his contributions would be held in cash, 
but I dont that was suitable advice. Because of the length of time it would have taken to 
build up the capital required to achieve Mr Ls objective of buying the rest of the commercial 
premises, I think he should have been advised to invest the contributions  and rental 
income, in line with his ATR.  
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr L would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr L's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Quilter do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr L's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Quilter should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Quilter should pay into Mr L's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
 
If Quilter is unable to pay the total amount into Mr L's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr L £250 for the disruption to his retirement planning. J & P Financial offered 
to refund Mr L some ongoing adviser charges for the years it didnt review his SIPP. I 
think the formula Ive set out below makes allowance for the ongoing adviser fees
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of the 
transfer into 
the SIPPThe date that 
J & P 
Financial 
were 
removed as 
Mr Ls 
adviser (but 
any loss at 
this point 
should be 
brought up to 
date using a 
percentage of 
loss applied 
to the current 
value of the 
funds.)8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Quilter should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr L wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr L's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr L into that position. It does not mean that Mr L would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr L could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
  My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Quilter Financial Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Quilter Financial Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021. 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman