DRN-3149692
The complaint
Mr V says Admiral Markets UK Ltd (Admiral) manipulated its West Texas Intermediate Spot 
Crude Oil (WTI Spot) Contract for Differences product on 21 April 2020, and thereafter, by 
freezing its price and by basing its price on the December 2020 futures contract, as opposed 
to the near month pricing basis it was obliged to use. He claims compensation for loss 
incurred in WTI Spot positions he opened between 21 April 2020 and 29 April 2020 (when 
he says he learnt about the pricing basis change), for lost opportunity to make profit from the 
positions and for the trouble, inconvenience and personal detriments caused by the 
experience.
Admiral disputes the complaint. It denies the alleged manipulation of the WTI Spot product 
and it says the changes to its pricing were reasonable and compliant with the terms agreed 
for Mr Vs account. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld. He shared his view with both parties. Admiral disagreed with the upholding of the 
complaint, Mr V disagreed with the investigators proposal for redress and both presented 
reasons, queries and challenges associated with their positions. The investigator responded 
to the queries and challenges they made, thereafter neither party agreed completely with his 
view so the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
Overall, in conclusion and in the main, the investigator said:
 Mr Vs long WTI Spot positions resulted from long term planning on his part, 
whereby he anticipated a price drop in the underlying Oil market and whereby he 
reacted to such a drop  below $8 per barrel  when he opened the positions from 21 
and up to 24 April 2020. 
The market faced the unprecedented event of Oil prices going into negative territory 
at the time. Ordinarily, Admiral priced the WTI Spot product using the near months 
future contract as the pricing basis. For positions opened before 20 April the May 
futures contract was used, and for positions thereafter in April the June futures 
contract was used. Due to the global Oil price event, Admiral changed this on 21 
April, it briefly applied the June futures contract as the pricing basis then it revised 
this and applied the December 2020 futures contract for that purpose. It explained 
that it did this in order to provide pricing stability for clients and to protect them from 
unprecedent volatility triggered by the negative pricing event (which had caused the 
May futures contract to also enter negative price territory).
Section 2.7 of the terms agreed for Mr Vs account provided for circumstances in 
which Admiral could  modify, suspend or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, 
all or any of [its] dealing services (in whole or in part) with or without notice. Whilst 
this covered its actions in changing the pricing basis, and whilst it was entitled to 
apply the change and it was not obliged to allow existing positions to continue 
unaffected, it nevertheless had an obligation to conduct the change in a fair and 
reasonable manner.
Admiral made the change on 21 April, but it did not notify its clients until its website 
notice on 24 April. This was neither fair nor reasonable. The changed had the effect 
of significantly and fundamentally altering the WTI Spot product, whereby it was no 
longer the product clients had opened positions in. In this context, clients like Mr V 
should have been given notice as the change was applied, in order for them to make 
informed decisions about their trading in the product.
Admiral did not give such notice, and it should have. It was not fair for Mr V to 
continue to hold his open positions in a product that had significantly and 
fundamentally changed without being told that until the notice on 24 April. Given the 
planning and analysis behind his trading, it is unlikely he would have taken the 
positions he did if he had any form of awareness that the product would change or 
had changed in this manner. In early May 2020 he proceeded to open new long 
positions in the product and on the changed pricing basis, but he did so in an 
informed context, whereas his trading between 21 and 24 April was not in such a 
context.
To compensate Mr V, Admiral should pay him £250 for the trouble, upset and 
distress the matter caused him; it should also void all the contracts he opened 
between 21 and 24 April that were impacted by the pricing basis change, offset the 
profitable contracts against the loss making contracts and if there is a resulting 
overall net loss, that amount should be paid to Mr V as redress.
Mr Vs argument/claim for lost potential profit has not been established. The same 
applies to his suggestion that a CrudOil product issued by Admiral after the 
complaint events was the same as the WTI Spot product  it was not, the pricing 
method for one product differed from the others.
Admiral mainly said the negative global Oil pricing was an extraordinary event; it sent a 
notice to its accountholders on 3 April 2020 about the impending OPEC meeting on global 
Oil supply and referred to the risks of sharp price movements, limited liquidity, higher 
overnight fees and potential trading term changes that could be applied under section 2.7; 
another notice sent on 13 April 2020 was about a change in overnight fees; the pricing basis 
change on 21 April 2020 was applied in an unprecedented emergency situation, with the 
market price dropping rapidly and without time for notice to clients (which is a task that can 
take a long time to complete); it had no prior information about the event, and it had no 
information about further developments across the market and no indication about whether 
the price would continue to fall or would recover; ideally best practice would have meant 
keeping clients informed at the time, but these were exceptional circumstances in which it 
had to act quickly with limited information.
Admiral suggested that the complaint should be settled only by payment of the £250 
proposed by the investigator. Mr V disagreed with this. He also disagreed with the 
investigators proposal of this payment. He referred to personal detriments for which he 
blamed the experience he had with Admiral and asserted that more should be awarded to 
him for trouble and upset. He noted that the detriments had given rise to the need for 
treatment costing up to around $500,000.
Mr V also mainly said the following (which he repeated in his submissions to the 
ombudsman):
Admiral manipulated pricing for the WTI Spot product from 21 April onwards by 
freezing the price at around $8 per barrel. Elsewhere in the market the underlying spot/cash price was rising, but the price for Admirals WTI Spot product remained 
unchanged.
Admiral did not notify clients of the pricing basis change until 24 April. He had written 
to it earlier on that date, to query why the products price had not followed the market 
for days. He did not see this notice at the time and did not learn about the change 
until Admiral wrote to him on 29 April. Shortly thereafter, and whilst the WTI Spot 
product did not revert to normal, Admiral introduced the supposedly new CrudOil 
product, which was exposed to and followed the spot/cash market. Both products are 
either the same or very similar, so why would Admiral take these steps if its action in 
changing the WTI Spot product was legitimate?
Key points supporting his claim are  Admirals unjustified failure to give notice of the 
change as it was applied; it had no right to apply the change because what it did 
fundamentally changed the WTI Spot product and the relevant part of section 2.7 
went only as far as modification, not the creation of a different product, so this section 
does not support the change; in addition or in the alternative, even if the pricing basis 
was to change Admiral should have maintained the previous pricing basis for existing 
open positions on 21 April, until it gave its notice announcement about the change on 
24 April; it should have been obliged to do this until the notice was given; on this 
basis a part of his claim for lost potential profit is established, because he had 
positions that would have made gains (with the positions reaching a value of around 
$32,000) from the price rise between 21 April and 24 April; these are gains he has 
lost due to Admirals actions; furthermore, even more substantial gains have been 
lost thereafter, whereby the underlying price reached the level he had predicted (and 
had planned to hold for) and from which he would have made over $100,000.
Admiral has breached regulations in its actions.
Mr V also presented grounds for his allegation of a conspiracy against him (and against the 
potential for gains in his positions) by Admiral, especially with regards to it allegedly 
misrepresenting itself as being dependent on price feeds from an independent Liquidity 
Provider (LP), when his research shows that the LP is not independent and is in fact 
Admirals parent company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator for reasons broadly 
similar to those he gave.
The unprecedented event of global Oil prices going into negative territory on 20 April 2020 is 
widely known and is undisputable. On 21 April Admiral changed the WTI Spot pricing basis 
by abandoning the June futures contract and instead using the December futures contract. 
Available evidence shows that it did not give notice about this change until 24 April.
Mr V says it was not entitled to do this, regardless of the unprecedented circumstances. I 
disagree. The combination of the unprecedented circumstances and section 2.7 of the terms 
for the account meant, on balance, Admirals response and actions were not unreasonable. 
Mr V says some firms appear to have reacted differently to the negative global Oil pricing 
event. It is equally true to say some other firms reacted by doing as Admiral did  using the 
December 2020 futures contract as the spot pricing basis. I make no finding on this point about comparison. Admiral was entitled to make reasonable commercial decisions for its 
business without an obligation to follow another firm. I have shared the observation about 
what other firms did in order to note that an argument about Admiral following its peers could 
go either way  in line with those who did something different or with those who reacted like 
Admiral.
I do not suggest that changing the pricing basis was the only or best thing Admiral could do. 
I do not need to. It is only necessary to consider the facts of what it did and whether (or not) 
it was reasonable in the circumstances. The notion of protecting clients from abnormal and 
extreme instability and volatility caused by the unprecedented negative pricing event is a 
plausibly reasonable motive/rationale. If no such reasonable motive/rationale existed, there 
could be merit in considering the conspiracy that Mr V has offered. However, the opposite is 
the case in this complaint. In addition, and as I address next, Admiral was contractually 
entitled to do what it did, so I do not find that there is a call to address the alleged 
conspiracy. The complaint can be fairly determined on the available facts and without the 
need to resolve the alleged conspiracy.
The above also applies to the manipulation that has been alleged as part of the claim about 
conspiracy. Available evidence is that the spot products price had the appearance of being 
frozen because its pricing basis had been changed to the December 2020 futures contract, 
so it appears to have behaved like a futures product with around eight months left to expiry, 
with a considerable amount of time that was yet to decay and therefore with little in terms of 
price movement/volatility. In other words, I have not seen evidence that the price was 
actually/actively frozen, in the ordinary meaning of the word(s).
I understand Mr Vs argument about section 2.7, but I am not persuaded by it. The section 
refers to modifying  all or any of [Admirals] dealing services (in whole or in part) . A 
modification is the same as a change; the section covers any of Admirals dealing services 
and it covers the whole or parts of such services; applying prices to the products on its 
trading platform is a part of the trading service that Admiral provided/provides; so applying a 
change to this part of its trading service would have come under section 2.7. Overall, on 
balance and for these reasons, I do not consider that Admiral acted outside section 2.7 in 
applying the pricing basis change to the WTI Spot product on 21 April.
I appreciate that Mr V will say that the change resulted in a different product. I agree, as did 
the investigator. However, that alone does not mean it was outside section 2.7. By using the 
December futures contract  as opposed to the applicable near month contract June futures 
or, if necessary (and if the June futures was deemed too unstable or volatile), the next best 
near month contract of July futures   the product essentially stopped being a spot product 
and was akin to the December futures product. However, as drafted, I consider that section 
2.7 can reasonably be interpreted broadly enough to cover a modification that creates a 
different product. 
The balance applied to the above finding  as also existed in the investigators view  is that 
there could be no fairness or reasonableness in using, for the facts of Mr Vs case, the part 
of section 2.7 that said a modification could happen with or without notice. In the 
circumstances of his case and given that the change Admiral applied created a different 
product, the minimum obligation that it failed to discharge was the obligation to give notice to 
clients as the change was applied. Such a significant and fundamental change could not 
have been fairly applied without such notice. The least the clients were entitled to know was 
that the product that they had opened positions in and/or were trading was no longer what 
they understood it to be. Admiral appears to agree with this, but it says it had reasons for not 
informing clients at the time.
I do not accept Admirals argument on the above. It says it had to make quick decisions in exceptional circumstances without prior information and without indications of further 
developments. These appear to be true. However, what I disagree with is its claim about not 
having the time or information needed to notify clients. In simple terms, it is clear that it had 
the time and information required to apply the pricing basis change to the product, it needed 
no more the same time and information in order to provide notice of the change  very 
important, given that a product that was being traded had changed into something else  to 
its clients, so it should have done so. Even if it could not forecast future development, a 
simple notice on its website that summarised the change and the reason for it would have 
been sufficient and the least it owed its clients.
I do not accept that Admirals notices of 3 and 13 April served as substitutes for the notice 
that was required on 21 April. They served as reminders to accountholders that they should 
monitor their Oil based CFD positions even more closely at the time due to live and relevant 
events in the market, but nothing within them predicted the unprecedented negative global 
Oil pricing and/or the changing of the spot product into [essentially] a futures product. 
Furthermore, for those with opened positions in the product when the change happened, and 
for the reasons given above, Admiral should also have offered them the option to unwind 
their positions. 
As is evident from the above findings, Admirals wrongdoing was in its failure to give notice 
to its clients about the pricing basis change as it happened and in the associated failure to 
give clients the option to unwind their positions. The change itself was not unreasonable, so I 
do not agree with Mr Vs argument that there was an obligation to retain the pre-existing 
pricing from 21 April and until the notice on 24 April. I do not find such an obligation, instead 
the notice should not have been delayed until 24 April and it should have been given as the 
change was applied on 21 April.
I also disagree with his argument about accepting his awareness, on 29 April, of the change. 
He concedes that Admirals notice was on its website/platform on 24 April. In the context of 
its execution only service for the account the notices that it issued on 3 and 13 April should 
have prompted him to monitor website information relevant to his positions more closely 
during this period. He says he wrote to Admiral on 24 April, so he appears to have 
suspected a pricing issue by then  because the product price was mismatching the market 
price  and that should have given him additional reason to monitor the website on this date 
(and thereafter). I have not seen evidence that Admiral was obliged to go beyond the public 
website notification to the extent of writing personally to Mr V to inform him about the 
change. Overall, on balance and for these reasons, I consider that Mr V ought reasonably to 
have been aware of the change on 24 April when Admirals website gave notice of it.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to redress Mr Vs position based available reliable 
evidence. 
There is available reliable evidence of the long WTI Spot positions he opened between 21 
April 2020, when Admiral applied the pricing basis change to the WTI Spot product, and 24 
April 2020, when it issued notice about the change on its website. 
Like the investigator, I consider that Mr Vs analysis and planning  aimed at opening the 
long positions at the support level that he anticipated the market price will drop to, and then 
pursuing gains in the price rebound that he also anticipated  led to the opening of these 
positions. His objective included the anticipation of a price rebound, so it is unlikely he would 
have opened the positions if he knew the pricing basis for the product would no longer reflect any spot/cash price rebound in the underlying market  due to the shift to pricing on 
the December futures contract. 
Therefore, he would not have opened the long WTI Spot positions that he did between 21 
and 24 April 2020. He must be compensated for any net loss he incurred from across these 
positions  excluding those that he closed before the pricing basis change was applied on 
21 April 2020 (because they were opened and closed on the original and undisputed pricing 
basis for the product). 
I order Admiral to unwind these positions as though they were never opened, and to pay    
Mr V any total net loss that he incurred from across these positions. As I said in my earlier 
findings, Admiral was not obliged to maintain the original pricing basis up to 24 April, so this 
order is solely for the compensation of loss that Mr V actually incurred in the positions (as 
defined above), it is not for compensation of lost potential profit had the original pricing basis 
been retained up to 24 April.
I do not have enough evidence to determine what Mr V would probably have done in the 
alternative, had he been given notice of the pricing basis change as it was applied and had 
he traded differently. I also have not found that Admiral was unreasonable in changing the 
pricing basis for the WTI Spot product  it was only unreasonable in its method of conducting 
the change (as addressed above). As such, I do not find grounds to award compensation for 
the lost potential profit that Mr V has claimed.
I agree with the investigators proposal of a £250 payment for the trouble and upset caused 
to Mr V by Admirals delay in issuing notice about the pricing basis change and not giving 
him the option to unwind positions that had been opened. Redress for this has been 
separately awarded above, so this trouble and upset award is not intended to cover or 
duplicate that. It is intended to provide monetary compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr V would have faced as a result. I consider that £250 sufficiently covers 
compensation for this. Beyond this, Mr V seeks compensation for the onset and treatment of 
personal detriments associated with his overall claim of, and pursuit of compensation for, 
lost potential profits, but I have not upheld his claim for lost potential profit, and there is no 
finding of trouble and upset arising from that claim.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Vs case, the complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it happened between 21 and 
24 April 2020) and the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2020 (it was referred to us 
by his email of 27 April 2020), so the applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Vs complaint and I order Admiral Markets UK Ltd 
to pay him compensation as set out above, and to provide him with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman