DRN-4299757
The complaint
A limited company, J, complains that ClearBank Limited didnt do enough to prevent the loss 
they suffered when their director (Mr C) was tricked into making a payment as a result of a 
scam.
J and Mr C have used a representative to bring their complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill 
mostly just refer to J or Mr C rather than the representative. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In August 2022 J was sadly the victim of a 
scam. Mr C lost his wallet (containing Js ClearBank card) and then received a text indicating 
spending was being attempted. Ultimately Mr C spoke to someone who tricked him into 
believing he was speaking to a representative from ClearBank. This was a sophisticated 
scam which involved text messages appearing in an existing thread between him and 
ClearBank. 
Mr C was persuaded that he needed to move Js funds to a safe account. As a result of this 
he instructed a payment for around £9,975 on 15 August 2022 to the account details he was 
provided with. At the time he believed this was going into a new account that had been set 
up for J. Soon after making the payment Mr C realised there might be a problem and 
contacted ClearBank. But ClearBank didnt respond until the following morning. 
ClearBank contacted the recipient bank and said they were told that no funds remained. 
They also declined to provide a refund to J and so Mr C complained. ClearBank said that 
they should have contacted the recipient bank sooner, but that the information they had 
meant this wouldnt have made a difference (as the funds were all spent very quickly from 
that account). They offered £25 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. In summary she didnt think ClearBank should have done more before 
processing Mr Cs payment. J disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review their 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that J also complained to the bank that received their funds. And that complaint 
was considered by our service and resulted in redress to J of around £6,100. Clearly this still 
leaves J at a loss and so Ive considered whether ClearBank ought to refund the outstanding 
loss (or part of it). 
ClearBanks first duty is to execute the payment instructions their customers provide. But 
they also have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best 
interests. Part of Mr Cs submissions are that he didnt authorise the payment as he didnt 
know it was going to a scammer. I understand the point Mr C is making, but under the 
relevant regulations, the payment is considered authorised because Mr C instructed it 
through the agreed processes with ClearBank. So whilst I appreciate he didnt intend to pay 
a scammer, it was an authorised payment. 
That being said, ClearBank should be on the look-out for payments that might be being 
made as a result of a fraud or scam with a view to protecting their customers. So, my next 
consideration is whether the payment was so unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious that I 
think ClearBank should have done more before processing it. 
Ive considered Js points that the £9,975 payment used the majority of the available balance 
and that it was to a newly set up payee, whereas previous larger payments were to existing 
payees. But even taking that into account, given the type of account and its overall previous 
use and activity, I dont think the payment relevant to this complaint was so unusual that Id 
have expected ClearBank to have stopped it at the time. The account history shows that it 
wasnt unusual for payments of similar amounts to be instructed from time to time. 
I agree that ClearBank should have acted sooner upon notification of fraud from Mr C. But 
Im also satisfied that this failure didnt impact what could be recovered from the recipient 
bank. And I think the £25 offered to J is a fair amount for any inconvenience caused. If this 
hasnt already been paid, Mr C should contact ClearBank to arrange this.  
Im sorry that J are left with an outstanding loss as a result of the scam. But as I dont think 
ClearBank are responsible for anything that caused this, or that made a difference to what 
could be recovered, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can direct them to do more 
to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman