DRN-2751216
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Legal & General Assurance Society Limited has unfairly refused Mrs As 
claim for critical illness benefit. Instead of paying the claim, it has voided their policy 
altogether for misrepresentation. To resolve their complaint, Mr and Mrs A want their claim to 
be paid.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs A applied for a life and critical illness policy through an independent financial 
adviser who submitted their online application on 20 March 2018.  It was set up to run 
alongside their joint capital repayment mortgage. It had a decreasing sum assured and a 14 
year term that matched their borrowing.  
Mr and Mrs A were sent a copy of the answers they had given to check. Mr A confirmed he 
had reviewed the answers by making a further online declaration on 11 April 2018. However, 
Mrs As online declaration was not received and L&G sent her a postal version of her 
answers to check and return. This was issued on 23 May 2018 and signed by Mrs A on 28 
May 2018.   
L&G didnt accept the cover right away as it had to seek further information from Mr A. It 
wrote to him on 21 March 2018 about this, before cover could be offered. Once this was 
resolved, it accepted Mr A on standard terms, along with Mrs A on the same basis. The 
policy then came into force on 3 May 2018, and was unaltered by the declarations made by 
Mr and Mrs A, as they didnt make any changes to the answers theyd given.  
In January 2019, Mrs A was sadly diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS). Mr and Mrs A 
therefore made a critical illness claim under the policy for the listed condition of MS.  
In May 2019, L&G asked Mrs A for some further explanations about symptoms she hadnt 
disclosed for which she saw her GP on 22 March 2020, 11 April 2018 and a subsequent 
hospital referral with diagnostic testing in May and June 2018.  
Mrs A said she had suffered from migraines with aura (classic migraines). On occasions 
migraines can cause tingling, visual disturbance and numbness and she was told her 
migraines were likely causing these symptoms. In relation to the hospital referral she was 
told this could also be caused by migraine by the GP had wanted to rule out any other 
cause and this was proven to be the case, with a diagnosis of migraine scarring.  
Mrs As IFA also sent a detailed letter of explanation for Mrs As migraine symptoms. He 
explained how they were adamant there had been no element of misrepresentation within 
the application. He also said that L&Gs failing in sending out a prompt checking your details 
(CYD) form had caused any alleged non-disclosure. 
In July 2019, L&G refused the claim. It said Mrs A had missed out key information when 
applying for the policy and it had to be cancelled from the outset. It explained how it was not 
saying that Mrs A knew she had MS, however it was the events that occurred before the 
policy started on 3 May 2018 which she should have told it about. Mrs A confirmed that L&G 
had full, accurate information when she agreed to the declaration in the application and 
again when she signed the CYD document on 28 May 2018. However, L&G said it would 
have expected amendments to have been made as clearly a number of questions had been 
answered wrongly.
L&G explained that it believed that the facts show that Mrs A must have known that her 
health history should have been brought to its attention, particularly when she received the 
CYD and it showed that a number of the answers she gave were out of date before the 
policy start date of 3 May 2018. Because of this, it was entitled to void the policy altogether 
under recognised insurance practice. 
L&G also said Mr A could continue with the cover in his sole name, if he notified it that he 
wished to do so by August 2018. L&G didnt hear from Mr A, and therefore returned his 
share of the policy premiums too.   
Mrs As GP wrote to L&G in support of her claim. He explained that the earliest he had even 
discussed a possible consideration of MS with Mrs A was 10 September 2018. He also said 
that he understood L&G felt Mrs A should have told it that she had suffered from paralysis, 
but in his view she may not have understood that a transitory weakness would constitute a 
paralysis.
In August 2019, the IFA appealed on Mr and Mrs As behalf. He said:
Mrs A was accepted for cover immediately, and the only reason the joint cover was 
delayed was for outstanding information about Mr A;
though Mrs As health did change before the policys start date, this change was 
suffering from migraines which would not have elicited disclosure from any of the 
questions on the policy;
the evidence L&G relied on from the neurologist Dr O contradicts the information 
supplied by Mrs As GP;
all of the medical notes L&G is relying on were not known to Mrs A until after she had 
made her claim to L&G;
it was L&Gs fault that the first CYD form was not received by Mrs A necessitating the 
sending of a second form;
if the first one had been sent in a timely manner, then Mr and Mrs A would not be in 
the position of having no appropriate insurance cover;
the manner in which L&G has handled the claim suggests it has prejudged Mr and 
Mrs A as guilty of non-disclosure;
however, having had Mr and Mrs A as clients for over 20 years, there is no doubt in 
his mind that they answered all of the questions put to them in an open and honest 
manner;
it was unfair to cancel the policy altogether;
a timeframe of three weeks for Mr A to decide what to do with his cover was 
unacceptably short;
as a measure of goodwill, L&G should have allowed his cover to continue until 
replacement cover could be obtained;
L&G has also failed to consider a proportionate remedy of offering life and critical 
illness cover to Mr A and excluding critical illness cover to Mrs A;
it has taken a very hard line approach to dealing with their claim especially where 
Mrs A was not aware of the content of the medical notes now relied upon;
Mr A may well have to pay more for insurance as he will have to tell new insurers that 
his policy was cancelled;
L&G had made a number of administrative failings, most notably with the details 
form, in his view, L&G ought to pay the claim and recognise it left both Mr and Mrs A 
without cover. 
In January 2020, L&G rejected the complaint. It said it was right to refuse the claim and 
cancel the policy. It accepted that Mrs A was diagnosed with MS after the start of the policy, 
but maintained that if she had told it of her accurate health circumstances, it couldnt have 
offered her cover. L&G also clarified that it had not cancelled Mr As cover entirely, it had 
provided the opportunity for him to continue with cover, so he would not have to state to new 
insurers that his cover was cancelled.   
It did, however, accept that it failed to register Mr and Mrs As complaint on time and they 
had to chase this; and there had been additional issues accepting authority to discuss the 
complaint with Mr and Mrs As IFA. On that basis, it sent them a payment for £650 as 
compensation for the upset it had caused them for administrative failings.  
Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to this service. They said they felt they had been 
treated unfairly during the complaint process and L&G had used bias to refuse the claim. 
They made some further detailed submissions. I have not repeated these here in full, but I 
have read them in their entirety. In summary, they said:   
L&G had made the entire process difficult;  
it has ignored requests from them regarding medical documentation, as well as 
requests from their IFA;
they had asked for telephone transcripts of their conversations and never received 
them;
L&G has shown no empathy for their situation;
they have both supporting evidence from their IFA and Mrs As doctor;
they believe the £650 paid merely represented hush money to keep them quiet;
their IFA has also complained to L&Gs CEO and never had a reply;
they will consider legal action if this complaint isnt upheld;
Mrs A was suffering from migraines and she was not asked any question about 
migraines;
this is also entirely unrelated and irrelevant to her MS diagnosis and to use migraines 
as a reason to avoid the claim and cancel the cover is disgusting;
L&G cannot be trusted to make a fair decision on the claim when it has made a 
catalogue of errors in processing that claim;
Mrs A was not responsible for the delay to the policy going on risk;
L&G therefore accepted to insure her as at 20 March 2018;
they were not trying to mislead or hide medical information and theyre aggrieved and 
upset to have been accused of non-disclosure. 
if L&Gs application had been more specific, theyd never be in the position they are 
now.  
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint, but she didnt think it should 
succeed. Whilst she disagreed with L&G that Mrs A had misrepresented her answers to 
some questions on her application, she did agree that Mrs As original answers shouldve 
been altered upon receiving her CYD form and a copy of her application answers. 
She said that the medical matters between the dates of 22 March 2018 and 3 May 2018, 
wouldve rendered her initial answers as incorrect or out of date. Mrs A knew this when she 
signed the CYD form and therefore she made a misrepresentation. Whilst she understood 
Mrs A had explained she thought she simply had to do a redeclaration because of the issue 
with offering Mr A insurance, it did not alter that Mrs As migraines were getting progressively 
worse and the tests shed received were recent. So the investigator said it was fair to assume these things wouldve been fresh in her mind when she completed the CYD form. 
She agreed it was reasonable for L&G to categorise this type of misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless because it was Mrs As responsibility to review the answers she had 
given, and the investigator believed it was reckless to sign the form without reviewing it.  She 
considered Mrs A shouldve updated her answers and the failure to show appropriate care 
did fall within the relevant law on deliberate misrepresentation.  
Overall, she felt the £650 L&G had paid Mr and Mrs A for administrative issues was fair and 
reasonable. And though Mr and Mrs A said they were away and couldnt properly consider 
Mr A continuing with the cover, they hadnt made any attempt to contact L&G to ask for more 
time. She saw no clear evidence that the payment was hush money  it was offered for the 
administrative failings Mr and Mrs A had raised, and she felt this was fair compensation.  
Mr and Mrs A asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. They made a 
number of further points. In summary, they said:
the first request was by post, completed and returned to L&G but it claimed never to 
have received it, so they sent another;
the initial application asks no question about migraines and therefore Mrs A did not 
make a misrepresentation;
they do not accept that Mrs A had changes to report  these were a continuation of 
existing migraines, and no question asked her about those;
they are shocked that this service could approve of the accusation that they behaved 
deliberately or recklessly;
the IFA and Mrs As GP support the claim  they remain of the view that L&G is 
deliberately avoiding it;
they also remain of the view that the £650 is hush money so they dropped the 
complaint in its entirety;
in relation to the questions that the investigator highlighted, they said all were 
answered correctly;
when Mrs A signed and returned the form dated 28 May 2018, she did so believing it 
was in relation to Mr As disclosures;
because this was a joint policy, it should be treated as such;
if it wasnt for waiting on results from a fatty tissue matter for Mr A they would not be 
in this position and believe the claim would have been paid;
Mrs A wouldnt have completed the CYD differently anyhow  because the questions 
didnt ask her about migraines;
it isnt therefore fair to say that because she answered a direct question about mental 
health issues and disclosed a historical issue of depression that she ought to have 
known to disclose the migraine matter  she wasnt asked about it. 
L&G confirmed it had nothing further to add. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. I know Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly about this matter and my decision isnt the 
answer they were hoping for, but I will set out my reasons for reaching this conclusion below.  When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
Industry guidance and relevant law on consumer disclosures in insurance contracts allows 
an insurer to consider if any misrepresentation occurred from the outset of a policy. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what L&G has done. 
When it received information from Dr O - Mrs As consultant neurologist - regarding the 
claim, it was drawn to her medical history because Dr O was asked when Mrs A was first 
aware of her (sensory) symptoms. He recorded this as 9 April 2018 and noted shed had 
persisting sensory symptoms since April 2018. This was before the policy came into force 
on 3 May 2018. On this basis, L&G sent a targeted medical report to Mrs As GP, covering 
the relevant period preceding the policy application and limited it to asking about 
hemisensory symptoms and migraine. 
L&G says its underwriting rules meant it couldnt have insured Mrs A for MS or for any 
critical illness cover at all. Because of this, it cant pay a claim now. 
It therefore falls to me to look at what Mrs A was asked, and determine if I think she made a 
misrepresentation, upon which L&G could amend the terms it offered and/or avoid the policy. 
The correct position is to decide what ought to have happened at the time of the application. 
That means looking at what was asked against the relevant medical records up to the date 
at which Mrs A signed the declaration on the CYD form. 
Mrs A was asked:
Health Ever
Have you:
had any neurological condition or visual disturbance, for example epilepsy, 
multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, cerebral palsy, motor neurone disease, 
Parkinson's disease, optic neuritis?
Health  Last 5 years
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
paralysis, numbness, persistent tingling or pins and needles, tremor or facial pain 
other than dental pain?
Health  Last 12 months
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 12
months have you:
been referred to or had any investigations in hospital, for example biopsy, scan, 
ECG?
Please ignore investigations related to pregnancy or infertility where the results 
have been confirmed as normal
During the last 3 months have you had any of the following?
any other symptom that you may see a health professional about for the first
time during the next 4 weeks?Mrs A didnt make any disclosures in respect of these questions, either on the electronic 
application through the IFA of 20 March 2018, or on the CYD form signed and dated 28 May 
2018.  
I recognise that Mr and Mrs A feel that the contract of insurance they had jointly with L&G 
was accepted (barring some further queries for Mr A) on 20 March 2018 and on this basis, 
the liability for insuring Mrs A flows from there. They say this principally because the delay to 
the policy going on risk was primarily caused by the need for Mr A to provide some 
additional information.  
But that isnt correct. And the correspondence between the parties confirms as such. The 
letter to Mr and Mrs A of 10 April 2018 states how L&G was able to offer Mr and Mrs A the 
cover theyd asked for on standard terms, and asks then when they want the cover to start  
not that any insurance contract had already come into effect. 
In the application made by Mr and Mrs A on 20 March 2018, they confirmed they had read 
and agreed a declaration, part of which expressly set out that we agree to immediately 
inform Legal & General in writing if there are any changes to any answers given on the 
application before the policy starts. 
So, irrespective of any argument about the delay to the CYD form  until which time Mrs A 
was required to tell L&G if any of her answers had changed, this declaration compelled them 
to let L&G know if any of the answers to the questions were incorrect before 3 May 2018 
even if they had answered differently on 20 March 2018.  
Though I do believe all of the questions to be clear and unambiguous, I recognise that Mrs A 
might not reasonably have identified that she suffered from paralysis, given her GPs 
explanation. And, though I believe that it is not disputed by either party that migraines with 
aura cause visual disturbances, I also recognise Mrs As consideration that this is grouped in 
with neurological conditions in the question  and again, both parties accept Mrs A couldnt 
have known then that shed go on to later be diagnosed with MS.  
However, I believe that the answer ought to have been amended by Mrs A for the two final 
questions set out above (health in the last twelve months), by 11 April 2018 and certainly 
before 3 May 2018. 
Given Mr and Mrs As strength of feeling, I do note that 1) there was no specific policy 
application question on migraines and 2) that Mrs A had a longstanding history of migraines 
for which she routinely prescribed a type of tryptamine-based medication. Be that as it may, 
Mrs A went to her GP two days after the application with a progression of her migraine 
symptoms (occasional visual disturbance and right-sided headache) and it was noted that if 
no improvement was made within two weeks shed need a likely referral to hospital.  
On 11 April 2018, this took place. And by this time, Mrs As symptoms had worsened. The 
medical record (in part) says feels persistant (sic) 'ache on right occipitoparietal region. 
Then shooting pains over right temporal regionseveral weeks of perisitant (sic) fingertip 
tingling in right hand, no weakness 2 days ago had increased shooting pains at night and 5 
minute period of not being able to move right arm, and felt as if she was 'choking'.will refer 
via [transient ischaemic attack] TIA clinic and strong WSG-if symptoms recur contact 999. 
The record made by Mrs As GP also says on 12 April 2018 Spoke to Stroke SHO re urgent 
TIA ref versus immediate review -will discuss with consultant and call back. In the interim, 
Mrs A underwent a CT scan and the GP reported the (normal) results to her on 1 May 2018. 
However, an MRI scan was also required and this was booked for 1 June 2018.  It is clear that, by this time, Mrs A should have informed L&G that the answers to some of 
the questions above needed changing. She had been referred to hospital for an investigation 
and seen her GP about a first episode of a self-described funny turn. It has been recorded 
by Dr O in his letter of 19 September 2018 that Mrs A described a funny turn with pins and 
needles and weakness down her right side, with some loss of vision and difficulty speaking
for minutes. The acute symptoms resolved within minutes but she had difficulty in speaking 
with mixing her words up over the next few days. 
Mrs As symptoms did not turn out to be a TIA  but that does not alter that L&G needed to 
know about this ongoing issue. It had patently progressed beyond her previous experience 
of migraine. And even if the policy questions didnt otherwise elicit disclosure of migraine, 
they were clear and should have prompted Mrs A to tell L&G she had been referred to 
hospital for both a suspected TIA and diagnostic imaging. 
I realise that Mr and Mrs A say they were confused about how the underwriting and 
acceptance process was carried out, but I dont believe L&Gs administrative handling has 
caused that. That there was some delay to the policy going on risk because of a disclosure 
made by Mr A does not alter Mrs As ongoing duty to provide L&G with accurate answers to 
clear questions about her medical circumstances. 
Like our investigator, I believe L&G has reasonably addressed the administrative delays it 
made in respect of the complaint  but these are matters that took place in 2019. I have not 
seen any clear evidence of wrongdoing in respect of the CYD process. Mrs A didnt 
complete the online declaration as Mr A did on 10 April 2018, and for that reason it became 
necessary to send her the CYD form and a copy of her answers by post. Mr A and Mrs A 
have confirmed in any event that Mrs A would not have changed her answers whenever she 
resubmitted the form. Nonetheless, the policy was not put on risk until 3 May 2018 and Mrs 
and Mrs A were made reasonably aware of their duty to tell L&G if anything about their 
circumstances had changed  and it had.  
As the last two questions (as a very minimum) were not answered correctly, I therefore 
believe there was a misrepresentation. Under law, it is a qualifying misrepresentation if it 
affects the terms an insurer could have offered, which L&G has supplied underwriting 
evidence to show is the case here. So once thats been established, the law on disclosure in 
consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as either deliberate/reckless or 
careless. The types of categorisations allow for different types of outcomes. 
I am mindful of the relevant Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice on 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly and I will also take account of consumer 
law on disclosure and representations in insurance contracts when deciding what I believe is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The law requires that it is for the insurer to show that a qualifying misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless. It then further sets out that it is to be presumed, unless the contrary 
is shown(a) that the consumer had the knowledge of a reasonable consumer, and (b) that 
the consumer knew that a matter about which the insurer asked a clear and specific question 
was relevant to the insurer.
The ABI Code further confirms that the typical characteristics of deliberate misrepresentation 
(rather than reckless, which goes further and is defined as complete disregard for the 
question being asked) are Deliberate  in the circumstances, the customer knew, or must 
have known, that the representation they made in answer to a question was incorrect and 
knew, or must have known, that the information was relevant to the insurer. 
I believe that by the time of her second appointment at the GP, Mrs A must have known that her medical circumstances had changed. And, when she was then sent a complete copy of 
her answers in the letter addressed to her (singly, not jointly) on 23 May 2018, she must 
have known that the answers were no longer correct. The letter said: 
We do not appear to have received your completed 'Checking Your Details' form. 
We have therefore enclosed a copy of your application responses, for you to check 
the answers that you gave us. What you need to do now:
1. Please read the enclosed 'Personal Details Document' carefully and check the 
answers you've given us. You should keep this in a safe place.
2. Please tick the correct box on the 'Checking Your Details' form. If you have 
any changes to make, please also provide the relevant information in the box 
provided.
3. Then read the declaration carefully and sign and date the 'Checking Your 
Details' form, and return it to us as soon as possible. This needs to be done 
whether changes have been made or not and even if the policy has 
started. 
And the Checking Your Details form (which had space for any amendments or corrections 
to be set out) said:
If the answers on your application are not correct, are incomplete or are out of date 
[my emphasis] it may mean that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies 
cancelled. In the event of a claim we may request a report from your doctor to 
support your application answers. Please tell us straight away if you need to change 
any of your answers before the policy starts, Please read the personal details 
[answers] document carefully.  
By signing and dating the form you declare that to the best of your knowledge and 
belief the information provided on your application, and where necessary, on this 
form is true and complete. You agree that the answers provided form part of the legal 
relationship between you and us. Please sign even if the details are incorrect o if 
your policy has started.
I believe these warnings should have made Mrs A sufficiently aware that she needed to 
change her answers. And whilst I know the label of the type of misrepresentation is 
particularly upsetting for Mr and Mrs A, that is not chosen by L&G. By law, a qualifying 
misrepresentation is careless if it is not deliberate or reckless  with that assessment coming 
on the balance of the evidence by an insurer. It is indeed the case that cases which fall into 
the deliberate or reckless categorisation are rare, but they are fact specific and an insurer 
must make that conclusion on the evidence before it  and L&G has reasonably done so. 
I am not saying that Mrs A intended to deceive or defraud L&G. I realise that when Mrs A 
completed her application with the IFA, she says that she didnt have any disclosures to 
make. But her circumstances changed materially from her previous history of migraine with a 
number of new symptoms  ones which her GP saw as serious treating them as a possible 
TIA. He reminded her to call 999 on more than one occasion should matters escalate.  
Even if Mrs A didnt know what her GP record said, she was able to recall her level of 
concern about the matter when discussing it five months later with the consultant 
neurologist. I cannot otherwise conclude that the escalation of these symptoms and the 
referral for hospital scans (for which a direct question was asked by L&G) was not or should 
not have reasonably been something Mrs A could recall, particularly as the further MRI scan 
was scheduled just four days after Mrs A had declared that her answering no to a question 
about forthcoming scans was still correct. In the event of misrepresentation that is either deliberate or reckless, an insurer can void a 
policy altogether  and this is what L&G has already done, returning Mrs As premiums to 
her. Im therefore unable to order or compel it to reach a different assessment and pay Mrs 
As claim, as that is not the appropriate remedy for this type of misrepresentation and if L&G 
had known about Mrs As relevant medical circumstances, it would never have offered her 
critical illness cover in the first place.  
Finally, I have looked at the concerns Mr and Mrs A had regarding the loss of his cover, as 
this could have continued on a separate basis. I dont find L&G to have acted unfairly in 
relation to its offer. It wasnt aware they were on holiday, and the parties had been in 
ongoing correspondence up to that point. Three weeks isnt an unreasonable time frame of 
itself, and as our investigator explained, Mr and Mrs A could have chased L&G as it had with 
other matters, if they wished for Mr A to continue, As it is, L&G has confirmed that Mr  will 
not be adversely affected when making a fresh application elsewhere, as I note their IFA had 
previously held concerns about this.  
I know my answer in this complaint wont be what Mr and Mrs A have hoped for, but as Ive 
set out above, I consider L&G has acted reasonably. I cannot ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr and Mrs As circumstances, I cannot uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman