DRN-3303687
The complaint
Ms B complains about how Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited handled and settled a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Another driver collided with an open door on Ms Bs car and she made a claim on her policy. 
She provided details of two independent witnesses. But Trinity Lane said the witnesses 
didnt provide credible evidence it could use to show the other driver was fully at fault. And 
so it settled the claim as 50/50 split liability. But it didnt tell Ms B this at the time. Ms B was 
unhappy with delays in the claim and Trinity Lanes communication. She was also unhappy 
with the repairs to her car. She said a door panel was coming away and the manual lock on 
her replaced car door wasnt working. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
Trinity Lane had reasonably settled the claim as split liability as it was entitled to do by the 
policy terms and conditions. She couldnt see that Ms B had raised any issues about the 
repairs with Trinity Lane and there was no expert evidence to show the reported damage 
was due to the accident or repairs. She invited Ms B to provide expert evidence to show this. 
But she thought Trinity Lane had caused avoidable delays in the claim and hadnt 
communicated sufficiently with Ms B. She thought it should pay Ms B £300 compensation for 
this. 
Ms B replied that she thought this wasnt enough compensation for the trouble and stress 
shed been caused. She said the whole door had been replaced and the manual lock on this 
door was not working. She said she would provide a report from her garage. Trinity Lane 
didnt respond to the Investigators view. So the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the accident and that Ms B had been injured. I can understand that 
this must have been very distressing. I can also understand that Ms B has been caused 
further distress by the increase in her premiums. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Ms B the same as someone else in her position. 
Trinity Lane is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Ms B to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Ms B has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
I can see that Trinity Lane investigated the claim. The evidence it had to consider was the 
two drivers versions of events. These conflicted. It asked the witnesses to provide 
statements. One didnt provide any details of the accident. The other said Ms B had opened 
the back door on her car, which was three door. So Trinity Lane decided that this statement 
wasnt credible. There was no CCTV, dashcam or other evidence available. 
So I think Trinity Lane reasonably decided that the best outcome was a split liability 
settlement. I think it was entitled to do this by the policys terms and conditions. So I cant 
say this was wrong. And as I dont think Trinity Lane made an error in this I dont require it to 
compensate Ms B for the effect on her No Claims Discount or the resultant increase in her 
premiums. 
Ms B also raised an issue about her claim for personal injuries. But, as our Investigator 
explained, because the claim was settled as fault for both parties, this wouldnt be 
automatically covered. So I cant say that Trinity Lane should have pursued this. And Ms B is 
best advised to liaise with the providers of her legal expenses cover to consider her options. 
Ms B was unhappy with the delay in the claim and Trinity Lanes claim handling. Ive looked 
at Trinity Lanes claim file. And I agree with the Investigator that it handled the claim as I 
would expect in the first six months following the claim. During this time, it progressed the 
claim, collected evidence, communicated with Ms B reasonably, and communicated with the 
repairer and the other insurer. 
But after this point Im satisfied that Trinity Lane didnt reasonably progress the claim and 
communicate with Ms B. It didnt respond to the other insurers correspondence in a timely 
manner. It didnt tell Ms B that the claim had been settled and Ms B received a refund of half 
her policy excess without explanation. So I think Trinity Lane caused avoidable delays in the 
claim and didnt keep Ms B reasonably informed about her claims progress. 
Our Investigator recommended that Trinity Lane should pay Ms B £300 compensation for 
this poor service. I think thats fair and reasonable as it takes into account the impact this 
had on Ms B and its in keeping with our published guidance. 
Ms B said there were problems with the panel and lock on the replaced door. The 
Investigator has already explained that this service does not assess whether or how damage 
to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the 
insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether 
an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify 
its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Ms B said she approached the repairer and it told her to contact Trinity Lane. But I cant see 
that she has done this. And I can see that she earlier told us that the garage had asked her 
to bring the car back in, but she hadnt done so. She also said that she would get a report 
from her garage, but this hasnt yet been provided. 
I think Ms B needs to raise her concerns about the quality of repairs with Trinity Lane to give 
it a chance to respond. It may ask her to provide evidence of her claim with an independent 
expert engineers report or to take her car back to the repairer. Without evidence that the 
faults are due to the repairs and that Trinity Lane hasnt reasonably rectified them, I cant 
consider this point further here. If Ms B remains unhappy after she raises this matter with 
Trinity Lane and gives it time to respond, she can bring her further complaint to us.
Putting things right
I require Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms B £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service in handling her claim.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman