DRN-3049767
The complaint
Mr D complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to him irresponsibly in
relation to one loan approved on 31 August 2020.
Mr D complains that after making a very specific arrangement to pay the loan off in two 
months, despite informing Lending Stream that he had health issues which would place him 
in the vulnerable customer category, it failed to treat him as a vulnerable customer, and the 
account management was poor. He says this has caused him distress, inconvenience, pain 
and suffering.
Mr D complains that the debt was defaulted, incorrectly, around January 2021 and then sold 
to a third party debt collector. He says that this was an aggravating factor which led him to 
do something that month which has affected him mentally and physically.
More recently (around July 2021), an additional default has been added to his credit file 
which has had consequences in relation to a failed purchase.
What happened
This section is to explain some of the background. I make no findings in this section.
Mr D was approved for a £600 loan on 31 August 2020 with six instalments of around £190 
commencing 22 September 2020. The last instalment was due to be around £189 on
22 February 2021. From the statement of account record I have received from Lending 
Stream, it looks as though Mr D paid that first £190 and then a serious event occurred in
Mr Ds life which meant that he received medical advice that he needed to de-stress his life. 
So, he called Lending Stream to arrange to clear the debt. From 5 October 2020 a series of 
telephone conversations took place between Mr D and several Lending Stream 
representatives of varying seniority.
The first calls were on 5 October 2020, and in one of them a payment plan was arranged. 
Mr D was offered a long term payment plan which he did not take: instead he wanted to pay 
the whole loan off in two tranches in October 2020 and November 2020 in order to end the 
loan, clear the debt, save on interest charges and remove stress. And he explained the 
reason behind making these calls and informed Lending Stream why he needed to clear the 
debt.
That arrangement was explained to us in an email from Lending Stream: £260.09 GBP per 
month was agreed to be paid first on 22nd October 2020 and second instalment on
20th November 2020. After this, there remains a balance of £54.08 GBP which we offered to 
waive.
After that a series of telephone calls took place which document Lending Stream and Mr Ds 
relationship which deteriorated over the next few months.
 
During those calls Mr D raised several complaints which led to three final response letters 
(FRL):
An FRL dated 20 November 2020, sent by email. I have not seen a copy of this. Its 
been described to us by Lending Stream.
An explanatory email dated 6 January 2021 which was not an FRL but answered 
some of Mr Ds complaint points.
An FRL dated 25 February 2021 addressing the unaffordability/irresponsible lending 
point in which Lending Stream says it did not uphold his complaint.
An FRL dated 8 March 2021 which addressed similar if not all points raised in 
January 2021 and made an offer to Mr D to remove interest from the outstanding 
balance leaving Mr D with £409 to pay. It also said that the account could not be 
placed on hold due to system restrictions.
Mr D referred his complaint to this Service in March 2021, and after explaining his detailed 
story, he has asked for Compensation to reflect the severity of their shortcomings.
Mr D has provided us with medical records covering several years up to April 2021. These 
are being kept confidential. For obvious reasons I have not referred to details but the 
Lending Stream complaints department representative dealing with this complaint has 
listened to the recorded calls and so will be aware of the nature and severity of the medical 
issues Mr D told it. So, I do not need to refer to any of those details.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and asked Lending Stream many times for 
the recorded calls. He did not receive them but he did receive written call summaries which 
were from Lending Streams records. Using those and the information (including medical 
history details provided by Mr D), our adjudicator came to some opinions.
He did not think that the loan had been lent irresponsibly and did not uphold that part of 
Mr Ds complaint.
He did think that Lending Stream had failed to adequately deal with Mr D considering the 
circumstances Mr D had described to it on 5 October 2020 and awarded a distress and 
inconvenience payment of £1,000. His reasons were that Lending Stream had been aware
of the vulnerable status of Mr D since 5 October 2020.
Lending Stream replied twice  12 and 30 August 2021. On 12 August 2021, Lending 
Stream offered to write off the loan debt (interest and capital) plus award £200 as distress 
and inconvenience and remove adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. It disagreed with 
the £1,000 proposed award. Lending Stream added: That said, there was no instance of 
non-responsiveness from our end every time the customer reached out. Additionally, we 
believe we provided all available options to address customers situation timely and in a fair 
manner.
In an email dated 30 August 2021, Lending Stream conceded on several elements. One was 
that its explanations on one point relating to the inability to take payment over the telephone 
could have been sharper. Also, it said, We have indicated in previous responses that we 
accept that we had the potential to handle this matter better.
It also acknowledged that the nature of Mr Ds circumstances is distressing and debilitating 
for him; and we regret if our actions have added additional stress at what was, no doubt, a 
difficult time.Lending Stream wanted to clarify some points which I have not summarised here but they 
related to consent given by Mr D on 5 October 2020, the security aspects of taking payment 
over the telephone, the continuous payment authority (CPA), and Mr Ds access to his own 
banking arrangements and the internet.
Lending Stream repeated its 12 August 2021 offer to write off the loan debt (interest and 
capital) plus award £200 as distress and inconvenience and remove adverse information 
from Mr Ds credit file. It said that if Mr D did not accept this then it wanted the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
Mr D rejected this and thought that even our adjudicators award of £1,000 was too low. 
Despite all the history of the events between him and Lending Stream, it has reported to his 
credit file a more recent default (around July 2021) which Mr D has said has had an impact 
on him, and he wants that considered too. Mr D has asked that the delay in providing the call 
recordings, and the delay in general, be accounted for.
Our adjudicator did reconsider and his second opinion was that he thought Lending Stream 
still should pay Mr D £1,000 distress and inconvenience plus amend his credit file to ensure 
the previous default entry from 2020 (if not already done) and the recent default entry
(July 2021) were removed.
Lending Stream did send to us the ten recorded calls for the period covering 5 October 2020 
to 18 February 2021. These were received in early September 2021.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision dated 13 October 2021. In it I said that I did not think that Lending Stream had lent 
to Mr D irresponsibly. In that provisional decision I went on to give reasons as to why I did 
think that Lending Stream had failed to treat Mr D as a vulnerable customer and its account 
management was poor. 
For these and for some other reasons I explained that I was planning to increase the money 
award for distress and inconvenience, award a further amount for pain and suffering and 
make an award to compensate for material inconvenience stemming from delay. I also 
thought that the outstanding balance of the loan should be written off and that Mr Ds credit 
file be amended.
I gave time for both parties to consider it. Both parties have responded. I return to their 
responses later in this decision.
My provisional decision reasoning and findings are set out in the next part of this final 
decision. It is differentiated by being in smaller type. It forms part of this final decision.
After the provisional decision had been sent Mr D received an email from Lending Stream 
and he was not content to have received it. It was forwarded to us and I have addressed this 
in the next part of this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What follows on the next page is a duplication of the provisional decision issued 
13 October 2021. My provisional decision findings dated 13 October 2021
Irresponsible lending
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) regulations outline that Lending Stream needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have 
carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could include several different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. Lending 
Streams FRL to Mr D on this point was 25 February 2021. I have not seen a copy of it but I dont think 
I need to. In it, Lending Stream did not uphold Mr Ds complaint on that element.
After our adjudicator had issued his view in relation to the original loan approval, Mr D has given no 
indication he disagrees with that part. Normally that would be an indication to me that this element of 
the complaint had been resolved. But due to the detailed nature of this complaint I have looked at the 
loan approval information I have from September 2020.
The amount Mr D applied for (£1,000) was to be repaid over a relatively short term. I think that within 
the context of Mr D being a new customer to Lending Stream and considering his declared income 
(£3,250) and declared outgoings (£1,175) I agree that this was not a loan I would consider having 
been lent irresponsibly. Lending Stream approved a £600 loan and Mr D appeared to be able to afford 
the £190 a month. Lending Stream look carried out proportionate checks, and I plan not to uphold this 
part of Mr Ds complaint.
Disability and Discrimination
Mr D has referred in his submissions that Lending Stream was in breach of legislation. I think Mr D is 
referring to the Equality Act 2010 (the Act). Ive taken the Act into account when deciding this 
complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair 
and reasonable. If Mr D wants a decision that Lending Stream has breached the Act, then he would 
need to go Court.
Mr D has said that he feels Lending Stream has discriminated against him by not making reasonable 
adjustments for his disability. Lending Stream has accepted that it provided Mr D with poor customer 
service. Mr D doesnt see it that way. He believes that what Lending Stream has done goes beyond 
poor customer service. Hes felt discriminated against.
I can understand why Mr D feels this way, and I do think Lending Stream hasnt quite grasped how its 
actions have made Mr D feel. Its not my role to determine breaches of the Act, as that is the place for 
a Court, but I do think that Mr Ds concerns must be recognised as having been listened to. So, the 
money awards I am planning to award Mr D reflect this element and I hope that both parties agree 
they go towards remedying this.
Account management
I have reviewed the correspondence, the documents and listened to all the recorded calls in the 
chronological order Lending Stream have recommended. I have spoken to Mr D about the complaint 
and his current physical, mental and financial situation.I have chosen to quote Mr D as its an eloquent summary of how he thinks Lending Stream has acted 
and failed to act and the consequences on him:
The business ought to have handled my account with a degree of sensitivity proportionate to 
the circumstances I disclosed. They failed to make any reasonable adjustments. It is also the 
case that I made every attempt to make the payment agreed in full - but due to their own 
system problems, this couldn't be processed: I was left with no alternatives - but they 
continued to plough on with their collection activities.
Recent correspondence between Lending Stream and this Service has led to concessions that 
mistakes were made and that distress and upset has been caused to Mr D. And so, the only thing left 
to assess is the level of compensation I think it would be fair and reasonable to award to Mr D.
Starting with the loan balance - Lending Stream has reduced the outstanding balance to around £409 
and recently offered to write this off. I have thought carefully as to whether this is the right outcome 
considering my findings that the loan was not lent irresponsibly.
During my call with Mr D, I established that Mr D now has no salary, is unemployed and his doctors 
have assessed him as having a disability. In the circumstances I am satisfied that Mr D is going to find 
it difficult to repay this loan and so I plan to direct that Lending Stream writes-off the outstanding 
balance (capital and interest).
That leaves me with the compensation element. Our adjudicator recommended £1,000 and Lending 
Stream did not agree with that and offered £200. Mr D considers that more than £1,000 would be 
appropriate.
I explain my findings in relation to the complaint points below. I do not feel I need to stipulate an 
individual sum for each complaint point. The underlying failure to fully understand Mr Ds situation, to 
fail properly to treat Mr D as the vulnerable customer clearly he was, and remains, means that I agree 
with our adjudicator that an award for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable.
The Standards of Lending Practice for personal customers, published by the Lending Standards 
Board, is voluntary and it describes itself as being complementary to the work of the industry 
regulators such as the FCA. And the FCA  which regulates firms such as Lending Stream- has its 
own specialist Sourcebooks and high level and business standards which govern the businesses.
The FCA DISP rules which govern this Service in relation to complaint handling includes our remit to 
determine complaints by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. DISP 3.6.1.
And DISP 3.6.4 expands to say: In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case, the Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
So, I do consider that the Standards of Lending Practice Code is relevant and even though it may not 
be a Code of Conduct to which Lending Stream has specifically signed up to adhere to, it is good 
industry practice. And the context of the national pandemic, when extraordinary pressures and 
circumstances were apparent on all households and individuals, cannot be ignored.
The Standards of Lending Practice for personal customers set out standards of good practice in 
relation to overdraft, credit card, chargecard and unsecured loan products and services provided to 
consumers. So, I consider it relevant to loans such as the one taken by Mr D, and gives an oversight 
of good industry practice.There is a specific section on Customer Vulnerability and I dont plan to cite large sections of it but 
these paragraphs are pertinent (original emphasis retained):
Customer outcome: inclusive products and services take into account the broad range of 
customers to which they may apply and contain appropriate flexibility to meet the needs of 
vulnerable customers. A vulnerable customer is someone who, due to their personal 
circumstances, are especially susceptible to harm. Where customers are identified as, or the 
firm has reason to believe that they may be, vulnerable, appropriate adjustments are made to 
ensure that their individual circumstances are accommodated to enable the customer, or their 
authorised third party, to manage their account(s).
Firms will achieve this: with systems and controls that are capable of assisting in the 
identification of customers who are, or may be, vulnerable, and by having appropriate 
measures, referral points and skilled staff to deal appropriately with the customer once 
identified.
I dont think that anyone listening to Mr Ds telephone calls on 5 October 2020 to two different Lending 
Stream representatives would disagree that Mr D falls into the vulnerable customer category. And 
I do think that the supervisor who called Mr D on 5 October 2020 did show understanding and dealt 
with the financial assistance well. Having said that, the failure, in my view, properly to record Mr Ds 
vulnerability on 5 October 2020, followed by the series of calls where Mr D was effectively mis-led 
about the telephone payment being a temporary technical issue, was wrong.
It was very unfortunate that Mr Ds debit card ending *0575 had been replaced or was about to be 
replaced with a new one around that same time. On 5 October 2020 Mr D did not think that there was 
anything he needed to do.
On 22 October 2020, Mr D called to pay and its unclear whether this was because the Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA) arrangement on the old card had failed or whether Mr D had remembered 
to call to pay. Either way, on 22 October 2020 Mr D was led to believe that Lending Streams inability 
to take payment over the phone was a temporary problem.
I think this because having listened to all the calls the phrase at the moment was used by the 
telephone operators on 22 and 27 October 2020. Mr D was told that although no time frame could be 
given for it to be fixed Mr D was given the impression on 22 October 2020 that it was going to be 
something Lending Stream could fix.
On 30 August 2021, Lending Stream has explained to this Service the technical and security backed 
reasons for not taking payments over the phone, but if that was the case last year then Mr D was 
unnecessarily mis-led in October 2020. And I note that Lending Stream has volunteered that the 
explanations about that to Mr D could have been sharper. I agree  they were wrong.
This was followed by a further series of calls where it was clear to Mr D that the vulnerability issues 
which he assumed had been noted on 5 October 2020 to avoid the stress he was experiencing with 
this debt, had not been noted.
Lending Streams response and explanation to this Service about this lacks understanding in my view. 
It was saying that Mr D failed to give it specific consent on 5 October 2020 to record the sensitive 
nature of the issues he was telling the supervisor that day, and so that lack of consent is what led to 
the later call operators to effectively be ignorant of the issues.
Our adjudicator, in June 2021, asked Lending Stream to outline the usual procedure and policy for 
vulnerable customers. It explained:
We would like to confirm that whenever we are made aware of the customer vulnerable 
situation, we always make sure to acknowledge their concern and assist them with the best 
possible resolution. Also, we would record the customers vulnerability information on our 
records post receiving customer's consent. In this case when the customer called us on 5th October 2020, we addressed the customer 
concern, however, the customer did not provide consent to record any vulnerability details.
Recently Lending Stream has explained why it was that the later call operators may have reacted in 
the way that they did.
He [Mr D] indicated that he was not willing for us to do so. Given this, it is not surprising that 
in subsequent conversations with [Mr D], our agents were not aware of the nature of the 
rationale for agreeing the payment arrangement. They were aware it was a manager 
approved arrangement but not why it was approved.
These responses give me the explanation I sought about what likely appeared on Mr Ds records for 
those later telephone operators to see. And Lending Streams explanation shows me that the 
manager approved repayment schedule (two repayments in October and November 2020) was all 
that had been noted. And if anything further was noted it seems that the telephone operators had no 
idea what those additional points were, either because none were there or they were only accessible 
for more senior people to see.
I think that Lending Stream has made an error and I say this because, having listened to the recorded 
calls I can hear that sometimes these operators do go through the notes and do not appear to have 
read anything in relation to Mr Ds medical issues or his trauma. Or, saw nothing which alerted them 
to the fact that there may be some other issues which may require recourse to a more senior person 
within Lending Stream.
Lending Stream has added: Had we recorded the details of the condition which [Mr D] disclosed, we 
would have been contravening his direct instruction.
I find this statement remarkable and incorrect. That absence of recording the vulnerable nature of 
Mr Ds mental and physical state, stemming from the first customer initiated telephone calls, have, in 
my view, been the source of the problem. The 5 October 2020 call was a conversation initiated by 
Mr D and so it was not likely to have been a call that he wanted to remain so confidential that Lending 
Stream failed to act on, and react to, the content.
Listening to what the Lending Stream supervisor said on 5 October 2020 - it goes no further than you 
or I. followed by Mr Ds reply Yeah sounds as though it was part of the flow of the conversation and 
certainly does not come across as a direct answer to a specific question appertaining to consent 
under any data protection regulations which is what it appears Lending Stream now relies on.
It may have been the supervisor was trying to place Mr D at ease or to assure him that this would be 
treated confidentially, but I dont really think that it was intended that the information would be ignored. 
And if that supervisor ought to have dealt with that information differently in order to comply with any 
procedure Lending Stream may have for situations such as these, then I think that demonstrates 
Lending Stream got it wrong.
And even if my assessment of that telephone conversation is incorrect, in any event, Lending Stream 
as a business had the information about Mr D as the call had been recorded. Mr D had called in to 
explain what had happened and what he needed going forward. So, Lending Streams lack of action 
relating to it was a problem.
Considering Mr D called to organise his affairs and so initiated the contact, I do not accept that 
Lending Streams non-recording of the issues was due to a failure by Mr D to give some sort of 
specific consent. And when I say recording I mean within the systems Lending Stream worked with, 
as the call, obviously, was audio-recorded. And if there had been any doubt on that consent or what 
exactly Mr D was needing or asking for, I anticipate that the supervisor ought to have checked this to 
be crystal clear going forward on what it was Mr D was saying. I do not think this was done on 
5 October 2020 or on any of the other calls with Mr D and so my view is that the failure lies with it.
So, whichever route the supervisor took, or ought to have taken, on 5 October 2020 does not remove 
the obvious fact that Mr D had called Lending Stream and had informed it of his current situation and 
needs going forward. Lending Stream ought to have acted on that and, in my view, failed to do so.What followed was that Mr D came up against the system repeatedly whereby no alternative 
arrangements for him to be able to clear the debt were made available. And the lack of understanding 
by the individual operators after 5 October 2020 as to why he was not in a fit state to either alter 
anything on-line, or amend anything on his on-line account, or receive emails or make a bank transfer 
to a nominated Lending Stream bank account or attend his bank branch in person in October 2020 
during the national pandemic lockdown was missed.
Added to this, a series of other errors exacerbated the situation. Three examples of this are:
Lending Stream has accepted that a long term arrangement plan of £50 a month had been 
added to Mr Ds account and this had been Lending Streams error; and
It explained that a default mark added in January 2021 to his credit file related to the failed 
October and November 2020 payment arrangement, but as a vulnerable customer I would 
question whether this was appropriate at all; and
It has confirmed that the third party debt agency received the account and had it between 
1 and 11 February 2021 after which it was taken back in house and so that suggests an 
additional error.
I plan to increase the award to reflect the more recent (second) default which appeared in July 2021 
and so may well have been reported to the credit reference agencies some weeks before that. It was 
reported to Mr Ds credit file which had an impact on an attempted purchase by Mr D which affected 
him and another family member. And it added to the stress and exasperation felt by Mr D as the 
complaint was ongoing and with this Service by the time that the second default had been added. 
Mr D has explained that it was another exacerbating feature in what had become a long running 
issue.
So, considering the overall picture, and all the circumstances I agree that compensation for distress 
and inconvenience is appropriate and I am planning to increase that money award to £1,400.
In addition, I have considered very carefully an award for pain and suffering.
Having listened to all the call recordings and recognised the deeply traumatic nature of Mr Ds 
experience around the autumn of 2020, then I do think that the additional stress and unnecessary 
systematic approach to Mr D when he ought to have been treated as a vulnerable customer did 
contribute towards a second traumatic event in January 2021.
I have medical evidence sent from Mr D that the day the Lending Stream Notice of Termination was 
sent to Mr D was the day of the second traumatic event and I do not consider this to have been a 
coincidence. Mr D has always been fair to say to us that he does not attribute that event solely to 
Lending Stream, but he does think that the account management leading to a second default, Notice 
of Termination and passing of his debt to a third party debt collector contributed to it. He describes it 
as an aggravating factor and I agree. So, I plan to award a further £700.
That makes a total money award for distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering of £2,100.
Delay in providing evidence to this Service
On 3 June 2021, our adjudicator asked Lending Stream for all the telephone recordings relating to 
Mr Ds complaint. This was followed up on 14 June with a new deadline set at 21 June 2021. The 
information received from Lending Stream on 18 June 2021 included what it described as a 
transcript but having seen that, Id describe them as short notes about the calls with little detail. They 
were not transcripts of the calls.Our adjudicator was not satisfied and had to ask again for the call recordings in order properly to 
assess the complaint. On 24 June 2021 Lending Stream replied and said, it had already provided call 
summaries and
For most of the cases we deal with we have always provided these details and they have 
been enough to reach a resolution by the FOS. For operational reasons we're unable to share 
the call recordings at this point.
Our adjudicator asked a third time explaining to Lending Stream that this Service had identified Mr D 
as a vulnerable complainant and citing the FCAs DISP rules on complaint handling and co-operation 
with the Service was required. Our adjudicator wanted the recordings or an explanation as to the 
operational reasons for the inability to send them.
On 2 July 2021 a detailed word to word summary of the ten calls was sent to us by Lending Stream. 
I have reviewed the word to word summaries. They are more detailed than the earlier account notes 
but are not anything close to transcripts and are not detailed enough for a complaint of this nature.
During this time Mr D had to be appraised of the delays and considering what had already occurred in 
May 2021 where Mr D had attended A&E due to the stress and anxiety stemming from the complaint 
investigation, then my view is that the call recording issue and delay added to that stress.
On 8 July 2021 the call recordings issue was escalated within the Service and in the meantime, for 
expediency, our adjudicator issued his view on 22 July 2021 using the evidence available to him. 
Lending Stream replied to the view on 12 August 2021 with a new offer to resolve the matter. Mr D 
rejected this and on 30 August 2021, Lending Stream did say it would share the call recordings and 
made some concessions and there was a further offer to try to resolve the matter. Those call 
recordings were received around 8 September 2021.
In addition to the DISP rules our adjudicator cited, I refer to DISP 3.5.9 (3) whereby this Service can 
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure of a party to 
provide information requested;
Under DISP 3.5.13 this Service can fix procedural time limits for any aspect of the consideration of a 
complaint including the receipt of evidence.
And under DISP 3.5.14:
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint; and
(2) include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by that failure 
in any award which he decides to make.
I appreciate that Lending Stream has provided us with the recordings now, and so it is not a failure, 
but they were offered after the three deadlines set by the three requests from our adjudicator. That 
caused delay.
Taking all the facts of this case into account, the nature of the complaint and the delay in responding 
to our request for call recordings from early June 2021 to early September 2021 I think that this has 
caused unnecessary delay and material inconvenience to reach a resolution for Mr D. I make an 
additional money award of £400 to Mr D.
End of provisional decision duplication
The recent email
Since the provisional decision as issued on 13 October 2021, Mr D forwarded to us an email 
he had received from Lending Stream dated 18 October 2021. He was not content to have 
received it. I said I would address this when issuing my final decision. I have read the contents of that email. It relates to a new secure payments process. My view 
is that this email was a standard email very likely sent to all customers. The nature of it is 
more of an information and update email to all customers and not specifically addressed to 
Mr D.
I appreciate that Mr D may have been concerned to have received the email in the middle of 
this complaint process with Lending Stream. But I do not think it was a deliberate attempt to 
further add to his distress. Currently, Mr D remains a customer as the loan remains 
outstanding and so its not inconceivable that emails such as this are sent and received by 
Mr D. 
It may be that as and when this complaint ends he asks Lending Stream to purge his contact 
details from its system. But I must leave that to Mr D and Lending Stream. I say no more 
about this email.  
How have both parties responded to my provisional decision
Mr D has accepted my provisional decision and has nothing further to add.
Lending Stream has effectively accepted the findings in my provisional decision and has 
agreed to do as follows (paraphrased):
pay to Mr D £2,500 for any distress and inconvenience and to be paid to him within 
28 days from the date of settlement acceptance by Mr D;
write off the £409.78 from the loan as it says that is the outstanding balance; 
remove all adverse entries from Mr Ds credit file. It does explain that the 
amendment can take time to do  up to 30 to 45 days to reflect on that credit file.
One paragraph relates to a deduction of tax  As part of HMRC regulation, we are required 
to withhold 20% on the portion of the refund deemed to be statutory interest on interest. We 
will provide the customer with the interest certificate that will confirm the tax withheld and the 
net refund amount.
My final decision
Both parties have effectively agreed to my provisional decision and Lending Stream has 
agreed to do what I outlined was the way to put things right for Mr D. In these circumstances 
I see no reason to depart from any of my reasoning and findings set out in the provisional 
decision and those are repeated in this final decision. 
On the tax point - I do not think that the deduction HMRC require applies to the money 
awards I make in this final decision, as the amount of £2,500 is not a refund and it does not 
include statutory interest on interest. The combined money awards for Mr D are to be paid 
over as compensation for the reasons I outlined above in my provisional decision  now 
incorporated here in the final determination. 
Putting things right
Lending Stream needs to do as follows:
write off the balance of the loan, interest and principal;
amend Mr Ds credit file to remove all adverse entries including the late payment 
entries and defaultsI make the following money awards for Mr D and Lending Stream needs to pay these as 
compensation: 
an award of £400 for delay providing us with necessary evidence under DISP 3.5.14; 
and
an award for distress and inconvenience to include the recent default £1,400; and
an award for pain and suffering £700. 
This is a total money award of £2,500. Mr D is to be paid within 28 days of his acceptance of 
this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Lending Stream, does as I have directed above and pay to Mr D the money 
awards I have listed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman