DRN-1658369
The complaint
Mr G and Miss P complain that a hire car wasnt picked up when they were told it would be. 
The hire car had been arranged after theyd made a claim on their insurance policy with 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
All references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
Mr G and Miss P made a claim on their car insurance policy for damage to their car. RSA 
arranged for a hire company, H, to give them a car while the repairs were being carried out. 
On 12 June, their own car was returned to them at around 9.30am. Mr G phoned H to ask it 
to collect the hire car. He says he had to call them two more times to chase collection. The 
hire car was collected at around 4-4.30pm that day.
Mr B complained to RSA. He was unhappy wth the time of collection and felt H was being 
greedy and trying to squeeze more money out of RSA by delaying collection so that the 
period of hire would go into a further session or day. RSA didnt uphold Mr G and Miss Ps 
complaint. It explained that:
Once H was made aware the car was ready to be collected, this was done within the 
relevant timescales. 
Mr G and Miss P hadnt been charged for an additional days car hire as a result of 
the time of the collection. 
Rather than wait for the car to be collected, they couldve returned the hire car to Hs 
branch and H wouldve given them a free ride home.
 
Mr G and Miss P werent happy with this so they came to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters and didnt feel he could say that RSA had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in this matter. So he didnt uphold this complaint. Our investigator also 
explained that, when we consider unnecessary distress and inconvenience, we look at the 
actual impact on the people involved, and not the potential impact a situation couldve had. 
So, whilst he accepted they had to wait for the car to be collected, he felt it was a relatively 
short period of time - the hire car was collected on the same day - and no additional charges 
were applied. He also explained there were options available for them to drop the car off 
rather than wait for collection.
Mr G disagrees. He made a number of points including the following: 
(in relation to the option of dropping the car off at Hs branch) no one tells you that is 
a service they have. 
hes unhappy with the service and information given to him by RSA when he phoned 
to ask it about Hs collection of the hire car. Hes concerned that the cost of the hire car for the whole day is being passed onto 
RSA. He says, if I'm right which I probably am then RSA are wasting money that 
could be used for disabled people to have mats and petrol in a new car rather than 
giving money to greddy car rental outlets.
 
Our investigator responded about these points but still didnt uphold the complaint  he felt 
RSA had acted fairly and reasonably throughout. And he explained that the arrangements 
between RSA and the hire company arent something we can consider.
This matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr G and Miss P that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here and I think hes explained this clearly so theres little for me to usefully add to 
what has already been said. It follows that I dont uphold their complaint in this matter. I did, 
however, want to mention the following points. 
H was phoned at 9.30am by Mr G and it collected the hire car by 4.30pm. So I dont 
feel this was an unreasonable time for it to come to collect the hire car in the 
circumstances and dont uphold their complaint on this point. 
However, even if I thought this wasnt a reasonable time frame, I havent seen any 
evidence that the time it took for H to collect the car impacted Mr G and Miss P. Also, 
I think its important to mention that Mr G and Miss P had the option of returning the 
car to Hs branch using the facility of a free lift home. And they could have taken both 
cars to H and return home in their own car leaving the hire car behind if they were 
unable to wait.
Im satisfied that Mr G and Miss P havent been charged for the hire car. The amount 
RSA has been charged for the hire of the car and the arrangements between it and H 
are a commercial matter for RSA and not something this service can consider here.
 
I havent seen any evidence that RSA failed to give Mr G appropriate customer service when 
he phoned it to complain about the time H was taking to collect the hire car. I note hes 
unhappy that RSA contacted H but I think this was a reasonable thing for it to do  RSA was 
trying find out when the car would be collected to resolve Mr Gs concern. I also dont think it 
was unreasonable that RSA wasnt able to say, there and then, if Mr G would be charged if 
he went out while he was waiting for it to be collected. Mr G had asked for collection and, if 
he went out, H wouldnt be able to pick the car up. So this is something I think RSA needed 
to look into further before confirming. Even so, H arrived to collect the car while he was on 
the phone to RSA. And I note it later told Mr G that he hadnt been charged.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr G and Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman