DRN-1699730
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on an Etam 
store card that was taken out in June 2000.
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Ms C, who is represented by a third party, disagreed, and so its been passed to me 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint. I appreciate she will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
Ms Cs card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet in the shop. PPI was 
added on to the store card account and Ms C says she was made to feel she had to take it 
to get the card and it wasnt properly explained to her. 
Weve seen a number of very similar PPI sales with the same retailer from around this time. 
Weve also spoken at length to the companies involved to gain an understanding of the 
processes that were generally used around the early 2000s. We know, for example, that 
consumers were asked to fill out a card account application which was part of a wider leaflet-
based form. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the applicant was 
given to complete.
Im further helped by having to hand the actual form and credit agreement Ms C filled out 
when she took out her card and there was a section on the application leaflet about the PPI. 
It invited her to either sign her name - or leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. 
There was an indication that there would be a cost involved as the form says that the 
monthly premium will be added to her new card account. Ms C signed at this point and 
therefore agreed to the PPI. 
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Ms C to decide for herself whether she wanted the PPI 
cover. I acknowledge it could have set out the information about the PPI in a better way, but overall, I do think Ms C probably had access to enough information to allow her to make an 
informed decision.
Ms C told us she had some sickness protection already with her job  being 6 months at full 
pay followed by 6 months at half pay - implying she didnt need any PPI. I understand why 
shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the benefits Ms C says she enjoyed. 
But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. She was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in some of these policies. The 
cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave 
more protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost 
her job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month 
until she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would 
have been in addition to any other means Ms C had in place at the time.
For me to uphold Ms Cs complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, I can see Ms C did agree to the policy and had access nearby 
to the information she needed about the rules.
I recognise it is a difficult time for consumers and Im really sorry to have to give Ms C this 
news. But I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman