DRN-1342162
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them two loan 
payment protection insurance policies.
 What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the loans in 1998 and 1999. 
Although the loans were in joint names, the PPI policies only provided cover for Mr W.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account when deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
1998 sale 
Mr and Mrs W arranged the loan and policy using a phone in a branch. Its likely that the 
paperwork would then have been printed off in branch for them to sign. BoS no longer has 
copies of the documentation from the sale. However, it has provided sample copies of the 
sort of forms that were in use at the time. The form contains the question: Do you want 
Personal Loan Repayment Insurance? From what we know of these sales, the adviser 
would have asked Mr and Mrs W the question and then, depending on their answer, a cross 
would have then appeared in the Yes or No box on the printed application form. Based on 
the available evidence, I think it is most likely that the PPI was presented as optional. It 
seems to me that Mr and Mrs W decided to take out the PPI, knowing that they didnt have 
to.
This was an advised sale. Therefore, in recommending the policy to Mr and Mrs W, it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs. This was a single premium policy, meaning that a 
lump sum was added to the loan at the start to pay for the PPI. If Mr and Mrs W were to 
cancel the loan, they wouldnt have received a proportionate refund of the premium. But I 
havent seen any evidence that, at the point they took out the PPI, Mr and Mrs W had any 
identified need for flexibility to end the loan early. So overall I dont think it was wrong of BoS 
to recommend the policy to them.
Looking at the sample credit agreement, I can see that all the costs relating to PPI would 
have been set out clearly, including the interest. So I think that Mr and Mrs W would have 
known what theyd be paying for the policy.1999 sale 
Mr and Mrs W arranged this loan and policy by speaking to an adviser in branch. BoS does 
have the credit agreement for this sale. There is a section for PPI and the Yes box has a 
cross in it to show that Mr and Mrs W requested the policy. Again, I consider that the form 
would have been filled in to reflect what was discussed during the meeting.
The PPI in this case was a regular premium policy, so the premium was paid on a monthly 
basis and didnt attract any interest. I can see from the credit agreement that the cost of the 
monthly premium was clearly set out. So again, I consider that Mr and Mrs W would have 
known what theyd be paying for the PPI.
Both sales
As Ive already mentioned, BoS needed to ensure that the policy met Mr and Mrs Ws needs. 
And looking at their broader circumstances at the time, I think that the policy was suitable for 
them.
Mr W wouldnt have received any sick pay from his job. Mr and Mrs W say they had some 
savings at the time, but having the policy would have allowed them to retain these or use 
them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has said that the PPI wasnt needed as Mrs W had good sick 
pay entitlement from her employer. But as Ive mentioned above, the policy only covered Mr 
W.
BoS also needed to provide Mr and Mrs W with enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policies were right for them.
As Ive already mentioned, I think the cost information provided was reasonable. Its possible 
that BoS didnt provide as much information as they should have about other aspects of the 
PPI, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr W wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr and Mrs W had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. It follows 
that I dont uphold the complaint.
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman