DRN-3326989
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined cover under their legal 
expenses insurance policy to pursue a clinical negligence claim. And they were unhappy 
about the way in which the policy operated.
All references to Amtrust in this decision include its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R had a legal expenses insurance policy (LEI) underwritten by Amtrust as part 
of their home insurance policy with another insurance company. 
In August 2021 Mr R made a claim under the LEI for his legal costs of pursuing a claim 
against his health provider for clinical negligence. When Amtrust were satisfied Mr R had a 
valid claim under the policy, they appointed their panel solicitors on Mr Rs behalf to carry 
out a legal assessment.
The solicitors advised Mr Rs claim against the third party didnt have reasonable prospects 
of success. Based on that, Amtrust declined cover under the policy. Mr R felt his claim was 
unfairly declined and complained. 
There was some initial confusion as to the nature of Mr Rs complaint and whether it should 
be addressed by the other insurers, the solicitors or Amtrust. Amtrust accepted there were 
issues about the LEI they needed to respond to.
Amtrust thought theyd declined Mr Rs claim correctly. They said they were entitled to rely 
on the solicitors advice that his legal claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
They noted Mr Rs concern the LEI policy wasnt fit for purpose. They said an insurer could 
choose what risks it will insure and that the requirement for a claim to have reasonable 
prospects of success is not unfair. Amtrust said Mr R could obtain a second legal opinion at 
his own expense and theyd consider things further.
Mr R was unhappy with Amtrusts response and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think Amtrust had done anything wrong. Since Mr R 
was unhappy with our investigators view, his complaints been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Rs health issues. I can understand hes disappointed he hasnt 
been able to pursue the legal claim against his health provider that he feels is justified. And I 
acknowledge his strength of feeling about the LEI cover available to him.
Im unable to look at any complaint Mr R may have about the sale of the insurance policy to 
him and Mrs R, as Amtrust werent responsible for that. And if Mr R and Mrs R are unhappy 
about the solicitors actions or the advice they gave, theyd need to take that up with the 
solicitors.
I understand Mr Rs underlying concern relates to the operation of the LEI policy and 
appointment of panel solicitors. Broadly he says the arrangement allows solicitors to review 
groups of claims, take on only those with good prospects knowing theyll succeed, and 
recover high fees from the opponent that the LEI insurers wont have to pay. Mr R feels this 
is unfair.
The Financial Ombudsman only has the power to look into individual complaints. I cant 
consider whether an arrangement an insurer makes with its panel solicitors is inherently 
unfair. Mr R would need to raise those concerns with the Financial Conduct Authority, which 
regulates insurance companies, and/or the Solicitors Regulation Authority, which regulates 
solicitors. I can only look at whether Amtrust treated Mr R fairly in the individual 
circumstances of his complaint. So, Ill go on to consider that.
Subject to its terms and conditions, the relevant section of the policy Mr R and Mrs R had 
with Amtrust covered the Costs to pursue a Legal Action for damages following clinical 
negligence resulting in [Mr Rs] personal injury or death against the person or organisation 
directly responsible.
Under the policy, Amtrust were entitled to appoint an Adviser - their panel solicitors - to 
handle any legal claim on Mr Rs behalf. The policy conditions set out that the solicitors 
would provide a detailed view of the prospects of success, including the prospects of 
enforcing any judgment obtained.
Amtrust would only be responsible for the solicitors costs for work they expressly 
authorised, and which was undertaken while there are prospects of success. 
In relation to prospects of success the conditions said:
At any time We may, but only when supported by independent legal advice, form the view 
that You do not have a more than 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a positive 
outcome. If so We may decline support or any further support. Examples of positive 
outcomes are:
a) Being able to recover the amount of money at stake
b) Being able to enforce a judgement
c) Being able to achieve an outcome which best serves Your interests.
The solicitors appointed on Mr Rs behalf provided a detailed assessment of the prospects of 
his claim against the health provider succeeding  and advised the prospects were poor. I 
acknowledge Mr R was unhappy with the assessment and that it allowed Amtrust to decline 
to cover the costs of pursuing a legal claim. 
I dont think the requirement there should be reasonable prospects of Mr Rs claim 
succeeding  which is common in LEI policies  was unfair. Where prospects of success are 
poor, Amtrust risks having to pay the third partys costs as well at Mr Rs costs. Its unlikely 
an uninsured person would want to bear the costs of pursuing the claim if they risked losing. 
I wouldnt expect an insurer to take that risk on either.
The legal advice was prepared by an individual supervised by a solicitor at a firm with 
appropriate expertise to handle clinical negligence claims. Im satisfied the advice was 
properly written and reasoned. Im not aware it contains any factual mistakes or 
misunderstandings. Amtrust arent legal experts. And theres nothing in the advice which, to a layman, is obviously wrong. With that in mind, I think it was reasonable, and in line with the 
policy terms, for Amtrust to rely on the solicitors advice in declining Mr Rs claim.
Amtrust reviewed Mr Rs insurance claim promptly and managed his expectations about the 
process. They explained it was a condition of the insurance policy that the panel solicitors 
were instructed to act for him. They said if the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success or any other terms of the policy werent met, the solicitors would advise Mr R of that. 
And they explained later why theyd declined his claim. I think Amtrust handled Mr Rs claim 
fairly and reasonably overall.
Although there was a delay in Amtrust dealing with Mr Rs concerns, I understand hed 
received responses from the other insurers and the solicitors in the meantime. And there 
was some confusion about the nature of his complaint. We dont generally consider 
complaints about complaint handling. That said, I think Amtrust provided a comprehensive 
response. And they said theyd reconsider his claim if he provided a second supportive legal 
opinion at his own expense. That was fair and in line with the terms of the policy. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr R will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman