DRN-3970140
The complaint
Ms B and Mr O complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC took payments in error related to a 
mortgage and declined to refund them.
What happened
In 2016 Ms B and Mr O agreed a commercial mortgage with Barclays for a new business
venture. The new business premises included an owner-occupied dwelling space. Part of the
arrangements for the mortgage required the repayments to be made from a Limited
Company (F) operated by Ms B and Mr O.
In June 2016, the full amount of the mortgage was paid by Barclays in one payment of
£357,000 and immediately used to purchase the property. Arrangements were then made for
F to make monthly repayments towards it as per the agreed terms of the commercial
agreement.
Those payments were made regularly and in 2020 it was agreed to reduce the monthly
payments for about twelve months. In March 2021, Barclays advised Ms B and Mr O that the
reduced payment period was ending and set out the new payments required to ensure the
mortgage was repaid by the agreed end date.
Around the same time, Ms B and Mr O sent a letter to Barclays requesting a list of
documents related to the setup of the mortgage and numerous emails were exchanged
between the parties.
Later in 2021, Ms B and Mr O sent a request to Barclays repeating their earlier requests and
set a time limit for a response. Due to the content of those letters, Barclays registered a
complaint on behalf of Ms B and Mr O. The matter was referred to Barclays lawyers due to
the nature of Ms B and Mr Os position. Ms B and Mr O stopped making payments towards
the mortgage via F in October 2021. Eventually in November 2021, Ms B and Mr O declared
to Barclays that because they hadnt complied with their requests, the mortgage was now
effectively void.
Various other letters/emails were sent to Barclays which included allegations by Ms B and
Mr O that Barclays were complicit in numerous criminal undertakings. Some of those letters
referred to Ms B and Mr O as the clients of Ms B and Mr O.
In April 2022, Ms B and Mr O brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service
concerning their mortgage arrangement with Barclays. They believed that Barclays had
accepted there was no lawful agreement and therefore the payments made towards the
mortgage were in error and should be refunded.
Barclays didnt believe the matter was proper for our service due to the legalistic nature of
the allegations made by Ms B and Mr O. Barclays believed the matter should be brought to
the appropriate court for their determination.
After considering the situation, the complaint was investigated on the basis that Ms B and Mr
O believed the transactions made towards the mortgage were unauthorised. The
investigator who looked into the complaint thought that because the bulk of payments had
been made by F, it was proper for F to bring the complaint about the issue of authorisation.
He did believe there were some later payments made towards to the reduced payment
agreement (Capital Repayment Holiday) that could be looked into. He considered the
evidence and didnt believe the underlying agreement (the mortgage) was relevant to the
complaint. He concluded that the payments were authorised. The complaint wasnt upheld.
Ms B and Mr O disagreed and commented that:
The mortgage agreement was essentially fraudulent, and this overrode all other
considerations.
The outcome didnt reference various requirements set out by the FCA which they
believe Barclays breached.
The investigators outcome didnt accurately summarise the complaint because the
mortgage is a standard residential one and Barclays labelled it as a commercial one
due to age discrimination.
Barclays never provided a copy of a valid agreement.
They believed they had a lawfully binding agreement with Barclays that no valid
mortgage existed, and they (Ms B and Mr O) are victims of fraud. They suggested
that the document provided by Barclays  appears to be a forgery or something
else entirely.
They referred to a speech made by a Member of Parliament concerning the creation
of money.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Ms Bs and Mr Os complaint on 9 June 
2023. In my provisional findings, I explained why I intended not to uphold their complaint and 
offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
So far, the complaint made by Ms B and Mr O has been approached in relation to whether
the payments were authorised or not. Having spent considerable time digesting the
information contained within this complaint, Im of the view that what Ms B and Mr O are
complaining about is that they believe the mortgage is invalid (and that Barclays have
accepted this), therefore any payments previously made were in error. Therefore, they
should be refunded, and any remaining payments are no longer due, effectively releasing
them from the mortgage.
Id like to clarify a few matters before I deal with the actual complaint. Firstly, the mortgage is
a commercial agreement between Barclays and the complainants, not a residential one. The
papers provided by Barclays clearly set out the type of agreement between the parties and
at no point is it referred to as a residential one and considering what it was for, it wouldnt
make any sense for it to be issued a residential mortgage. I wont be further considering MsB and Mr Os comments regarding discrimination because its not relevant to the mortgage
they agreed with Barclays.
Secondly, Barclays position was that the matter was more appropriate for the courts
because of the legalistic nature of Ms B and Mr Os allegations and beliefs. Whilst its true
that Im unable to make any determination about the validity of the contract between them 
as thats a matter for the court, I can consider the complaint based on a fair and reasonable
basis. So here, Ill be setting out my thoughts based on whether I think its fair and
reasonable for Ms B and Mr O to stop paying the mortgage and receive a refund.
I set out the basic history of the agreement between the two parties above and it seems to
me that at the beginning (in 2016) Ms B and Mr O wanted to start a new venture. To do that
required the loan of a large sum of money to purchase a commercial property and also to
provide living space for them.
Barclays agreed to loan those funds through a commercial mortgage agreement which
required F to make the payments towards it. In essence, F was the company generating
funds through the operation of the business and the bulk of the funds came from it to repay
the mortgage.
It wasnt until about five years later that Ms B and Mr O started asking Barclays various
questions about the mortgage and seeking information concerning the funding of the money
that they received. Initial contact was with their local branch manager who answered some
of those questions, but Ms B and Mr O continued to seek further detail about the financial
arrangements behind the loan agreement. At some point they told Barclays that unless they
responded, it would be assumed that Barclays accepted Ms B and Mr Os position that a
refund was due.
Ms B and Mr O didnt consider that Barclays had responded and then took the position
(which theyve maintained) that Barclays lack of response to their enquiries somehow made
the mortgage agreement invalid and that refunds should be made for all the previous
payments made towards it. They also made various allegations of fraud and offences under
the terrorism act that they believed Barclays/the wider UK establishment were involved with.
Its difficult to see how Barclays could have agreed to Ms B and Mr Os position by their
perceived lack of response.
Ms B and Mr O referred at various times to concepts associated with Freemen principles. I
dont intend to enter into the discussion of whether these principles are relevant for the
complaint theyve made. If Ms B and Mr O wish to make that argument in relation to the
validity of the mortgage they agreed with Barclays, then they are free to raise the matter in
court.
Put simply, Ms B and Mr O entered into an arrangement with Barclays to loan them sufficient
funds to start a new business which would also provide living space for them. That
arrangement was freely entered into and both Ms B and Mr O signed the agreement for the
loan which Barclays later paid to them (£357,000). They enjoyed the use of those funds to
purchase the property and launched their new business.
I havent seen anything that would suggest the agreement was somehow unfair. It doesnt
seem reasonable to me for Ms B and Mr O to take the position that they dont have to repay
funds they received from Barclays. By adopting this position, Ms B and Mr O are at risk of
losing their property because theyve failed to make any further payments towards the
mortgage.
The various FCA references made by Ms B and Mr O refer to the basic principles that aregulated business is required to abide by and how unauthorised transactions should be
treated. Ive thought about these and dont find any particular relevance to this complaint.
My current thoughts concerning this complaint are that its neither fair or reasonable for Ms B
and Mr O to request a refund of the payments they made towards the mortgage which they
previously agreed to.
I invited Ms B and Mr O and Barclays to give me any more evidence and information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. Barclays didnt have anything further 
to add and Ms B and Mr O rejected my provisional decision. They didnt have anything 
further to add and disputed almost the entire decision. 
They believed Id ignored their complaint which theyd  made with first -hand knowledge, 
based on sworn testimony under pain and penalty of perjury and dealt with a matter of your 
own creation.
They believed Id based my decision on hearsay and professional opinion, as opposed to 
material evidence.
Comments concerning various issues with property law and civil tort were made and they 
asked for the file to be preserved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
Regarding the comments concerning the basis for the provisional decision  I can assure Ms 
B and Mr O that all the evidence provided by them and Barclays was taken into account. My 
decision is based on an independent and impartial assessment of that evidence and the 
rationale is set out above.
Their complaint file will be retained following the appropriate policies for such matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman