DRN-4095102
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank)
irresponsibly gave him a credit card that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In January 2011 Mr C applied for a credit card with Tesco Bank. He was given an initial
credit limit of £6,300. The credit limit was never increased.
In 2022, Mr C complained to Tesco Bank to say that the credit card shouldnt have been
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Tesco Bank ought to have made a
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before providing him with credit.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Tesco Bank didnt agree. So, the
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 3 March 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in
the round.
Tesco Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending.
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Cs complaint is that Tesco Bank made credit available that was unaffordable. Mr C
has told us he enjoyed a good salary. The lending on this card was not insignificant, but
not automatically unreasonable in comparison to the income Mr C had, even when added
to his other borrowings.
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because the events happened so
long ago. Tesco Bank told us that they terminated Mr Cs account in 2017. They also told
us that because of the time since the application in 2011 they have no data about the
checks that they completed at the time. And whilst Mr C has been able to provide us with
a credit report, there is insufficient evidence in it to tell me how Mr C was managing his
finances at the time of the lending decision.
And the bank statements that Mr C has provided may not have been required to be seen
by Tesco Bank as part of proportionate checks at the time of the lending. And they do not
tell me how Mr C was managing his other credit.
To demonstrate the difficulty in establishing affordability at this remove, I have noted the
statement Mr C sent us for a different credit card and slightly after the lending decision
was made in this complaint. That shows that his balance largely consisted of a balance
transfer that enjoyed a promotional rate of 0%. So, rather than this adding to Mr Cs
burden of credit, it looks like Mr C was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to
manage his existing debt by taking out that card. I say that because Mr C would have
been saving money on interest he would have been paying elsewhere. So, at this remove
and with no evidence to confirm the early life of the Tesco Bank credit card, it is not clear
that this may not have applied to Mr Cs borrowing with Tesco Bank. And so, if this was a
pattern of lending behaviour at that time, it might not have been automatically
unreasonable for Tesco Bank to have facilitated Mr C in a similar way, if it did.
Mr C has told us about his history with gambling. I have to look at the information that was
available to Tesco Bank at the times it made its lending decision and not to use hindsight.
I have seen no evidence that Mr C made Tesco Bank aware of his gambling at the time
the credit card was applied for which is the period that I am considering. And, as
discussed above, the gambling habit had not led Mr C to blemish his credit file at the time
he applied for the credit.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any
extra evidence from either party to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think
that the credit Tesco Bank provided Mr C was unreasonable. 
I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 17 March 2023. Tesco Bank has not acknowledged the provisional 
decision, made any further submission or asked for an extension to do so. Mr C was 
disappointed with the provisional decision and made a further submission. 
Mr C asked that I issue a second provisional decision as my next act. It is not for either party 
in this complaint to dictate the course of the complaint in such a way. Mr C has responded to 
the provisional decision and I have considered those comments. Having done so, I do not 
feel they are sufficient to make issuing a final decision unfair. So, I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C told us he doesnt understand what I meant by reaching a fair outcome in the round. As 
I say a little earlier in the provisional decision, I comment on what I think is relevant to my 
determination. Thats not necessarily the same as what the parties to the complaint think is 
relevant. In this case, much of what Mr C submitted after the provisional decision was 
argumentative and repeated points raised during the course of the complaint. 
Mr C questioned my saying his income was good. He confirmed what the income was at that 
time. I try to avoid using actual data that might undo our attempts to anonymise the 
consumer in our published decisions. In any event, I consider the income Mr C had at the 
time of the sale to have been not modest. Mr C has provided his figures on the unsecured borrowing he held at the time of the lending 
decision in this case. Our adjudicator explained that his figures were incorrect as some of 
the borrowings hadnt started at the time of this lending decision. Having thought about all of 
this again, I still think the Mr Cs income and his existing borrowings were not such as to 
make the new lending automatically unreasonable. 
Mr C has named the documents that would have shown his gambling. And Mr C deems any 
search that didnt look at those documents to be not proportionate. I can see how Mr C might 
think that argument might help his complaint. But that doesnt make it true. In this case I 
have seen insufficient evidence that Mr Cs circumstances had left adverse markings on his 
credit history such that Tesco Bank might have been put on notice to make more searching 
enquiries into Mr Cs finances. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Tesco Bank provided Mr C was unreasonable. And I have 
not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman