DRN-4047599
The complaint
Miss C has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has rejected a claim for 
veterinary treatment for her dog on the ground that the condition claimed for was identified 
within 14 days of her taking out the policy and therefore excluded.
What happened
Miss C took out a policy with HDI to cover her pet dog, who Ill refer to as B, on 1 July 
2022. On 18 August 2022, B attended his vet because of a lump on his chest which the vet 
thought might be a mast cell tumour. This was removed on 30 August. Miss C submitted a 
claim to HDI for the cost of Bs veterinary treatment.
HDI asked Miss C when she first noticed the lump and she responded that it was in the week 
starting 11 July 2022. When asked to provide a specific date, Miss C said she first noticed it 
on 13 July. As this was within 14 days from the start of her policy, HDI declined her claim on 
the ground that it was excluded by the policy as it was a Pre-existing Condition, defined as:
 
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from another injury or illness, 
whether diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or investigated by a vet or is 
otherwise known to you prior to the start of the insurance or within the first 14 days of the 
policy for illness or 24 hours in the case of injury.
Miss C then said that when she gave the date of 13 July this was an incorrect assumption on 
her part. She says that B saw the vet on 16 July for a booster vaccination. Theres no record 
of the vet having noticed a lump then. She also says that on 16 July B was clipped and 
groomed and has provided confirmation from the groomer that no lump was noticed on that 
date. However the groomer did notice a lump at Bs next grooming session on 17 August 
and on 18 August B was taken to the vet who recorded Lump on chest wall getting bigger.
As she wasnt happy with HDIs rejection of her claim she brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view was that he didnt feel that HDI had treated Miss C fairly as 
further evidence had been provided by Miss C which showed that the lump wasnt identified 
by the vet or noticed by the groomer prior to the policy being taken out or within 14 days of 
doing so. He therefore believed that HDI should settle Miss Cs claim. 
In response to our investigators view, HDI referred to email correspondence from Miss C in 
October 2022 in which Miss C says that:
[B] had his vaccinations with the vet on 16th and I queried it as I thought it was a hernia 
and was told it was not a hernia and it could be removed and tested as it couldnt be 
confirmed as not being cancerous.
HDI says that this shows that the vet was aware of the lump on 16 July but failed to record 
this in their notes. It also refers to emails from Miss C in which she confirms that B was 
shaved in the week beginning 11 July and assumed this must have been on 13 July  a 
Wednesday. Miss C has said that B is normally groomed on a Wednesday. 
As HDI doesnt agree with our investigators view, Miss Cs complaint has been referred to 
me as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of Miss Cs policy from which I consider that its clear that if Miss C 
was aware at any point before 14 June 2022 that B had a lump, that would fall within the 
definition of a Pre-Existing Condition, treatment for which would be excluded from cover.
I therefore have to come to a view as to whether that is more likely than not to be the case.
Ive seen the text message from Bs groomer confirming that in the week beginning 11 July 
2022, B was groomed on Saturday 16 July. She says she doesnt think she noticed a lump 
on that occasion.
I can understand that Miss C, when trying to recall events some months later, mightve 
initially said that the lump was first noticed on 13 July as that was a Wednesday which is the 
day when she usually arranges for B to be groomed, but she has clarified that on this 
particular week she was away from home for work and her partner had arranged for the 
groomer to come on Saturday 16 July.
Ive also looked at the vets notes. These show that on 16 July 2022 B also went to the vet 
for a booster vaccination. Theres no record of a lump being seen. The vets notes also show 
that on 18 August, they noted Lump on chest wall getting bigger. This suggests that a lump 
had previously been seen. Theres no record as to when. It might have been on 16 July, 
when Miss C says she discussed it with the vet who then failed to record it. Or it might have 
been on a previously unrecorded visit.  I consider it more likely that the vet omitted to record 
it on 16 July rather than omitted to record an entire visit. 
The evidence Ive seen therefore points to the lump having first been discussed with the vet 
on 16 July, but this wasnt recorded by the vet. This date takes the claim out of the 14-day 
Pre-existing Condition exclusion.
Ive seen no evidence as to when Miss C first noticed the lump, and  Im not able to 
speculate. In the absence of any evidence that Miss C was aware of the lump before 14 July 
2022, Im not able to say that its more likely than not that she was. That being the case, I 
dont consider that HDI can fairly apply the exclusion it relies upon to reject her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint.
I require HDI Global Specialty SE to settle Miss Cs claim, subject to the other terms and 
conditions of her policy.
I also require HDI Global Specialty SE to pay Miss C interest on any sum paid to her at the 
simple rate of 8% from the date of her claim until payment is made to her.
If HDI Global Specialty SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman