DRN-3208744
The complaint
Mrs R and the estate of Mr R complain that J. Edward Sellars & Partners Limited (ESPL) 
gave them unsuitable investment advice. They say the risk of the investments which were 
bought on their behalf was mis-represented, and as a result they ended up with more risk in 
their portfolio than they wanted or expected.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R met with ESPL in January 2018 to discuss investing some of their available 
cash. They were also looking for advice on potentially consolidating their pensions  but that 
advice is not the subject of this complaint.
ESPL offered them a discretionary portfolio service. In the application form which Mr and 
Mrs R initially signed, ESPL explained that it was a traditional investment manager but that 
it had a plain English ethos  based around an individual service and clear and personal 
communication, on a regular basis. Mr and Mrs R agreed with ESPLs terms and chose the 
Discretionary Managed service which ESPL offered. This involved Mr and Mrs R delegating 
the day to day management of their portfolio to one of ESPLs investment specialists. In this 
same application form, Mr and Mrs R ticked a box to say they had very little investment 
knowledge.
During their meeting with ESPL, Mr and Mrs R gave information about their limited 
investment knowledge and experience, their objectives and their attitude to risk, in the form 
of answers to multiple choice questions (strongly disagree to strongly agree):
They agreed that they were comfortable with the value of their investments 
fluctuating in the shorter term;
They did not have sound financial experience that would help them make investment 
decisions.
They were in between when considering whether theyd be comfortable accepting 
shorter-term losses in order to pursue longer-term growth.
But they were prepared to take a higher risk in order to gain higher returns.
They described their investment approach as a balance between risk and reward.
They agreed theyd do nothing and sit tight should the stock-market decline by 20%.
They were looking to take a medium risk for potential return.
They were more focused on potential gain than risk.
As a result of the answers they gave, they were given a score which placed them in the 
equity focussed category  the second highest.
ESPL defined an equity focussed investor in the following way:
As an Equity Focussed investor your focus is on potential gain rather than risk. You 
understand that the level of potential return on your investments should increase as a result 
of taking greater risk. Equity Focussed investors are typically more comfortable with short 
term fluctuations in the value of their investments; you desire to invest in a broad spread of 
quality individual securities and are comfortable with your portfolio being invested in FTSE 
350 companies, as well as some exposure to smaller and less liquid companies traded on 
the FTSE All share and AIM market.
ESPL therefore went ahead and began building a portfolio that it considered was in line with 
the information Mr and Mrs R had provided to it. For the sake of simplicity, the following 
figures have been rounded.
Mr and Mrs R had two separate portfolios  and they were invested in different holdings. In 
Mr Rs case, he transferred around £74,542 from an existing cash ISA which was used to 
purchase the following investments:
Six companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, representing around 47% of 
the portfolio.
3 all equity funds representing around 33% of the portfolio.
oA fund investing virtually entirely in companies listed on the Japanese stock 
exchange;
oA European fund which invested over 80% in European companies in special 
situations, all caps.
oA European multi-cap fund, which invested in a minimum of 80% European 
equities, of which 90% smaller companies
The remainder in cash.
He then transferred in about £8,200 he held in a UK Equity Fund (minimum 70% shares) 
from a stocks and shares ISA he held with another provider. This represented around 9.9% 
of his entire portfolio worth around £82,808.
Mrs Rs portfolio was larger and contained more holdings. She transferred just under
£57,484 in from an existing cash ISA , injected an additional £20,000 and transferred in
£27,092 held in an existing stocks and shares ISA.
ESPL invested Mrs Rs cash contribution of £77,484 as follows:
Shares in five companies amounting to around 44.4% of the portfolio.
Units in a Latin American fund which was predominantly invested in equities listed in 
Latin America, representing around 8.8% of the portfolio.
Units in a Global Emerging Markets Fund, which specialised in equities in emerging 
markets worldwide, representing around 8.8% of the portfolio.
Units in a fund that invested over 90% in global companies in the mining sector, 
representing 8.7% of the portfolio.
As a result of the investments which she transferred in, Mrs Rs portfolio was also invested 
in:
2.74% in a bond fund, that invested predominantly in high yielding, investment grade 
or government bonds, around two thirds of it abroad.
2.75% in a UK Equity Income fund, invested almost entirely in UK companies.
2.74% in a UK Equity fund, invested entirely in UK companies with growth potential.
14.9% in a fund that invested predominantly in UK shares and fixed interest 
securities.
2.75% in a fund that invested in European equities (eurozone and outside the 
eurozone).
3.3% in cash.In July 2019, Mr and Mrs R complained. In short, they complained there was a lack of clarity, 
accuracy and explanation provided in respect of the risk profile of their portfolios. They said 
they had been clear with their adviser that their objective was a long-term investment that 
provided a safe and steady return, with a small element of risk. They said that they didnt 
expect large fluctuations in their portfolio, and given their lack of knowledge, they expected 
their portfolios to be invested in low risk investments. When they received their first 
statement in May 2018, they were reassured because the investments were labelled low 
and ultra-low risk.
They complained about the lack of documentation they received in relation to their 
investments, as well as a proper explanation of the investments which had been bought on 
their behalf. They said they were also unsure about the fees they had been paying and were 
shocked to see the extent of these. Overall, they said that they believed their requirements 
had been misinterpreted, information [had] been lacking, misleading and inaccurate. They 
complained that as a result, they had been mis-sold financial products that [did not] 
represent [their] attitude to risk, which meant their money had been invested at higher risk 
than expected and stated in [the] annual valuation reports.
ESPL investigated their concerns but didnt think it had done anything wrong. In short, it 
concluded that the adviser had appropriately established their attitude to risk and discussed 
it with them. Their portfolio was constructed in line with that and was clearly affordable given 
their overall liquid assets. It said that it felt the adviser had appropriately discussed all 
relevant issues with them at the time, and they couldve sought clarification as necessary.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021. In it I said:
The applicable rules in force at the time  COBS 9
When deciding what investments to make on Mr and Mrs Rs behalf, ESPL needed to 
ensure that it only invested in securities which were suitable for Mr and Mrs R  based on 
what it knew about them through the fact find it carried out. COBS 9 sets out how ESPL 
needed to do this:
COBS 9.2 Assessing suitability
COBS 9.2.1: Assessing suitability: the obligations
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a  personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its  client.
(2) When making the personal recommendation or  managing his  investments, the  firm 
must obtain the necessary information regarding the  client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific 
type of designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2
(1) A firm must obtain from the  client such information as is necessary for the  firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for 
believing, giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of 
managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks 
consistent with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of 
his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the 
investment, his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes 
of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, 
including liquid assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial 
commitments.
COBS 9.2.3
The information regarding a clients knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of the 
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including their 
complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the  client is 
familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the clients transactions in  designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client.
Were Mr and Mrs Rs portfolios suitable for them?
Im not persuaded the heart of this complaint is to do with whether advice to invest the sums 
they did was affordable for Mr and Mrs R. Im satisfied, based on the evidence available to 
me, that Mr and Mrs R were looking for equity investments  and Im satisfied their overall 
financial circumstances meant that it was suitable for them to invest the sums they did.
In my view, at the heart of this complaint is the issue of risk  both in the way ESPL 
described it to Mr and Mrs R, and in the way the portfolios were eventually constructed. But 
the issue of risk in this case and in my view is, fundamentally, about understanding. This 
isnt about complex trend analysis, algorithms or volatility scores  nor do I think I need to 
opine on any of these concepts when deciding whether it was fair and reasonable for ESPL 
to conclude that it was suitable to make the trades that it did on behalf of Mr and Mrs R.
In my view, the concept of risk as Mr and Mrs R understood it at the time, based on their 
experience of investing and their conversations with the adviser, was simply the extent to 
which their money was, theoretically, exposed to capital losses  and the higher the risk, the 
higher the prospect of those losses being significant.
Mr and Mrs Rs attitude to risk
I agree with ESPL that its important to consider the totality of the answers which Mr and Mrs 
R gave during their meeting with their investment manager. And it isnt my role to decide 
whether ESPLs method for categorising or defining different ways of approaching risk is reasonable or not. The key issue for me to decide when establishing what is fair and 
reasonable is whether ESPL built a portfolio that was suitable for Mr and Mrs R based on 
their attitude to risk  this involves not just an assessment of their preferences in relation to 
risk taking but also whether they had the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved [] in the management of [their] portfolio[s].
When considering all of the answers they gave, as well as their overall circumstances, Im 
satisfied the fact find demonstrates that Mr and Mrs R accepted they needed to invest a 
proportion of their assets in equities in order to have the potential to achieve better than 
average growth. I dont agree with the investigator or Mr and Mrs R that at the time they only 
wanted to take a small amount of risk  that is what they were already exposed to.
Both Mr and Mrs R had significant cash-based assets, and some UK equity funds. Mrs R 
also had a bond fund. Overall, the assets they had were already exposed to a minimal 
amount of risk.
Furthermore, I consider their decision to appoint a discretionary manager supports the fact 
that they understood they needed a more active, and therefore potentially riskier, approach 
to a portion of their liquid assets  in order to generate the higher rewards Im persuaded 
they were seeking.
I say this also based on the individual answers they gave to the questions around their 
approach to losses. Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs R wouldve indicated theyd accept a 
degree of losses and do nothing, nor that they were focused on gains rather than losses, if 
all they were after were low risk investments. I appreciate Mr and Mrs R might disagree with 
this assessment  but Ive taken it without the benefit of hindsight. Mr and Mrs R didnt know 
at the time how their investments would perform  they knew they wanted higher rewards, 
and I dont agree it was misleading for the adviser to have suggested they needed to take 
more risks in order to achieve that objective.
But I do accept that their relative inexperience in investing in the stock market meant they 
also harboured some reservations around significant capital losses. I think some of the 
questions do show that they very much wanted a balanced approached to the construction 
of their portfolio  a spread of investments that would both limit the potential capital losses 
they might incur, while at the time expose them to the sort of growth that was likely only 
going to be possible with exposure to equities.
This means that I dont think the definition equity focussed is inherently wrong. I dont think 
there is much difference between the definition of equity focussed and moderate according 
to ESPLs definitions.
A moderate investor, according to ESPL, was defined as follows:
Your focus is generally on achieving a higher rate of return versus a balanced investor. As a 
moderate investor you accept that there will be some level of volatility in the value of your 
investments. You wish to take on slightly more risk when compared to a balanced portfolio 
because typically capital appreciation and longer term growth is a more important factor for 
you. Therefore in order to try and generate a satisfactory level of return from the portfolio, we 
will recommend a larger proportion of your portfolio is invested in individual stocks and 
shares within the FTSE 350 (when compared to balanced investors).
An equity focussed investor was defined as follows:
As an Equity Focussed investor your focus is on potential gain rather than risk. You 
understand that the level of potential return on your investments should increase as a result 
of taking greater risk. Equity Focussed investors are typically more comfortable with short term fluctuations in the value of their investments; you desire to invest in a broad spread of 
quality individual securities and are comfortable with your portfolio being invested in FTSE 
350 companies, as well as some exposure to smaller and less liquid companies traded on 
the FTSE All share and AIM market.
For context, a balanced investor was defined as:
You tend to focus on risk and gain equally, as a balanced investor you accept that there will 
be some level of volatility in the value of your investments and also acknowledge that to 
achieve a greater growth profile when compared to a defensive investor, you may need to 
take on a little more risk. Therefore in order to try and generate a satisfactory level of return 
from the portfolio, we will recommend a small proportion of your portfolio is invested in 
individual stocks and shares within the FTSE 350.
As above, I dont agree that capital preservation was the main objective Mr and Mrs R were 
after  theres no evidence that this is something they highlighted, and the answers they 
gave indicate, I think persuasively, that gain was at least as important, if not more important, 
than capital preservation. To my mind, this means that Mr and Mrs R could probably have fit 
either balanced, moderate or equity focussed. The reason I say this is because none of 
these categories actually go into detail about the spread of securities within the portfolios.
For example, an equity focussed investor might still require or desire a portion of that 
portfolio to be invested in fixed interest securities, precisely because of the risk of short-term 
fluctuations. That portion might be lower (even significant lower) than the moderate or 
balanced categories  but neither of those categories talk about fixed interest securities 
either.
I dont think these omissions are necessarily significant  ultimately Mr and Mrs R did not 
expect to be placed in a specific category with no regard to their individual circumstances, 
and that is clearly not what COBS 9 expected ESPL to do. And as an indicator of the type of 
equities ESPL might decide to invest in, the definitions did an adequate, if not 
comprehensive, job.
The key issue is in fact how ESPL decided to invest on Mr and Mrs Rs behalf in light of what 
Ive said above about their objectives and their risk preferences. And its in this regard that I 
consider ESPL didnt treat Mr and Mrs R fairly, because Im persuaded both portfolios were 
ultimately unsuitable for them.
How did ESPL manage Mr and Mr Rs portfolios?
As constructed, both portfolios were overwhelmingly invested in equities.
In Mr Rs case, six individual companies made up around half the portfolio, while a third of 
the portfolio was made up of 3 equity funds. In my view, even if the definition of equity 
focussed meant that he accepted thered be some individual securities within his portfolio, I 
dont agree that six companies gave him the broad spread that he might have expected. In 
any event, Ive seen insufficient evidence that this was discussed in any detail prior ESPL 
making these decisions. I think this wouldve been relevant information for Mr R to have 
been given  and the risks associated with taking this course of action ought to have been 
explained in detail given his relative inexperience.
I acknowledge that the individual companies themselves operated in slightly separate areas 
but with the exception of one large cap company, the others were either medium cap or 
small cap  in other words, these were companies which represented a significant portion of 
Mr Rs portfolio, and carried a higher risk of significant volatility in the short term. In addition, 
at least two of the companies operated in commodities  mining and iron ore. So in my view, this portion of the portfolio already exposed Mr R to a significant risk of short term 
fluctuations and, potentially, losses to his capital.
And yet the remainder of his portfolio didnt, by and large, mitigate this risk. The three funds 
which represented a third of his portfolio were all equity funds  and furthermore, they 
specialised in overseas equities, not the UK. In addition, they didnt predominantly invest in 
large cap or even medium cap overseas equities  the Japanese equity fund had no limits, 
whilst the two European funds either invested in undervalued companies in special 
situations, or in smaller companies. In other words, these three funds were also exposing Mr 
R's portfolio to a significant risk of short term fluctuations and capital loss  but importantly, 
they exposed Mr Rs money to markets he had no knowledge of and to risks, such as 
currency risks, which he likely would not have appreciated.
The remainder of Mr Rs portfolio was broadly split between a small amount of cash, and a 
UK equity fund which invested a maximum of 70% in shares listed in the UK. Whilst I agree 
these two elements combined represented a lower risk than the rest of the portfolio, I dont 
think they did so sufficiently to reduce the overall risk that ESPL had decided to take with Mr 
Rs money.
As I mentioned above, the definition of an equity focussed investor gave ESPL considerable 
discretion when deciding what to invest Mr Rs portfolio in. But it gave little in the way of 
information to Mr R about how his portfolio would be invested  he was entirely reliant on 
what his adviser told him. So it was for ESPL to decide, based on what it knew about Mr R, 
what sorts of securities to invest in and what proportion. It knew Mr R wanted an equity 
based portfolio, and it knew Mr R was after better than average gains. But in my view, given 
the answers Mr R gave, exposing so much of his money to overseas markets and a handful 
of small or medium cap companies was far outside the level of risk he was willing to take. Im 
also persuaded that he lacked the knowledge and experience to fully appreciate these risks, 
particularly in relation to overseas markets and smaller companies. To make matters worse, 
Im not persuaded that this approach was ever discussed or agreed with him. For these 
reasons, Im minded to conclude that the portfolio was unsuitable for him.
And, broadly speaking, Ive reached the same conclusion when looking at Mrs Rs portfolio 
and for the same reasons.
Although Mrs Rs portfolio was larger and contained more holdings, in my view, ESPL 
adopted the same higher risk approach to the way it was constructed. From her initial 
investment of £77,484, ESPL invested in five companies and three equity funds.
In Mrs Rs case, the five individual companies were FTSE 250 and FTSE 100 companies  
so I acknowledge that broadly these were large companies and their value wouldnt, in 
theory, be expected to fluctuate excessively. And I also acknowledge that these companies 
didnt operate in the same industry and werent, therefore, exposed to the same risks.
All that being the case, these five companies still represented over 44% of Mrs Rs portfolio
 so the overall fortunes of Mrs Rs portfolio were bound to the economic performance of 
these five companies.
But most importantly, Im not persuaded the rest of the portfolio mitigated any of this risk. 
Over 26% of the portfolio was invested in funds that invested in Latin America, emerging 
markets and the mining sector. Im not persuaded Mrs R understood that shed have such a 
significant exposure to overseas markets in her portfolio  and Im not persuaded that it was 
in line with the amount of risk she was willing to take to expose three quarters of her portfolio 
to 5 companies and 3 overseas equity funds. Furthermore, as with Mr R, Im not persuaded 
she wouldve understood or fully appreciated the types of risks overseas markets represented  especially when considering Latin America and emerging markets more 
generally. As with Mr R, I think Mrs R would not have fully understood the level of potential 
short-term volatility that her portfolio was exposed to  and in her case too, Im not 
persuaded this approach was agreed or discussed with her in sufficient detail.
The remainder of Mrs Rs portfolio was made up of securities which Mrs R transferred in 
from a different stocks and shares ISA  amounting to just over £27,000. But these 
securities were overwhelmingly equities too (although predominantly in the UK)  with only a 
limited proportion in cash and fixed interest.
This means that while almost three quarters of the portfolio was already exposed to higher 
risk securities, the remainder did nothing to mitigate the level of risk already present in the 
portfolio in such a way as to bring it in line with what Im persuaded Mrs R was looking for. 
For all these reasons, Im currently minded to conclude that Mrs Rs portfolio was unsuitable 
for her too.
Summary of findings
As Ive mentioned, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs R were both after portfolios which would be 
exposed to a significant amount of equities. Im persuaded they accepted this level of risk, 
and Im satisfied the equity focussed definition highlighted that this is how, broadly 
speaking, ESPL would go ahead and invest on their behalf. Im also persuaded that given 
their overall financial circumstances, investing the amounts they did in actively managed 
portfolios made sense and was broadly in line with their objectives, capacity for loss and 
attitude to risk.
But when looking at the detail of how ESP decided to use its discretion, Im currently minded 
to conclude that it lost sight of Mr and Mrs Rs specific circumstances. In my view, it didnt 
sufficiently take into account Mr and Mrs R lack of experience  particularly their limited 
experience with anything beyond some fairly mainstream UK equity funds. In my view, 
before proceeding to invest so much of their money overseas, detailed discussions ought to 
have been had with them in order to ensure they understood and appreciated the additional 
and different risks that such investments would represent. The fact that in both cases almost 
half the portfolios were invested in just a few companies I think exacerbated the potential for 
significant losses  and again, Im not persuaded this was something which Mr and Mrs R 
were made aware of or fully understood.
Ive considered the comments ESPL has made about the conversations it had with Mr and 
Mrs R, but Im not persuaded those conversations change what had already happened.
Especially because the statements Mr and Mrs R received categorised the above 
investments as low or ultra-low risk  so in addition to these investments being unsuitable for 
them, they were also labelled in a way which in my view was misleading.
Regardless of what ESPL thought about the future prospects of a fund investing in Latin 
America or emerging markets, or their past performance, Im not persuaded it was accurate 
to describe these funds as low risk, unless ESPL thoroughly explained what it means by 
low risk  and yet this is what the statements Mrs R received said. 
Both statements seemed to categorise all the above investments as low risk  and in my 
view, without any additional context or information, given Mr and Mrs Rs investment 
knowledge and experience, they wouldve understandably been reassured that their 
portfolios werent exposed to excessive levels of risk of capital loss. And Im satisfied that 
had they understood what their portfolios would be invested in, they wouldve chosen a 
different investment proposition.For all these reasons, Im satisfied that ESPL did not act fairly and reasonably by investing 
the way that it did on behalf of Mr and Mrs R and, ultimately, took decisions to trade which 
were not suitable for them. Im therefore satisfied it ought to put things right for them as if it 
had given them suitable advice.
ESPLs response to my provisional decision
Mr R sadly passed away during our investigation. I will therefore refer to him as the late Mr R 
from here on. 
ESPL didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said that it was concerned I had come to 
my conclusion by looking at each portfolio in isolation, but at the time Mrs R and the late Mr 
R came to it for advice, it offered couples the option of having the portfolio run as one. This 
had the benefit of avoiding higher dealing costs whenever a change to the portfolios was 
required, as they would both have transactions at every change. Mrs R and the late Mr R 
agreed with this approach at the time. It said that considering one portfolio in isolation gave 
an unbalanced picture. 
ESPL said that when looking at the portfolios together, it matched their risk profile and was 
in line with their World View at the time of investing. ESPL said that I acknowledged in my 
provisional decision that Mrs R and the late Mr R were looking for equity investments, and 
the portfolio it recommended fulfilled that. 
It said that according to FE Analytics Scoring (with the exception of the Latin American fund), 
all the other funds were less volatile than the FTSE100. It said that it didnt think Id fully 
appreciated the importance of the analytics it used when recommending specific 
investments. 
It further said:
This is the basis on which we build our portfolios, using recognised, industry standard 
technical tools that are used industry wide to measure risk and diversification benefit within 
them. It was a quirk of our old CRM system that the classification of investment types 
worked on the basis that the FTSE100 was low risk, FTSE250 medium and anything else 
higher. 
All collectives were low risk based on the fact they were collectives with an underlying 
spread of risk. This was not ideal as it had the potential to cause confusion. It was however 
fully explained in detail with the clients at inception and in further detail [] in January 2019.
ESPL said that due to the softening of the clients attitude to risk after the first year of 
investment, ESPL offered to change the makeup of the portfolio at a significantly reduced 
cost on the basis that perhaps they were invested in the wrong place. Mrs R and the late 
Mr R rejected this and affirmed their understanding and comfort with what and where they 
were invested in. 
It said that this was not a quick phone call, but a lengthy meeting (over two hours) at the 
clients home at which [ESPL] took significant efforts to ensure that they both understood 
fully and were happy with how things had been invested, which they confirmed they were. It 
said that it didnt think it couldve done more to match the clients needs or ensure their 
understanding. It also disagreed with my proposal for putting things right. It said that it was unfair to penalise 
ESPL past the point when it offered to change the portfolios and for the time it has taken for 
our service to resolve the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional findings  and I confirm 
them as final. 
Ive given very careful consideration to the comments ESPL has provided. Id like to make 
clear that I considered the portfolios together in light of Mrs Rs and the late Mr Rs 
circumstances  and so it isnt the case that Ive only looked at each in isolation. But in my 
view, whether taken together, or individually, the portfolios were not suitable for Mrs R and 
the late Mr R  and its for that reason I considered the complaint should be upheld. Below I 
address ESPLs comments and explain why Ive not been persuaded to alter my findings. 
The suitability of the portfolios
Whilst I acknowledge what EPSL has said about the lengths it went to in explaining what 
was in Mrs Rs and the late Mr Rs portfolios, Mrs Rs recollection of that meeting is different. 
Shes told the service that during this meeting the risk of their portfolio wasnt discussed with 
them in detail, and much of the conversation was beyond their level of understanding. She 
also explained that neither her nor her late husband thought it necessary to de-risk or 
change the portfolios, because they werent aware of the significant losses theyd already 
incurred  and werent aware about the level of risk they were in fact exposed to. 
Furthermore, Mrs R explained that they had told ESPL that they were looking for a steady 
and safe return on their investment  but ESPLs adviser didnt talk specifically about what 
their portfolios were invested in, and instead gave them generic information about the 
markets and the wider economic climate which they didnt understand. 
So Ive also considered the notes of that meeting  and in my view, these notes dont 
demonstrate a detailed discussion about Mrs Rs and the late Mr Rs portfolios. Its clear to 
me that some discussion was had with them  but given ESPLs view of risk, and the 
analytics they used, Im persuaded that the conversation during this meeting would very 
much have been a reassuring one. It seems to me that the conversation was primarily about 
being invested in the market  which as Ive said in my provisional decision, Im persuaded is 
something they both wanted. 
However, Im not persuaded that in this meeting Mrs R and the late Mr R were given the 
explanations required for them to understand the types of investments that ESPL had bought 
for them, and the precise nature of the risks that they were taking. As I said in my provisional 
decision, in my view the various definitions of the type of risk ESPL considered Mrs R and 
the late Mr R were able and willing to take did not give detailed information about the types 
of investments which would be bought on their behalf. And the statements didnt help either 
 because they classified investments in ways which, for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision, would very likely mislead an inexperienced investor. 
For example, in the late Mr Rs portfolio shares in five companies listed on FTSE350 were 
categorised as low risk, and the same with funds which specialised in developing 
economies or alternative investments. I understand ESPLs position that the tools and analytics it uses justified the inclusion of 
these investments in Mrs Rs and the late Mr Rs portfolio given their attitude to risk  and 
whilst Ive not verified this, I understand the comments it makes about how these 
investments compared in terms of volatility to other benchmarks. But Im satisfied that ESPL 
was required to recommend investments which were suitable in all the circumstances  and 
whilst I acknowledge ESPLs use of various analytics, tools and other metrics, these are not 
going to be determinative in assessing whether, in the round, the investments were suitable 
for Mrs R and the late Mr R. 
In my view, these investments did not carry a low risk of capital loss  and it was misleading 
to have described them in that way. And Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that 
the conversations ESPL was having with Mrs R and the late Mr R clarified the relative risk of 
the investments which it had bought for them versus what the statements were describing 
them as. 
Furthermore, I remain of the view that EPSL took insufficient steps to ensure that the types 
and spread of investments which it had bought for them were fully explained in a way which 
Mrs R and the late Mr R could understand. In my view, given their age and their lack of 
experience, as well as their objectives, ESPL needed to ensure that direct investments, or 
investments in non-UK or non-mainstream markets were fully explained  including the 
relative risk to the portfolio and its view as to how that would be mitigated. Ive seen 
insufficient evidence that this was done  and given the differing recollections in relation to 
the meeting that was had in January 2019, Im not persuaded the notes of that meeting 
evidence a conversation of this nature. 
And whilst not determinative, I consider Mrs Rs and the late Mr Rs behaviour after this 
meeting to be evidence that matters hadnt been fully explained to them  because by 
August 2019 they had already decided to move their portfolios away from ESPL. In my view 
this is yet further evidence that the level of risk and the types of investments that ESPL 
bought on behalf of Mrs R and the late Mr R were not in line with what they were expecting 
or wanted. 
So for these reasons, and those I gave in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that 
the portfolios, whether looked at individually or together, were unsuitable for Mrs R and the 
late Mr R. And therefore, I consider ESPL must do something to put things right. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs R as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I think Mr and Mrs R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr and Mrs R's circumstances and objectives when they invested.
ESPL has asked that I reconsider the award by changing the end date  
in particular that the calculation shouldnt run until the portfolios were transferred but 
earlier, in July 2019, when it said it offered Mrs R and the late Mr R the option of de-
risking their portfolio. And it has also said that it's unfair that it is also penalised for the time it has taken for 
the service to have resolved the complaint. 
In relation to the first point, Im not persuaded that the notes of the telephone conversation 
demonstrate that Mrs R and the late Mr R were told about the nature of their portfolios and 
that they carried more risk than they had been willing to take. 
I say this bearing in mind that ESPL clearly dont (and didnt) agree that this is the case. So 
without being aware that their portfolios werent suitable, and without being told about the 
actual risk of capital loss that their portfolios were exposed to, I dont agree that being 
offered an alternative is the same as ESPL offering to rebalance their portfolios to make 
them suitable  and in my view, thats what ESPL ought to have offered Mrs R and the late 
Mr R. 
Instead, the notes from the conversation in July 2019 say:
loss at that point 14%. Charges to date at 6%. Reiterated equity focused. Again suggested 
de-risking.they realised they were mistaken. Explained defensive and cautious portfolios. 
Offered free switch. Wanted to stay as they were. Offered fixed fee option.
Im not persuaded this is sufficient  as Ive said in my provisional decision and in this final 
decision, Mrs R and the late Mr R were looking for equity investments and so likely would 
not have been attracted to portfolios without an equity element. What they hadnt 
appreciated was the types of equities and markets, including international markets, theyd be 
exposed to. 
In my view, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to conclude that on the basis of this telephone 
conversation, Mrs R and the late Mr R had now understood and accepted the precise nature 
of the portfolios ESPL had built for them. This means that in my view, the calculation should 
run until the portfolios were transferred to a different adviser. 
In terms of the length of time the service has taken to issue its determination on the matter, 
whilst I acknowledge the comments ESPL has made, the matter would never have come to 
this service if it had been properly resolved at the outset, as it shouldve been. 
It therefore wouldnt be fair to exclude this period from the calculation. 
What should ESPL do?
To compensate the estate of Mrs R and the late Mr R fairly, ESPL must:
Compare the performance of the late Mr Rs and Mrs R's portfolios with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the portfolios. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each portfolio. ESPL should also 
pay interest as set out below.
Pay the estate of Mrs R and the late Mr R £250 each for the trouble and upset which 
this unsuitable advice caused them - particularly when they realised the risk to their 
money was far higher than they'd been led to believe.Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end date) additional 
interest
Mr R's 
portfoliotransferredFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Mrs R's 
portfoliotransferredFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. J. Edward Sellars & Partners Limited must 
pay the compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R have accepted this decision. 
It must also provide to Mrs R and the estate of Mr R a detailed breakdown of the above 
calculation at the same time.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman