DRN-4123479
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the way WDP Insurance Limited responded to her claim after she 
accidentally damaged her mobile phone.
What happened
Mrs E had mobile phone insurance underwritten by WDP. She claimed under the policy after 
her phone was damaged. WDP asked Mrs E to pay the excess and send the phone for 
repair. Because Mrs E didnt send the phone, WDP then charged her a non-return fee.
Mrs E complained to WDP that it hadnt made her aware of the policy excess or non-return 
fee. She needed to wipe her personal data from the phone, which she didnt know how to do, 
so she didnt send her phone to WDP.
WDP looked into Mrs Es complaint. It told her the fees were clearly stated in the policy, so it 
didnt think Mrs E had been treated unfairly. 
Mrs E remained unhappy with its response. She said she was no longer using the damaged 
phone, but she was still making payment. Mrs E thought WDP should refund her premiums, 
so she brought her complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. He said WDPs response to Mrs E was 
consistent with the policy wording, so there was no reason for it to refund her premiums.
Mrs E didnt agree. Her comments were largely about the complaints process, but she made 
it clear that she still felt WDP had treated her unfairly.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Theres no dispute about the actual claim  the phone screen was accidentally damaged. 
The issue of complaint is about WDPs request for payment of fees. For me to uphold Mrs 
Es complaint, Id need to be persuaded that, on balance, WDP didnt handle the claim in line 
with the policy.
Looking at the evidence, WDP charged two fees. One is the excess which is payable 
immediately upon making a claim. The second is a fee charged for failing to return the phone 
to WDP for assessment as requested.
Mrs E said no one ever told her about the additional fees. Turning to the policy, it confirms 
that payment of the policy excess is required when registering a claim. The policy also 
confirms that if the mobile isnt sent to WDP, it will charge a non-return fee. Thats because 
WDP processes the replacement phone before receiving the damaged phone. In its 
response to Mrs Es complaint, WDP provided the relevant policy wording. Im satisfied that 
Mrs E was made aware that her policy had an excess and that shed be charged a fee for 
failing to return her phone. Therefore, I think WDP responded fairly to Mrs Es claim.
Mrs E wants WDP to refund her premiums in full because she has a device she isnt using, 
yet shes still paying. Ive looked at all the evidence, but I havent seen anything to indicate 
WDP acted unreasonably. It responded promptly to Mrs Es claim, though she chose not to 
follow the full process. WDP directed her to customer services for assistance with removing 
sensitive information from her phone so she could send it for repair or replacement. And the 
option was available to Mrs E to cancel the policy.
Overall, the evidence indicates that WDP handled Mrs Es claim in line with the policy terms 
and conditions, but it was unable to progress the claim because Mrs E didnt send her 
phone. I wont be asking WDP to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman