DRN-3403091
The complaint
Mrs A complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) acted 
irresponsibly when it gave her an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mrs A took out a single loan as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repayme
ntTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan status
25/04/2018 £3,800 36 
months£300.93 £10,833.48 Outstanding
Mrs A has brought her complaint to us through her representative, but to keep things 
simpler, Ill just refer to Mrs A.
After full investigation, our adjudicator ultimately didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. Mrs A 
disagreed with our adjudicators view so her complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Id like to reassure Mrs A that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Mrs As complaint. 
Everyday Loans asked Mrs A about her income and its own checks showed that her 
monthly income was around £2,289. Everyday Loans also carried out credit checks to gain 
an understanding of Mrs As credit history and her current credit commitments. These 
showed that Mrs A had a total unsecured loan balance outstanding of £1,145 and a 
revolving credit balance of £3,227. Everyday Loans was also able to look at some bank 
statements which Mrs A provided as part of the loan application process. 
When assessing affordability, Everyday Loans allowed for Mrs As housing costs of around 
£500 each month. It also relied on statistical information and factored into its calculations 
an amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in Mrs As position might 
reasonably expect to pay. As well as this, Everyday Loans included an extra buffer for any 
minor fluctuations in Mrs As income or expenses or in case she needed to meet an 
unplanned expense. 
Everyday Loans worked out that Mrs A needed to pay around £952 towards her existing 
credit commitments. After allowing for the fact that the loan was taken out for debt 
consolidation  in other words, Mrs A said she would use the loan to repay other debt using 
this loan - Everyday Loans worked out that her disposable income would be around £310 
after paying for her new loan with Everyday Loans.
I think the checks undertaken by Everyday Loans were reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances and that it was fair to conclude that the loan repayments looked like they 
shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mrs A based on the information it had gathered.
I think its fair to say that from a responsible lenders point of view, Mrs As total 
indebtedness wouldnt have seemed unreasonable or excessive for someone in Mrs As 
position. 
The bank statements Everyday Loans saw, which can give a useful insight into someones 
overall financial situation, mainly showed that Mrs A seemed to be managing her money 
reasonably well. I dont think they showed enough to suggest that Mrs A was facing serious 
problems managing her money. 
All in all, I wouldnt have expected the information Everyday Loans saw in its credit checks 
and on the bank statements Mrs A provided to have given Everyday Loans any particular 
cause for concern.
I've also taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan was intended for 
debt consolidation and Everyday Loans directly repaid some of Mrs As outstanding credit 
before paying the loan balance to her. 
I think in these circumstances Everyday Loans was reasonably entitled to take a view that 
this suggested Mrs A was borrowing specifically to help her manage her finances more 
responsibly. It looked like she ought to be able to afford to do that on the figures it worked 
out. 
As far as I can see, Everyday Loans affordability assessment suggested she would be better 
off each month by taking out this loan and using it to clear the other debts she mentioned to 
Everyday Loans. To sum up, I dont think there was enough in the information that Everyday Loans could see 
that I think wouldve made it realise that Mrs A couldnt afford to pay this loan in a 
sustainable way. I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before it agreed to 
provide the loan were proportionate and that it was entitled to rely on the information it 
acquired which showed that this loan looked sustainably affordable for Mrs A.
Im sorry that Mrs A finds herself in financial difficulty. I accept that Mrs As financial 
situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided or the other 
information Everyday Loans obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mrs A. It did sufficient checks in the particular 
circumstances of this loan application and made a fair lending decision based on the 
information it obtained.
So I havent identified any reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award of 
redress against Everyday Loans and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mrs A. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. If Mrs A is still in a 
position where she would like help to manage her finances, theres more information 
about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if 
she gives us a call.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint and I make no award against 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman