DRN-2177815
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way American International Group UK Limited (AIG) handled a 
claim on his personal accident insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M had a personal accident insurance policy underwritten by AIG. This policy would pay a 
benefit if Mr M sustained an injury as a result of an accident. In 2007 Mr M sustained a brain 
injury following an explosion whilst he was serving in the armed forces.
Mr M made a claim on his policy in June 2018. AIG accepted his claim for mild traumatic 
brain injury (TBI) and paid a benefit of £5,000 for cognitive deficit. 
Permanent disablement
Mr M would like AIG to cover him for permanent disablement regarding TBI. He
believes since he already received a benefit for cognitive impairment then he shouldnt need 
to evidence anything further. 
AIG do not dispute Mr M suffers from TBI. However, for a successful claim for permanent 
disablement, AIG needs to also be satisfied this disability prevented Mr M from ever working 
again, within two years. So, although it accepted Mr M suffered physical damage to his brain 
in the 2007 accident, AIG said it would be difficult for Mr M to meet the policy definition of 
permanently disabled because he continued to work in the military until 2019.
Based on the available evidence, AIG declined Mr Ms claim for permanent disablement. 
Hypopituitarism
Mr M also made a claim for hypopituitarism under the policy. This requires a diagnosis from 
an Endocrinologist so AIG arranged an appointment for Mr M to see one in May 2019. But 
the appointment was in a different city to where Mr M lives, and he wasnt able to attend 
alone. So the appointment didnt go ahead. 
AIG then found a local Endocrinologist based in Mr Ms city to proceed with the appointment. 
At Mr Ms request, AIG agreed Mr M could attend the meeting and personally provide the 
information the Endocrinologist requested, rather than Mr Ms medical records being shared 
by others.
Mr M remained unhappy with the testing options available with the new consultant, so AIG 
went back to their original Endocrinologist who referred them on to a colleague. This third 
consultant agreed that the tests recommended previously would not be useful. 
This issue remains outstanding and Mr is still awaiting further testing. 
Delays
Mr M is also unhappy about the delays to the claim. He made a claim on his policy on 4 June 
2018 and since then, hes waited a considerable amount of his claim for hypopituitarism to 
be considered.
AIG have offered a total of £400 compensation to Mr M to compensate for the delays he 
faced. 
Our involvement 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into everything that had 
happened. She didnt think AIG had acted unfairly in declining the claim based on the 
evidence available to them. 
But she felt AIG couldve handled the claim better by providing more effective updates to 
reassure Mr M. She also felt AIG had delayed the claim and this had caused Mr M distress 
and inconvenience. So she awarded £300 compensation payment in addition to the £400 he 
had already received. 
AIG agreed with the recommendations. But Mr M remained unhappy. He wanted AIG to 
agree to specific testing measures for hypopituitarism  including a face to face meeting with 
the Endocrinologist and an insulin test, rather than just a desktop review. And he wanted 
further guidance on what hed need for a successful claim for permanent disablement. 
AIG responded to say Mr M would need to obtain a letter from the Army confirming he was 
unable to work within two years of the 2007 accident. 
The complaint has now been referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to 
- handle claims promptly and fairly
- not reject a claim unreasonably
- provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress.
Ive taken account of these obligations when deciding if AIG has done something wrong. 
Permanent disablement
Mr M has asked AIG to cover him for permanent disablement. He believes since AIG has 
already accepted he suffered a brain injury in 2007 he doesnt feel its necessary to evidence 
anything further.
The policy terms and conditions state:
If you suffer bodily injury during the period of cover which, within two years solely and
independently of any other cause, results in death, permanent disablement, specified burns,
specified fractures or hospitalisation, we will pay the total sum insured.
Permanent total disablement is defined as:
 
the total inability to do paid work of any kind which will probably last for the rest of your life.Ive considered all the available medical evidence to decide if AIG acted fairly when it 
declined Mr Ms claim for permanent disablement. 
The consultant psychologist concluded Mr M suffered a cognitive impairment. However, it 
also reported Mr Ms mental health disturbances were also assessed to be a major 
contributing factor in his current functioning and cognitive problems. While there are 
potentially some cognitive difficulties resulting from the blast injury itself, there appeared to 
be substantial psychological overlay exacerbating this. The terms of the policy state the 
injury must be the sole cause of the permanent disablement, so this highlights the difficulties 
AIG has in trying to assess something that happened so long ago. 
The MRI scan on 6 February 2018 didnt highlight anything abnormal. The report concluded 
Mr Ms brain was within normal limits. No focal lesion seen. No intracranial haemorrhage. 
No cause for symptoms identified. 
Based on the information I have, I cant say AIG has unfairly handled Mr Ms claim for
permanent disablement for brain injury because there wasnt enough evidence to support 
this. I appreciate Mr Ms comments about AIG already accepting he had a brain injury by 
paying out on the previous benefit. But the term for permanent disability requires Mr M to 
specifically show he suffered a brain injury and that within two years of the accident, it had 
left Mr M permanently disabled. 
So, even if the evidence did show Mr M suffered a brain injury in 2007-2009, under the terms 
of the policy, AIG needs to also be satisfied that, within 2 years, his disability prevented him 
from ever working again. And the evidence available at this stage doesnt show that. 
It appears AIG have told Mr M that although he continued working in the Army, it may still be 
willing to consider his claim for permanent disablement on the basis that he can evidence he 
suffered a brain injury within two years of the accident. 
Mr M believes an OPM MEG scan would provide the required results. So he spoke to AIG 
about this procedure during a call. Mr M has said he felt pressured by AIG to have the OPM 
MEG scan. But Ive listened to the call recording on this matter and I can see this wasnt 
something that was arranged or organised by AIG. Mr M found it himself and wanted to be 
picked to participate as he felt the results would support his claim. AIG agreed to consider 
the results. So I dont think AIG has acted unfairly. 
Hypopituitarism 
In relation to the tests for hypopituitarism, AIG has enquired about the further testing 
requested by Mr M such as the MRI scan and insulin stress test, but they have been advised 
by the third Endocrinologist that in order to make a more accurate assessment of Mr Ms 
hypopituitarism, its the original lab results that are required and imperative to the 
assessment, as it would help to decipher his overall treatment and current situation. He also 
advised there was no point in conducting further tests again on Mr M, as they will not reveal 
what was happening at that particular time back in 2007-2009. 
It is not for us to inform a business how their medical experts should conduct their 
investigations. And this seems like a reasonable explanation from a medical expert in this 
field. I appreciate Mr Ms comments about this opinion contradicting the first 
Endocrinologists plan for testing. But AIG isnt responsible for the failure of the previous 
meeting to go ahead. And Im satisfied they are doing what they can to accommodate Mr Ms 
needs and have him reviewed by the specialist to enable them to assess his claim for 
hypopituitarism.Once the Endocrinologist has reported its opinion and AIG have had the chance to assess 
the claim, Mr M has been advised he can come back to us if he remains unhappy and this 
will be dealt with as a separate complaint. 
Data protection
Mr M also raised a complaint alleging a breach of his personal data as he wasnt aware a 
third consultant had been approached. AIG responded explaining it didnt require consent to 
share records with an independent medical expert who is helping assess a claim. And I 
agree with this. AIG referred Mr M to the independent commissioner office if he wanted to 
pursue his breach allegation.  
Delays 
In regard to the delays Mr Ms claim has faced due to AIG actions, Ive considered the 
distress and frustration suffered by Mr M. And I agree with the investigator that it is fair and 
reasonable for AIG to pay an additional £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr M. 
 
Putting things right
 American International Group UK Limited should put things right by paying Mr M an 
additional £300 compensation for the lack of updates and delays which resulted in additional 
stress. 
This amounts to £700 compensation in total. 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. I require American International Group UK Limited to pay Mr M £300 
for the trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman