DRN-3656490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about their property insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc in respect 
of a claim they made to it for a water leak from their dishwasher.
What happened
There was a leak from the dishwasher in Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen of their home in 2012. A 
dispute arose which prevented the claim from progressing for three years. Repair work 
began in 2016, but Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the results of that work. 
In October 2017 AXA issued a final response to Mr and Mrs B dealing with their concerns 
about the work. It said it would complete work as set out in the letter, or Mr and Mrs B could 
have a cash settlement. It offered £250 compensation for delays and the distress caused to 
that date. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy and still had concerns about the snagging and work. 
So AXA reviewed its position.
In April 2018 AXA wrote another final response letter to Mr and Mrs B. It noted they still had 
concerns about the work and, to resolve that, offered to appoint a surveyor to visit the 
property and determine what was needed. It offered a further £400 compensation for 
additional upset caused to Mr and Mrs B by the claims continued delay.
The surveyor attended in July 2019. He commented on 17 issues. Of those, there were only 
four where he didnt make a recommendation for AXA to do something. AXA asked its loss 
adjuster to arrange for the contractor to attend and resolve the issues identified by the 
surveyor. An appointment to scope the work necessary to fulfil one of the recommendations 
was needed. That took place in December 2020. But following that meeting the contractors 
said they werent prepared to continue with the job. AXA noted it had no other contractors to 
offer. So it said it would settle with Mr and Mrs B in cash for most of the work recommended 
by the surveyor. 
In a final response in March 2021 AXA said that total would be £2,528, less VAT. It said it 
would also pay Mr and Mrs B £750 as compensation for additional upset caused by further 
delays since its final response in April 2018. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy. They felt that sum 
couldnt be enough to fix all that was wrong with their home. They didnt know what the sum 
was exactly meant to cover and they werent well enough to manage the work either. So 
they complained to us. 
Our Investigator asked both parties for lists showing what they felt was wrong  so she knew 
if what Mr and Mrs B wanted AXA to do was what AXA had accepted it needed to do. AXA 
set out the items it felt made up the sum offered, which were taken from the list of 17 items 
referenced by the surveyor. Mr and Mrs B had a list of 21 items  19 plus a list of items that 
they said were meant to have been put back up on the wall by the contractor, and an issue 
of knocking pipes theyd been told had been caused by faulty taps. 
Our Investigator asked AXA if it was prepared to do or pay anything more. AXA said it felt 
many of the issues now raised by Mr and Mrs B hadnt been raised before. And much of 
their list, AXA said, likely hadnt stemmed from the work it had done. 
Our Investigator, having reviewed everything, didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She felt AXA only offering a cash settlement was fair. And that the work it had agreed to 
cover was reasonable  that other problems had likely been caused by wear and tear over 
time. But she noted AXA had agreed to consider estimates from Mr and Mrs B and pay more 
if the work it had agreed it was liable for would cost them more to complete than its 
settlement had allowed. She felt that was fair and reasonable. As was, in her view, the 
compensation it had paid. So she didnt recommend AXA do anything else.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy. They said they had tried to get estimates  but no trader was 
prepared to quote for repairing the kitchen. They said theyd been told it couldnt be repaired 
piecemeal  that a whole new kitchen was needed. They also remained particularly unhappy 
about the lighting in the kitchen  the contractor had taken the original lighting down and that 
couldnt be refitted due to a change in regulations, and they felt the replacement was inferior. 
They felt AXA should pay for the re-wiring needed so a light like their old one could be 
reinstated. Their complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I felt the complaint should be upheld  but not to the extent Mr and Mrs B felt it should be. 
I issued a provisional decision to explain my views to both parties. My provisional findings 
were:
Cash settlement
I know Mr and Mrs B say they arent able to manage the final reinstatement phase of their 
home. But I think AXAs offer to settle in cash rather than go back and do more work is 
reasonable. I see AXAs last contractor had health and safety concerns following their visit to 
the property in December 2020. In short theyve said that what they saw  the state of the 
kitchen and Mr Bs attire  made them feel it wasnt appropriate for them to be further 
involved. I can understand the contractor coming to that view. I think Mr and Mrs B will say 
that the kitchen was in the state it was because of AXAs poor work. But I dont think that is a 
fair assessment  not given what Ive explained below about the repair issues in question. 
I think AXA has tried to resolve this claim  although I explain later that during April 2018 to 
March 2021, I dont think it always did a very good job of doing so. But I think that the 
progression to a cash settlement was unavoidable. In short Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with   
AXA and its agents, and AXA was concerned about being responsible for any contractor 
attending the property. In the circumstances I think it would be unfair and unreasonable for 
me to make AXA complete the outstanding work. I think it settling for the work in cash  
provided that is a fair sum for all the work needed (see my findings below)  is fair and 
reasonable in this situation. 
VAT
AXAs March 2021 letter explains that the settlement amount on offer of £2,528 doesnt 
include VAT. The letter is not entirely clear in this respect as it also says its settlement 
amount is £2,528 less VAT  which would usually suggest the total is inclusive of VAT but 
VAT is to be deducted. However, the letter does say that AXA will pay VAT if Mr and Mrs B 
provide invoices for completed work. And the total it says it is paying to Mr and Mrs B at that 
time, which included £750 compensation for upset and £50 for it delaying the complaint 
response, is £3,328. So AXA paid Mr and Mrs B £2,528 (£2,528 plus £800), rather than that 
sum less VAT. So Im satisfied that, as yet, AXA hasnt paid VAT for the repair costs.
Not paying VAT until invoices are presented is something Id often find reasonable for an 
insurer to do. But in respect of this complaint, about a claim which has been this much 
prolonged, I think AXA should just settle the VAT cost up front. I know Mr and Mrs B are 
having trouble getting a contractor to take on the work and the work only needs doing, by and large, because AXA did it poorly in the first place. In the interests of resolving things for 
both parties, I think AXA should pay VAT upfront. So in terms of the cash settlement paid, 
AXA will have to pay an additional £505.60 being the VAT amount due against it settlement 
sum. And for any additional repairs costs I find it is liable for, any payment I direct it to make 
will be inclusive of VAT. 
Mr and Mrs Bs request for a replacement kitchen
I know Mr and Mrs B are having trouble getting a contractor to undertake the work. But that 
doesnt mean I can reasonably require AXA to pay for them to replace their whole kitchen. 
I know they think the kitchen including the cupboards are of poor quality (this is 1 and 2 on 
their list.1 also refers to the sink, Ive dealt with that separately below as the sink also 
features in AXAs list, 17). But, regarding the quality of the kitchen and the cupboards; the 
surveyor appointed to assess what poor work had occurred, and which they agreed to, didnt 
find that the kitchen installation as a whole, including the cupboards, was of poor quality. 
Rather he felt some items needed resolving and he felt they could be fixed individually. He 
didnt find that a replacement kitchen was needed. So I dont intend to make AXA pay for the 
kitchen to be replaced. But Ill look at all the other issues in question individually to determine 
if AXA has or hasnt provided a sufficient resolution.    
How I will reference the issues in question
There are two key lists of work; AXAs numbering 17 issues, and Mr and Mrs Bs which totals 
21. Whilst some of the issues correlate across the lists, their numbering often doesnt. In my 
findings below against each issue Ill allocate the number Mr and Mrs B gave it eg 5 and a 
number, placed in brackets, that AXA gave to the issues on its list eg (15). 
Many of Mr and Mrs Bs 21 items were covered in the list by the surveyor, but nine of them 
werent. Of those nine, five were agreed by AXA as needing further review and/or resolution 
in its October 2017 final response letter. Ill deal with those nine issues first. AXA may have 
concerns about my going back to its October 2017 letter. But as Mr and Mrs Bs point is that 
the reviews and/or work it promised to do in that 2017 letter havent been done in the years 
since, I can consider whether these items are something AXA needs to pick up again now. 
They dont appear in AXAs list of 17 items, but they are refenced by letters in the 2017 final 
response letter. So here Ill refer to the numbering Mr and Mrs B applied to them and, in 
brackets, the lettering applied in the October 2017 letter.
The items in question are: 8 (V), 15 (E), 16 (J), 17 (S), 21(G)
8(V)  Worktops delaminated since fitting. AXA said its contractor would review that. But 
I havent seen that ever happened. However, the surveyor appointed in 2019 was sent to 
finally establish the disputed poor workmanship issues. And the surveyor did not note that 
the worktops were delaminating, or that if they were this was down to poor work in fitting 
poor quality materials. So Im not persuaded AXA has to do anything more regarding the 
worktops.
15(E)  Cooker poorly fitted, gaps around edge. AXA said in 2017 it would agree action to 
resolve this issue. That hasnt been done. The surveyor didnt say it was needed. But, to be 
fair, AXA had said this issue needed resolving, so the surveyor didnt need to consider if it 
amounted to poor work. AXA was satisfied in 2017 that it needed resolving, but it hasnt 
been resolved. I think it should be paying Mr and Mrs B an amount to resolve this issue.
16(J)  Poor workmanship and materials used in redecoration. AXA said it would resolve 
this. But again that doesnt seem to have happened. As above, I think it should be paying 
Mr and Mrs B an amount to resolve this issue. AXA, I think, will likely say that the decoration at the property has likely suffered wear in the years since and it will be unable to know now 
what parts of its work were to a poor standard. It will also likely argue that it isnt responsible 
for fixing any wear and tear issues. However, and whilst I appreciate this has been a difficult 
claim for both parties, I think AXA still has a responsibility to fix problems it has accepted it 
caused. And if that means it has to be responsible for the extra costs of a bit more work now 
because no resolution occurred earlier, I think that is just a natural and reasonable 
consequence of this prolonged and difficult claim. And bearing in mind how long it has gone 
on for, I intend to propose a resolution which does not necessarily require AXA or 
Mr and Mrs B to undergo any further assessment. AXA will know what areas it decorated 
before and what that cost. I think it should pay that sum in settlement, plus 8% interest per 
year from the date the original repair costs were determined. The interest will allow for the 
fact that prices have increased since. And AXA will also have to tell Mr and Mrs B what area 
and work that sum (before applying interest) covered. If they get all that work re-done and it 
costs them more and they can evidence this to AXA, it will have to pay the difference 
between what the work cost it and what it has cost them. 
17(S)  Swelling of internal doors. AXA in 2017 acknowledged the door between the kitchen 
and utility had swollen. It said the contractor was going to make a payment to Mr and Mrs B 
for this. I havent seen that ever happened. If AXA can show me it did, I wont need to make 
it do anything more. If it cant, it will have to make a payment so Mr and Mrs B can replace 
this door. That will have to be the price of a similar door, plus fitting. Mr and Mrs B though 
say the door between the kitchen and dining room is similarly affected. However, whilst 
knowing in 2017 that AXA was only going to resolve the one door, they did not then 
complain to us about the other one. That said, AXA said in 2018 it would review all issues of 
poor work, which resulted in the surveyors 2019 assessment. And the surveyor didnt find 
this other door was suffering from damage caused by poor work. So Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably assume this relates to the claim or work AXA completed. Therefore, I dont 
intend to make it pay Mr and Mrs B to replace this second door.
21(G)  Knocking of water pipes. Mr and Mrs B have said a plumber told them this has been 
caused due to poor quality taps. AXA, in 2017 accepted that following its work, water pipes 
in the home were knocking. It said it would resolve this by fitting a shock arrester. As far as 
I know this wasnt done. AXA will have to pay Mr and Mrs B so this can be done now, parts 
and fitting. I know Mr and Mrs B want the taps replacing. But their word about what a 
plumber has told them doesnt persuade me the taps are causing the problem. I think AXA 
accepted that there was a problem and put forward a way to resolve that. Im satisfied it 
paying to implement that method is a fair and reasonable resolution in the circumstances.  
Issues noted by both the surveyor and Mr and Mrs B 
9 and 10, (2) and (1)  Larder unit and corner cupboard carousel. AXA has included a cost 
for repairing these items within its cash settlement offer. The sum for them is £827. That is to 
replace both units. Mr and Mrs B dont think the problems with these units can be resolved in 
isolation from the other cupboards as they are all out of alignment. But the surveyor clearly 
felt that was possible as he recommended their repair. And importantly he did not otherwise 
find that the kitchen units, apart from the drawers, had been poorly fitted such they were out 
of alignment. AXAs offer to cover the cost of replacing the items actually goes further than 
the remedy suggested by the surveyor. I think AXAs offer is fair and reasonable. So I dont 
intend to make it do or pay anything more.
4(3) and (10)  Kitchen and utility lighting. The contractors took down the lighting. 
Mr and Mrs B arent sure why, they dont think it was necessary given the damage which 
was the subject of the claim. And the lights werent reinstated following the work. Rather the 
contractor said those lights couldnt be re-fitted. They put standard bulbs in place. But these 
didnt give off the same amount of light the old fittings had. And Mr and Mrs B said they were more expensive to maintain. AXA has accepted the lights are not like Mr and Mrs B had 
before. Its settlement offer includes £440 (£220 each) for Mr and Mrs B to buy and fit 
replacement lights with similar light output to the lights they had before. The old lights cant 
be put back up due to an inadequacy in the wiring at Mr and Mrs Bs home. They think AXA 
should pay for re-wiring work to be done, particularly as there was no need, in their view, to 
take the original lights down in the first place.
4(3) and (10) continued. Im not sure why the contractor took the lights down. But what is 
important is to look at what remedy fairly and reasonably resolves this issue. Whether as 
part of a claim or poor work, I usually expect an insurer to put their policyholder as closely as 
reasonably possible into the position they were before. Here the wiring at Mr and Mrs Bs 
home hasnt changed. It is now like it was before. Only the lighting has. So AXA paying for 
lighting that has the same output as the original ones, in my view, achieves the need for 
Mr and Mrs B to be placed, as closely as reasonably possible, into the position they were 
before. And Im not persuaded that new lighting will likely cost Mr and Mrs B more. Im not 
minded to make AXA pay for re-wiring at Mr and Mrs Bs home.  
3(4)  Extractor fan. AXA has said it will pay £1,031 to take out the inferior fan its contractor 
put in and put one in like Mr and Mrs B had before. It has detailed that cost as follows: 
 
Electrician costs for coring new hole, fitting fuse spur, extending wiring and fitting a 6 inch 
extractor £380.00 
Making Good : Brick up old hole, repair plaster internally, repaint effected wall internally and 
touch up masonry painted wall externally £651.00.
I think that is fine as far as it goes. But it doesnt include the cost of purchasing a 
replacement fan. I know Mr and Mrs B did keep a lot of items that were stripped from their 
kitchen. Its possible they still have the fan. But the contractors, when taking it out, must 
have known it couldnt be re-fitted due to design changes. So I cant be sure it was removed 
in such a way it could be re-fitted. Or that with it having been sat not in use for all this time, it 
would work. I think AXA reasonably needs to add a cost for Mr and Mrs B to buy a 
replacement fan, like that they had before.
6(6)  Drawers not aligned. AXA, as part of its settlement figure, has said it allowed £30.00 
for the drawers to be aligned. The surveyor felt this should be addressed and didnt say that 
the kitchen was otherwise out of alignment or that aligning the drawers alone couldnt be 
done. Im not persuaded that a competent joiner or kitchen fitter couldnt resolve the 
alignment issues. And I think that work as part of a larger body or work isnt likely to attract a 
greater charge. It might do but AXA has agreed to consider estimates. At the minute Im not 
minded to make it pay anything more to Mr and Mrs B to resolve this issue.
7(7)  Window board delamination. The surveyor said this needed resolving. But AXA hasnt 
included a cost for it. Its loss adjuster, seeing the surveyors report, said this wasnt related 
to the claim and repairs. But I think AXA should include a cost for this  because it appointed 
the surveyor to determine the disputed repair issues and the surveyor said thew window 
board needed replacing. I intend to require AXA to make a payment in this respect. 
13(8)  Access holes for cables. AXA, as part of its settlement figure, has said it allowed 
£30.00 for access holes to be added to the worktops. I think that cost, when undertaken as 
part of a larger body or work, is likely reasonable. I dont think it will attract a greater charge. 
Whilst it might do AXA has agreed to consider estimates. At the minute Im not minded to 
make it pay anything more to Mr and Mrs B to resolve this issue.
11(9)  Broken hinges and closers. The surveyor found one broken hinge. AXA allowed 
£20.00 for replacing that within its settlement sum. Mr and Mrs B said there are multiple broken hinges and closers. This may disappoint them but as the surveyor only found one 
broken hinge, I cant reasonably require AXA to cover the cost of fixing other hinges and 
closers. It is possible that more of these items have broken since the surveyors visit. But, if 
so, that is around three years or more since repairs were done. Items like hinges and closers 
do suffer wear and tear and sometimes will need replacing after a few years and in the 
natural course of things. For me to make AXA repair them I would have to be satisfied they 
have most likely broken because they were poor quality or were poorly fitted. Given that the 
surveyor made no overall finding in that respect, the time that has passed since the 
surveyors report and that these parts are subject to wear and tear, I cant be satisfied 
theyve failed due to poor quality or fitting. They may, or may not, have done. So I cant 
reasonably require AXA to make further payment to Mr and Mrs B for broken hinges and 
closers.
12(11)  Rear door. The closing mechanism isnt working properly. Mr and Mrs B state the 
contractors did this by not taking care when using the door during their work. AXA wasnt 
persuaded that was the case. AXAs surveyor said he cant be sure if this problem has 
resulted from careless use by the contractors or general wear and tear. AXA I see has given 
Mr and Mr B the benefit of the doubt in this respect as it has allowed £40.00 within its 
settlement total so Mr and Mrs B can pay for adjusting the door to try and resolve the 
problem. Seeing as an expert, when physically examining the door, couldnt be certain as to 
the cause of the problem, I think AXA including any amount for resolving the issue is fair and 
reasonable. I dont intend to make it pay anything more.    
5(12)  Hall and stair carpet. Mr and Mrs B said this was damaged by the contractors not 
taking proper care of their property. AXA said it would look at that and if it felt it had been 
damaged in that way, and beyond repair, it would replace it. The surveyor considered the 
carpet. He noted it had been cleaned. He felt its condition was due to general wear and tear. 
Ive seen nothing that makes me think his view is wrong. 
14(13) and (15)  Tile edging and spare tiles. The edging was poorly finished. AXA has 
allowed £75 for remedying the finish within its settlement figure. The contractors promised a 
spare box of tiles would be left. AXA said the contractor can supply spare tiles. I think that 
cost, when undertaken as part of a larger body or work, is likely reasonable. I dont think it 
will attract a greater charge. Whilst it might do AXA has agreed to consider estimates. I think 
receiving spare tiles reasonably resolves the issue of the previously unfulfilled promise to 
supply them. I think those offers reasonably resolve these issues. At the minute Im not 
minded to make AXA pay or do anything more to resolve this issue. But I dont think the 
spare tiles have been provided yet. So, for completeness, Im going to direct AXA to do so.
20(16)  Wall mounted items need re-fitting. Mr and Mrs B said certain things, including 
blinds, were taken down for works to be done and not replaced. Recently AXA has said it 
doesnt think a contractor would agree to put things like that up. But I disagree  the 
contractor had to put back what they had taken down. And I think, given the items in 
question, they were likely in place beforehand. Furthermore, in 2017, AXA agreed that 
Ancillary items, blinds etc would be reinstated. So I will be requiring AXA to include a cost 
for reinstating the items listed by Mr and Mrs B. They are:
Blinds.
Co2 detector.
Smoke detector.
Key safe storage box.
Key hook holder.
Clock.
Wooden egg storage holder.
Utensil rack.Wooden cup rack. 
1(17)  Sink. Mr and Mrs B said this is poor quality. The surveyor didnt think that was the 
case. He said he couldnt say if it was of a different quality to the sink that was there before, 
but he could find no fault with the sink as currently installed. AXA said Mrs B chose the sink. 
Im not persuaded the sink is most likely of lesser quality than the sink which was there 
before. And if I was shown evidence in this respect, Id have to bear in mind that 
Mr and Mrs B chose it. Id also have to bear in mind that even if it is different, I havent seen 
any perceivable loss to Mr and Mrs B. Just because it is different, even if it is of lesser 
quality, for me to make AXA change it, that difference would have to result in a negative 
affect for Mr and Mrs B. I havent seen that is the case. 
Items only found within Mr and Mrs Bs list of 21 issues 
1 and 2  I include this reference here for completeness only. Ive already given my views on 
these issues above. 
18  Faulty electrical circuit for cooker. Mr and Mrs B said it keeps tripping the fuse so they 
cant use it. AXA made no reference to this issue in its 2017 letter. And the surveyor in 2019, 
reviewing all issues of poor work, didnt note any fault with how the cooker functioned. 
Because no fault has been noted previously, theres nothing which shows this has resulted 
from the work AXA completed in 2016. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B believe that is the case. 
And they might be right. But AXA says it is likely unrelated to its work. Its possible it might 
be right. As Ive said, to make an award, I have to be satisfied that the problem most likely 
resulted from AXAs failure. I cant be satisfied here that is the case. I dont intend to make 
AXA pay for fixing this issue.
19  Stopcock. Mr and Mrs B said this has been fitted incorrectly. But the surveyor did not 
identify any issue with the installation of the stopcock when he assessed what poor work had 
been completed at the property. I dont intend to make AXA pay for adjusting or reinstating 
the stopcock.
Claim handling, including delay 
I think it is fair to say that this claim has been very prolonged. But I cant look at how AXA 
handled the whole claim. Thats because the rules which govern the Financial Ombudsman 
only allow me to look at complaints which are made within six months of a final response 
letter being issued which deals with that complaint aspect. AXAs two most recent final 
responses, which dealt with its claim handling and delay, were issued in early April 2018 and 
late March 2021. Mr and Mrs B only complained to us after receiving the March 2021 letter. 
That was more than six months on from the April 2018 letter. So I cant review what 
happened before the April 2018 letter. I can only look at what happened between April 2018 
and March 2021.
In short I think AXA failed Mr and Mrs B during this time. 
I think its loss adjuster failed to note when AXA told it the claim could resume after a period 
during which Mr B had been poorly. Mrs B told AXA on 1 July 2018 that she wished to 
proceed with the claim (after it had been on hold due to Mr Bs health). Whilst AXA told its 
loss adjuster, this sems to have been overlooked during the following weeks and the claim 
did not progress. AXA has said Mrs B contacted it in January 2019. I havent seen that 
email. AXAs reference to it seems to suggest that, at that time. Mrs B was saying shed 
found a contractor to do work. But that wasnt how AXA had left things with Mrs B. The claim 
was meant to be progressing by a surveyor being appointed. That didnt begin to be 
arranged until May 2019. I think AXA could and should have done more to progress it. I think that if AXA had managed this properly, a surveyor could have assessed the work by the end 
of 2018. It was only assessed at the end of July 2019. So, in my view, AXA delayed the 
claims progress by around seven months.
In more general terms, from what Ive seen the claim was often delayed by internal disputes 
between it and its loss adjuster. More specifically, the loss adjuster also chose to review the 
surveyors findings, rather than just instructing the work to be done as AXA had directed. 
Further, following receipt of the surveyors report in August 2019, AXA noted that by early 
September 2019 its loss adjuster hadnt acted to move on with the repairs. It was then 
mid-September when the loss adjuster told AXA it would ask the contractor to re-attend. 
That was a further delay of around six weeks.
I havent seen that much activity then occurred between mid-September 2019 and 
June 2020. But the loss adjuster told AXA in June 2020 that the contactor hadnt been able 
to re-attend due to Mr and Mrs Bs availability. It can sometimes be difficult to get work 
booked in at a convenient time for both parties. But I havent seen that over a period of 
around nine months the contractor made reasonable attempts to visit Mr and Mrs Bs home. 
And the loss adjuster seems to have done nothing to manage the situation during that time. 
Further, Mr and Mrs B told AXA in August 2020 that they were unhappy things had not 
progressed. They referred to the 2020 pandemic likely having become an issue. But Im not 
persuaded that the claim, at the time of the pandemic, would still have been at the stage of 
the contractor trying to arrange work if the delays and poor claim management Ive found 
here had been avoided. So I think the claim not progressing further until early June 2020 
was due to AXAs failings  thats around another nine months.
I think that things progressed, or that AXA attempted to progress them at any rate, 
reasonably well over the next couple of months. But I see that during September 2020 to 
mid-November 2020, things stalled again due to internal issues between AXA and its loss 
adjuster. That amounted to a further delay of roughly another six weeks.
A visit occurred in mid-December 2020. And this was the point at which AXA decided it had 
to cash settle the claim. But the adjuster didnt ask the contractor to provide costs for the 
outstanding work until around mid-February 2021. That was a delay of roughly two months. 
The period April 2018  March 2021 inclusive is 35 months. At the start of that period 
Mr and Mr B had been living with the on-going claim for five years, and the poor work as well 
during the last two years. So they started this period already very frustrated, unhappy and 
tired. The effect on them of any further delay and poor handling in the years that followed 
has to be considered in light of that heightened state of stress which they were already in. 
And Ive set out above how I think AXA failed them and what delays that caused. Out of the 
(roughly) 35 month period between final responses, I think AXA delayed things for a total of 
around 21 months. That is totally unreasonable. I dont doubt that having the resolution of 
the claim delayed for that amount of time, during that period, was gruelling, stressful and 
depressing for Mr and Mrs B. 
I explained that I dont think the issues with the repairs are as bad as Mr and Mrs B feel they 
are. But I accept that they couldnt use some of the storage in their kitchen during this time 
and the room hasnt been well lit. The installed extractor fan also didnt work as well as the 
one in place previously. So I think there were issues with the work that affected the way they 
used and perceived their kitchen during this time. I think they were caused some upset and 
inconvenience as a result.
AXA has paid £750 for the upset it feels its poor handling of the claim between April 2018 
and March 2021 has caused Mr and Mrs B. In the circumstances and in light of the fact I think that the majority of that period was the subject of delays by AXA, I dont think that is 
fair and reasonable compensation. I think fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances here, for the period stated, totals £2,000. AXA has paid £750 already. So 
I intend to make it now pay £1,250 (£2,000 less the £750 already paid).
AXA said it has been waiting for costs to be presented by Mr and Mrs B, and it cant pay 
VAT without seeing a VAT invoice. It said it felt it had offered a fair sum in compensation, not 
least as it has been trying to resolve matters.
Mr and Mrs B provided comments against most paragraphs of my provisional decision. Ive 
summarised their points of contention below:
Work began and completed in 2015.
During the visit in December 2020 Mr B was in a normal state of dress and the attendees 
did not enter the house. They robustly dispute anything was wrong  with either Mr Bs 
attire or in regards health and safety  and want to see evidence to support the 
allegation. They simply havent been able to clean in the disrupted kitchen. 
If AXA couldnt find a contractor to do the work for the sums in question  how can they. 
Leaving them to repair things puts them in an impossible situation.
They suspect insufficient costs for the original work is why it was completed so badly.
They hadnt just demanded a new kitchen because they fancied one  theyd been 
repeatedly told that the framework of the kitchen was causing the problems. And as its 
accepted that AXA did poor work it stands to reason that taking things back to a newly 
installed kitchen is necessary. 
The replacement cupboards were never like what they had before. And the surveyor was 
not aware of that.
AXA has previously noted that the window-sill and in front of the sink were delaminating. 
But Ive not mentioned that. 
Regarding the worktops delaminating, they want to know why AXA doesnt have to do 
anything when Ive noted the problem has been caused by poor work. And the worktops 
have been affected by repeated attempts at repairing the carousel. 
They had reported the second door a long time ago. And it had swollen due to the 
inferior fan, rather than poor work, so the surveyor wouldnt have been looking for that. 
I hadnt mentioned a visit from the kitchen manufacturer who had found the carousel and 
larder unit were incorrectly fitted and couldnt be repaired. And the fact they cant be 
repaired merely goes to show that previous attempted repairs have caused so much 
damage to the worktop and units the items cannot be repaired satisfactorily.
The bulbs in place now as well as the wiring are unsafe and not acceptable. The 
suggested replacement lights are not as bright as what they had before  there isnt 
anything available that is, and anything fitted will be more expensive. The best option is 
to have new earth wiring installed. Without this they will be disadvantaged compared to 
how they were before. 
They cant find anyone to re-align the drawers.
There are two window boards delaminating, not just one. 
The surveyor and all others visiting the property have been shown broken closers and 
more than one broken hinge. These are not new issues. But further repeated attempts at 
repair have made things worse.
Regarding the back door Mr and Mrs B reported the problems with it while work was still 
ongoing. Along with other issues that showed, they felt, the contractors had a general 
lack of respect for the property. They noted that the surveyor stating that the problem 
couldnt be attributed to AXAs contractors, had been appointed by AXA and wasnt 
independent. 
The contractor had admitted not sealing off the work area properly from the undamaged 
parts of their home That is why they feel AXA must replace the carpet. They believe that regarding the carpet, the non-independent surveyor was always bound to find in AXAs 
favour.  
Mr and Mrs B said that for the tile edging to be rectified  all the kitchen tiles would need 
to come off. 
In respect of the sink, Mr and Mrs B said the surveyor couldnt say it was different 
because he hadnt seen the original. And they didnt really choose the inferior sink, rather 
they were forced to accept it. Their old one was of much thicker steel and never made 
noise when hit by hot water as this one does, because this inferior one is more prone to 
expansion. 
The cooker circuit was replaced by AXA and should not have developed a fault in the 
few years since installation. 
They dont believe the surveyor looked at the stopcock. And they only became aware 
later there was an issue with it. 
Mr and Mrs B said they didnt complain to us between 2018 and March 2021 because 
AXA had assured them it would deal with everything. Theyd endured at least six visits to 
their home before 2018 and AXA should have done more, and acted differently at that 
time, which would have prevented what followed.
They maintain that the repairs are as bad as they think, rather than to the less severe 
level I have determined. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr and Mrs Bs clarification that it was 2015 that work was done.
  
It may assist Mr and Mrs B if I explain that my background  in this and the provisional 
decision I issued previously  sets out the situation as led to a decision by this service 
needing to be made. The background now contains a copy of my provisional findings. But, 
initially, it had no findings from me in it. Its purpose is to set out what had happened and 
what the respective parties views were. This them enables me to address the relevant 
positions in my findings.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs B think there was nothing untoward at the property when the 
contractor attended in December 2020. But the contractor who had previously been trying to 
resolve things then changed its mind. And I think that relations between the parties were 
then so frayed it would not be fair or reasonable to either one of them to put them into a 
position where they have to continue to work together for Mr and Mrs B to get any closer to 
resolving the issues at their home. So I do think that, in the circumstances here, AXA settling 
in cash is a fair and reasoble way forwards.
Ive seen nothing that makes me think the sums AXA is offering are unfair and 
unreasonable, that insufficient funds caused poor work in the first place or that the sums for 
re-work played any role in AXA not completing that further work. I know Mr and Mrs B are 
having difficulty finding someone to reinstate their kitchen. And Ive considered again their 
concerns about the damage and work which needs to be done. But I am satisfied that 
reinstating the kitchen, in respect of the repairs and for the cost Ive set out is not an 
impossible proposition.  
I know AXA had been asking for estimates. And I referenced exactly that in my provisional 
findings, sometimes not making awards because I was satisfied AXAs offer to consider 
estimates was reasonable. But AXA offering to consider estimates was never an answer for 
the issue of the items it had not accepted liability for. Regarding the items Ive now found it needs to settle for, it is more than capable of determining what a likely repair cost will be. 
Taking a step like that is the only way that this prolonged claim and complaint can fairly and 
reasonably be drawn to a close. 
And for that reason I am also requiring AXA to pay amounts to cover the VAT sums that 
would likely be charged for the repairs in question. There is nothing stopping AXA paying an 
amount equivalent to VAT. As I explained provisionally, I think it is fair and reasoble for me 
to require AXA to do that in this instance. I remain of that view. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have been told by a number of contractors that there are 
issues with the framework and worktops in their kitchen, such that the kitchen must be 
replaced. But those contractors are looking for work and are not as qualified to determine the 
cause of problems in the kitchen as the surveyor was. And who didnt find any overall issues 
with the quality of fitting of the kitchen. I understand they think the quality of the kitchen is not 
as it was before  and the surveyor didnt know what they had before. But they had an 
opportunity to explain all their issues to the surveyor and share any evidence they felt 
relevant. The surveyor didnt find the kitchen was of poor quality. I remain of the view that it 
would not be fair or reasonable for me to make AXA replace their kitchen.
I cant possibly mention every visit which occurred and every finding made by any of the 
attendees during the course of this claim. As I explained in my provisional findings, I took the 
two lists of issues from both parties and worked through them to explain which items I felt 
AXA still has some liability for resolving.
I did not say the worktop had delaminated due to poor fitting  I said the surveyor had been 
appointed to identify all issues of poor work  and he had not said there was any issue with 
the worktops. I appreciate they feel it is damaged due to poor fitting and/or attempts to repair 
other issues of poor fitting. But the surveyor did not identify an issue with the worktop. So 
I cant reasonably make AXA replace it.
Regarding the second door, if it was the fan that caused this problem, fitting an incorrect fan 
is poor work. But doors most commonly swell following a water leak due to improper drying. 
So damage like this is something a surveyor considering reports of poor work would, I think, 
likely spot and comment on. Even if only to discount it as having been caused by something 
other than poor work. So Im not persuaded that the surveyor most likely saw this issue and 
simply disregarded it without comment. I remain of the view that AXA isnt reasonably liable 
for paying to replace the second door.
I note Mr and Mrs Bs comments about the visit from the manufacturers. But AXAs offer for 
the carousel and larder unit reflected the cost for these two items to be replaced. As I said 
provisionally, I think that is fair and reasonable.
I know Mr and Mrs B believe that completing a small bit of re-wiring to the electrical system 
in their kitchen is the best way to resolve the issue they have with the lighting. But, having 
considered what both parties have said about this, and bearing in mind that, as Ive 
explained, AXA doesnt have to put them back into exactly the same position as before  just 
as closely as reasonably possible, Im satisfied that AXAs settlement offer is fair and 
reasonable.  
I know Mr and Mrs B say the contractors they have spoken to cant repair the kitchen 
drawers. But Im not persuaded that means the surveyors view, that they can be repaired, is 
most likely wrong. Im not going to require AXA to do more regarding the drawers. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B saying two boards are affected  but the surveyor only found one. 
I cant reasonably make AXA pay for resolving both.I also appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs report regarding the closers and hinges. But the surveyor 
only found one broken hinge. I cant reasonably require AXA to cover the cost of 
repairing/replacing more than that.
Regarding the back door, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B had concerns from early on, both 
about the door and how their home was being treated. But that doesnt mean the problem 
they now have with the door was caused by or is related to all of that. The surveyor said he 
couldnt say that was the case. I accept he was not independent of AXA. But I dont think 
that means I shouldnt give weight to what he found regarding the back door. After all he did 
find other issues in the kitchen which he attributed to poor work of AXA. Im not going to 
make AXA pay more for resolving the issue with the door.
My view on the carpet and the surveyors findings in that respect is the same as that stated 
above in respect of the door. But Id add that just because the contractor failed to seal the 
home doesnt mean the carpet necessarily suffered damage as a result. The surveyor didnt 
think the condition of the carpet had been caused by the contractorsnot taking care during 
the works. Im not going to make AXA pay for this.
I havent seen anything that makes me think the kitchen needs to be re-tiled in order for 
issues with the edging to be resolved. Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to make AXA do more regarding the tile edging.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs B feel they were forced to accept the sink. And I accept that they feel it 
is inferior. But the only impact of that they are reporting is that the sink is more prone to 
expansion thereby making noises. Im not persuaded  even if I accept AXA unreasonably 
forced a different sink on them, which reacts slightly differently to the one they had before  
that means the item is generally inferior.  
I understand why Mr and Mrs B might think AXA should be responsible for the reported 
faulty cooker circuit. But I cant assume that an item is now faulty because of work AXA did 
previously.
I cant assume the surveyor didnt look at the stopcock  he was sent to assess issues of 
poor work and that work included the water supply having been switched off. I appreciate it 
was after the surveyors visit that Mr and Mrs B were told there was a problem with the 
stopcock  but Im not persuaded the surveyor missed this, such that I can take their word 
for it that AXAs contractor installed it incorrectly.
 
I note Mr and Mrs B believe AXA prevented them from complaining to us. But they had a 
final response dated April 2018 which said they had six-months from the date of that letter to 
complain. It was always up to them whether or not to do so. But I have considered what 
happened in the years since the 2018 letter. And Ive found that, during that time, AXA did 
fail them. 
Ive noted the summary AXA has given of how it thinks things progressed during April 2018 
to March 2021. And that it doesnt feel it was responsible for the delays I set out in my 
provisional findings. But my provisional findings were made having carefully considered all of 
AXAs submission and everything Mr and Mrs B had told us. AXAs summary or point of 
view, given by someone in reply to what I have said, doesnt persuade me my assessment of 
things was unfair or unreasonable. Similarly, I note that Mr and Mrs B disagree with the level 
of poor work Ive found affected them. But their responses havent persuaded me to change 
my view in this respect. Which all means that I still think that AXA caused delays as set out 
in my provisional findings and that a total of £2,000 compensation (with £750 of that having already been paid) is fairly and reasonably due to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs B were caused. 
Having reconsidered everything in light of the parties responses to my provisional findings, 
my views on the complaint and its fair and reasonable outcome have not changed. My 
provisional findings, along with my further comments here, are now the findings of this, my 
final decision. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Mr and Mrs B:
£505.60 as VAT due on the settlement sum of £2,528.
An amount, inclusive of VAT to rectify the gapping around the cooker  reference 15(E).
A sum which reflects what AXA paid to redecorate during the original claim works. It will 
then have to apply interest* to that figure from the date the costs for redecorating were 
determined, until settlement is made to Mr and Mrs B. If the sum AXA was charged did 
not include VAT, it will have to calculate what VAT is due for the total sum owed to 
Mr and Mrs B, and pay them the total sum. Reference 16(J).
An amount, including fitting and VAT, to replace the kitchen/utility door  17(S).
An amount including VAT to buy and fit a shock arrester  21(G).  
An amount, including VAT, so a new extractor fan can be purchased  3(4).
A sum, including VAT, for the window board to be replaced  7(7).
A sum, including VAT, for the wall fittings to be reinstated, as per 20(16) above.
£1,250 compensation for distress and inconvenience, where the total due is £2,000, 
£750 of which has already been paid.
I also require AXA to:
Give Mr and Mrs B details of what area and work its redecoration cost covers  16(J).
Provide a box of spare tiles  14(13)&(15).
If Mr and Mrs B present it with estimates for the work it has agreed to do and/or which 
Ive found it is liable for the cost of, consider those estimates. And pay any additional 
cost incurred by Mr and Mrs B for the agreed/specified work, from the costs agreed or 
which Ive found are due for that work.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out in 
Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman