DRN-3880292
The complaint
Mr A and Ms S complain about the way ReAssure Life Limited has dealt with the 
reinstatement and continuation of cover under a protection policy. They say there have been 
delays in providing cover that have caused worry and emotional stress. 
What happened
In January 2004, Mr A and Ms S took out a joint critical illness (CIC) policy with life cover. 
The initial sum assured was £1650,000 on a rolling 10-year term. The policy included a 
reinstatement option for the lives covered under the policy. This meant it was possible to 
request reinstatement of the cover after a successful claim was made. 
In January 2022, Mr A made a successful CIC claim on the policy. Following this in March 
2022, an application was made to take up the reinstatement option as they wanted cover to 
continue. ReAssure responded to say it couldnt reinstate the cover for Mr A using the Cover 
Reinstatement Option at this time. It explained the terms and conditions of this policy note 
that this option cannot be effected until at least one year has passed since the admittance of 
a claim. It said it would be willing to consider an application to reinstate on or after 17 
January 2023. 
ReAssure agreed to look into a request to provide continuation cover for Ms S. At the end of 
March 2023, it asked her to provide further medical information for this application. Ms S 
responded within a few days in early April 2022. After chasing a response from ReAssure, 
Mr A and Ms S became frustrated with how long the application process was taking and 
raised a complaint in June 2022. They were unhappy with delays and handling of the 
application. They said they were worried about the impact of having no cover in place and 
this was causing stress. 
ReAssure responded to the complaint. It admitted there had been delays in completing the 
application and offered Mr A and Ms S £250 in compensation to recognise the impact of its 
handling of the application. Mr A and Ms S werent satisfied with this response, so referred 
the complaint to this service.  
In July 2022, ReAssure confirmed the original policy couldnt be reinstated at this time but 
instead offered an alternative policy. It offered a top-up policy called a Lifelong Protection 
Plan (Whole of Life Policy). It said the new policy would be subject to medical unwriting and 
asked for a declaration of health to be completed to proceed.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint.  He found there had been delays caused 
by ReAssure. He found that ReAssure were correct that Mr A couldnt reinstate his cover 
until a year had passed since his claim. After investigating, he established that ReAssure 
had now agreed to start the process of establishing a plan for Ms S to allow her to continue 
to have cover. Initially he said the compensation offered of £250 was fair, but he later 
decided this should be increased to £500 to recognise the full impact of the way things had 
been handled by ReAssure. 
ReAssure agreed to pay the additional compensation. It said that it was in the process of 
setting up continuation cover for Ms S.  
Mr A and Ms S responded to the investigators assessment. They didnt accept the offer of 
compensation in resolution of the complaint. In summary they said:
- Ms S had already provided the requested information to ReAssure in April 2022. The 
reinstatement of her cover should have taken place after the original claim was 
accepted. Reassure has caused delays of many months and this is unacceptable.  
- Reassure has failed to answer queries and they have no faith in the responses 
agreeing to arrange the cover. 
- They have suffered mental agony and are still suffering from a lack of cover in place.
- Mr A still hasnt had his cover reinstated and it has now been more than a year since 
his claim event. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching a decision, Ive concentrated my findings on the complaint that was originally 
made in June 2022 by Mr A and Ms S. This means Ive only considered the issues raised in 
the complaint that stem from the original request to reinstate cover in March 2022. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the circumstances around the cover provided to Mr A. I note ReAssure 
considered the request by him to use the policy feature to reinstate his cover after making a 
claim. I can see that ReAssure confirmed to Mr A in March 2022 it would not be possible at 
this time. It made reference to the policy terms and conditions that state that you can only 
apply for a new After-Claim Policy after a year (but no later than two years) from when it 
agreed the original claim was valid. As it had been less than a year when Mr A attempted to 
reinstate the cover, I think it was fair and reasonable for ReAssure to decline to reinstate the 
cover at this time. 
But the situation was different with Ms Ss cover. She has sought to rely on the continuation 
feature in order to continue to have cover after the claim. Continuation cover is a sperate 
feature for the person who isnt the claimant on a joint policy where a claim has been made.  
As Ms S didnt make a claim based on her circumstances, she was able to apply for more 
cover rather than her cover expiring. From the evidence Ive seen ReAssure didnt properly 
deal with this request. Ill explain why. 
ReAssure received a completed application on 11 March 2022. Following this it requested 
further information from Ms S and this was received on 11 April 2022. But the cover wasnt 
put in place for many months. It also appears it was also only after queries raised in our 
investigation did ReAssure take any real action to arrange the cover. In its final response 
letter, it did concede that it failed to reply to Ms Ss April letter until 6 July 2022.  This letter 
asked Ms S for further medical information. She replied to say she had already provided this. 
By this point Mr A and Ms S had become very frustrated with the progress made, asking this 
service to help resolve the matter. 
Having reviewed the evidence available, I have found failings by ReAssure that contributed 
to the delays in setting up the continuation cover for Ms S. This includes failure to 
communicate in a timely and clear manner about what was required to set up the cover. 
There also appears to be periods of inaction where nothing was happening. There were 
missed opportunities to provide the clarity and understanding Mr A and Ms S were seeking 
about why the cover hadnt started. Ive considered the explanations given by ReAssure for not putting the cover in place sooner. It says it received confirmation that reinstatement was 
wanted, however as this was on a dual life basis and not for Ms S to have cover in her name 
alone, it did not proceed without confirmation as this is different to the cover they held 
originally. From the Ive seen I dont think this was communicated clearly or understood by 
Mr A and Ms S. So, Im not persuaded that this is a good enough reason for the time it took 
to process the request. And as explained above it took until our involvement for action to be 
taken. 
Ive gone on to consider the impact on Mr A and Ms S of the failings Ive identified. Theyve 
told us they were extremely worried about not having cover in place for a long period of time 
 and this contributed to mental stress. Im not aware that during the period without cover Ms 
S has had reason to claim. This is fortunate but I do understand what she has explained 
about the stress caused during this period due to not knowing if she would be covered. They 
were left confused about what was required from them as they replied quickly to all requests 
made of them by ReAssure. They also had to spend time chasing thigs up and trying to find 
out what was going on. 
In order to resolve the complaint, I find it appropriate for ReAssure to pay Mr A and Ms S 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience they have suffered. Our 
investigator recommended total compensation of £500. The impact of ReAssures failings 
has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and inconvenience. I therefore agree 
that compensation of £500 in total is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. I note an 
offer of £250 has already been made by ReAssure and a cheque was due to be sent for this 
amount. It is unclear whether this cheque has been cashed. If it has been, then this amount 
can be deducted from the amount ReAssure needs to pay. If it hasnt been, then ReAssure 
should cancel the cheque and pay Mr A and Ms S the full £500 in resolution of the 
complaint.  
Finally, I note Mr A has provided further submissions relating to the reinstatement of his 
cover now a year has passed since the claim. However, as explained above Im not 
considering the reinstatement of Mr As cover from December 2022. This didnt form part of 
original complaint as it is an event subsequent to the original complaint that was made. If 
there are additional issues have arisen either regarding Mr As cover or Ms Ss, then any 
concerns regarding this will need to be raised as a separate complaint with ReAssure. I dont 
think it is appropriate to expand the scope of this complaint  particular as ReAssure havent 
had opportunity to respond on anything that wasnt part of the original complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct ReAssure Life Limited to pay Mr A and Ms S total 
compensation of £500 (subject to deductions relating to payments already made as per my 
comments above) for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the request 
to replace the cover on their protection policy.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman