DRN-2626987
The complaint
Mr M complains that UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line, (UKI) have unfairly 
declined his rent guarantee claim.
UKI use intermediaries to administer claims on their behalf, so any reference to the insurer 
within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
Mr M holds a landlords insurance policy with UKI that includes cover for rent arrears. He 
originally referred a complaint to this service back in 2019 as he said UKI had declined his 
claim for rent arrears unfairly, as they said he hadnt complied with the condition to notify the 
insurer of the arrears within 90 days.
As the ombudsman that looked into Mr Ms previous complaint, I upheld it in December 2019 
on the basis that UKI couldnt fairly rely on the notification condition, and directed them to 
pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
UKI requested additional evidence from Mr M in January 2020 in order to deal with the claim. 
They overlooked his response and did not progress matters until August 2020, for which 
they offered £250 compensation as a result of the delay. UKI also waived their requirement 
for tenant references to have been obtained, as Mr M was unable to provide these, and they 
settled his rent arrears in September 2020 for £5,627.29 (including the 8% interest awarded 
by this service on the claim value).
However, in addition to the above amount, Mr M claims that he is also due a further payment 
under another section of the policy, which covers 50% of rent for up to three months after the 
property is repossessed, where repairs need to be made before it can be re-let. UKI said this 
cover was available, but that Mr M would need to provide evidence of the damage that was 
caused to his property, through something like a check-out report detailing the dilapidations. 
Mr M was unable to provide any evidence in this regard, and neither could he evidence what 
repairs had been carried out or at what cost. He says the reason he didnt gather any 
evidence of the damage or costs for repair was because UKI had previously failed to cover 
his claim, and because he had carried out the repairs himself. UKI declined to offer cover on 
this basis, so Mr M referred the matter back to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she didnt think it was unreasonable for UKI 
to decline to pay the claim when there was no evidence to suggest there was any damage, 
or how much it cost to repair that damage. Mr M disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Mr M says this is a continuation of his previous complaint about rent arrears. But I do not see 
it that way. UKI have paid the settlement for rent arrears up until vacant repossession was 
obtained, in line with my direction in September 2020. As such, I consider this is now a new 
complaint about whether UKI have unreasonably declined to offer cover under another 
section of the policy that pays a proportion of rent after vacant possession of the property 
has been obtained  namely:
If after vacant possession the property needs damage repaired to enable you to re-
let it, we will pay 50% of your rent arrears to a maximum of 3 months or until the 
property is re-let whichever happens first.
UKI said that in order to consider providing this cover, Mr M would need to evidence that he 
was unable to let the property due to the damage caused, by way of providing a check out 
report that shows the state of the property, as well as invoices for the repair works he carried 
out. I do not think this as an unreasonable request, and I note it is a condition of the policy 
that a detailed inventory is completed before and after the tenants vacate the premises. In 
my experience, this is a common requirement for rent guarantee insurance. 
I appreciate that Mr M may not have completed an inventory because he thought UKI were 
not going to accept his claim for rent arrears. But neither has he been able to provide 
pictures of the damage or receipts for the repairs he had to carry out. So theres currently 
nothing to corroborate what damage was caused, and nothing to suggest whether it was 
even caused by the tenants (rather than being attributed to normal wear and tear, for 
example). 
The burden of proving a claim falls to the policyholder. So, if Mr M is not able to provide any 
evidence to substantiate his claim, then I do not think it is unreasonable for UKI to decline it. 
Even if they did wrongly decline his first claim, I do not think that means they have to now 
accept that damage occurred based on his word alone, as its not reasonable to expect an 
insurer to pay a claim in the absence of any evidence of the same.
Its unfortunate that Mr M didnt record or take any pictures of the damage. But in the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair for UKI to forgo its evidential requirements 
and pay the claim, as there is nothing to suggest that there was any damage in the first 
place, let alone that it prevented the property from being re-let. I will therefore not be asking 
UKI to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman