DRN-1781387
The complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited caused additional damage to his 
vehicle whilst it was under its control.
For ease, any reference to Admiral also includes its agents.
What happened
When abroad on holiday during the summer of 2019, Mr Ds vehicle caught fire. His motor 
insurance policy included cover for his vehicle whilst abroad and so he contacted Admiral. 
Mr D made arrangements for his car to be taken to a local garage to be inspected. After 
initial inspections were completed, Admiral arranged for the vehicle to be repatriated to the 
UK. The car was then held in a yard in the UK belonging to the recovery agent for a further 
couple of weeks before it was recovered to an address requested by Mr D.
Mr D contacted Admiral when his car was returned to say that the front bumper had been 
damaged. He provided photos to show the damage to the vehicle. Admiral looked into his 
complaint and said that the photos showed chips and scuffs to the bumper, but that there 
wasnt any evidence that these were caused by the agents who recovered his vehicle to the 
UK. It did, however, agree to issue a goodwill payment of £200 towards the painting of the 
chips on the bumper.
Mr D said this amount would not cover the full cost of the repair and so, unhappy with this 
outcome, he brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator said the complaint should 
be upheld. She said Admiral hadnt been able to evidence the condition of the vehicle before 
it took it into its possession. She referred to a check sheet completed when the vehicle was 
collected abroad and said this didnt detail any damage to the bumper. 
Admiral disagreed with our investigator. It stood by its original view that there wasnt any 
evidence that the damage had been caused during the repatriation. It also said that the 
damage wasnt noted on the return sheet which was signed by the person who accepted the 
car.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr D says his car has incurred damage that wasnt in existence when he last saw the vehicle 
when abroad and so understandably, he wants to be reimbursed for the cost to repair the 
bumper. What I need to decide is whether the damage is more likely to have occurred when 
it was in the possession of Admirals agents from the time it was collected from the garage 
abroad, until it was returned to Mr D.
 
Admiral have argued that there are no check sheets from either the overseas recovery agent 
who took the car to the local garage, or from the garage itself when it received the vehicle. 
So it says Mr D doesnt have evidence that the damage didnt occur during this time. Whilst 
there are no documents from the overseas companies, Mr D has provided photographs of 
the vehicle at different points throughout this period of time. And Admiral has also supplied 
some pictures when the vehicle was in its possession.
The photos Ive seen from Mr D show the car at the roadside, just after he had pulled over 
and also some of the vehicle at a garage  which would be the overseas garage where the 
vehicle was taken. Admiral has provided photographs of the car when it was being held in 
the UK before being delivered back to Mr D. Whilst some of the photos are not particularly 
clear, there does seem to be more damage to the bumper either side of the car registration 
plate than what is visible on the pictures taken at the roadside and at the overseas garage. 
Im satisfied that there is additional damage to the bumper, and this occurred at some point 
after the pictures were taken at the garage abroad  so this didnt happen during the initial 
recovery overseas. And it therefore seems more likely that this damage occurred during the 
repatriation of the car to the UK.
Admiral has said the vehicle was held in storage by the overseas garage for quite some time 
before the recovery took place. So, it says the damage to the bumper could have occurred 
during this time. I agree this is possible, however, if this was the case I would have expected 
the recovery agent to have recorded this damage to the vehicle at the time of collection. The 
collection check sheet Admiral has sent us doesnt detail any damage to the front bumper. 
Admiral has told us it considers this type of damage to be wear and tear from general road 
use and therefore not something that would be marked on the form at collection. It is 
Admirals choice what it asks its agents to mark on the form but, by not including such detail, 
it means Admiral cannot show that the damage was in existence prior to the collection of the 
vehicle.
 
Another point that Admiral has raised is that the delivery notice signed when Mr D took 
possession of his vehicle doesnt detail this damage. Mr D has said that the form wasnt 
signed by him but by the person at the address where he had asked for the vehicle to be 
taken. However, he has said he was also there and that he did tell the recovery agent about 
the damage. Ive thought about this carefully and whilst I can understand Admirals 
comments on this issue, it is clear from the claim notes it has provided that Mr D was in 
contact with Admiral not long after the vehicle had been delivered to report the damage  so 
Im not persuaded the fact it wasnt put on the form at the time makes a difference to my 
outcome.
Putting things right
Admiral Insurance Company Limited need to do the following;
Pay the cost to repair the front bumper (Admiral can deduct from this payment the 
sum of £200 which it has already paid to Mr D);
If Mr D has already paid for the repairs to be completed, Admiral should include 
interest at the rate of 8% from the date he paid it until it makes its settlement.
My final decisionFor the reasons stated, I uphold this complaint.
 
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman