DRN-2723498
The complaint
The director of company A, who Ill refer to as Mr A complains that Crosby Insurance 
Services Limited (Crosby Insurance) has charged an excessive amount for a small period 
of cover before the policy was cancelled.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr A has explained that he checked Crosby Insurances website which says if the 
policy was cancelled within 14 days then a refund would be issued, minus the 
insurers charge. And hes said the website doesnt mention any broker cancellation 
fees. But the Terms of Business Agreement which was sent to Mr A on 13 October 
2020 says this applies to consumers acting outside of their trade  and Mr As policy 
was for business use. So the same cancellation terms wouldnt apply. I also think the 
terms sent with the policy would supersede any information on a website. And Im not 
persuaded that had the website mentioned cancellation fees this would have 
deterred Mr A from taking out a policy with Crosby Insurance.
Mr A says he didnt get a chance to read the terms and conditions as he deleted the 
initial email with the first quote and obtained a separate quotation from Crosby 
Insurance later the same day. However, it would be reasonable to expect a 
businesss terms and conditions to remain the same despite obtaining a new quote. 
And so I havent seen enough here to persuade me that Mr A couldnt have 
recovered the deleted email or asked for another set of terms and conditions. I also 
havent seen enough evidence to suggest Mr A was put under any unfair pressure to 
take out the policy without having read the terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions which were sent to Mr A on 13 October 2020 say that a 
charge may apply for the period of cover provided, as well as an administration 
charge  and that a cancellation charge will apply for commercial clients. And looking 
at the charges that were retained by Crosby Insurance, I can see that these had 
been reduced and it hasnt retained the full charges its entitled to keep under its 
terms, so I dont think Crosby Insurance has acted unfairly here.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I 
do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A on behalf of 
A to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman