DRN-2748021
The complaint
 Mr H complains that he is unhappy with the repairs and subsequent rectification work to his 
car, carried out by the approved repairer of Admiral insurance company limited (Admiral), 
following an accident. 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr H was involved in a traffic accident resulting in a dent to the rear wing of 
his car and a crack on the driver's side trim.
Admiral dealt with the claim and arranged for one of its approved repairers to carry out the 
work needed to repair Mr H's car. Mr H complained as he had concerns about the quality of 
work that had been carried out, saying the paintwork was not up to pre-accident standard.
Admiral instructed an independent engineer to inspect Mr H's car, they agreed the car 
needed rectification work. Admiral arranged for the approved repairers to carry out the 
rectification work, and paid Mr H £100 in compensation for the inconvenience this had a 
back caused.
On collection of his car, Mr H noticed there were further problems with the paintwork he 
reported this to Admiral. Admiral arranged to the independent engineer to re-inspect the car. 
The engineer agreed there was some hazing to the paintwork and polished this out at the 
time of the inspection and provided a report which outlined the vehicle had been returned to 
its pre-accident state and Mr H was happy with it.
Admiral paid another £50 compensation to Mr H.
Mr H later found further problems with the paintwork and remained unhappy with the overall 
service Admiral had provided and so brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator didn't uphold Mr H's complaint, in summary, he said:
Admiral had acted reasonably in relying on the independent engineer's report saying 
the car had been returned to its pre-accident state
Admiral had awarded compensation in line with what we'd expect and had 
apologised for the mistakes it had made
Mr H didn't agree, he felt that Admiral should arrange for the car to be returned to its pre-
accident state. He also said he didn't agree that £150 was suitable compensation for the 
inconvenience this had caused him. So the matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings on 18 March 2021, they were:
"while I have been considering Mr H's complaint, matters have moved on. Admiral arranged 
for an independent engineer to reinspect Mr H's car. The engineer agreed with Mr H that the 
car was not back to its pre-accident state and that rectification work would need to be carried 
out. He suggested the car may need to have a re-flat and polish. Mr H has said he has lost 
confidence in the approved repairer and so does not want it to carry out any further work on 
his car.
Admiral wrote to Mr H and confirmed it is happy for him to find a suitable repairer to get a 
quote, it will then approve the repairs. It also awarded a further £50 in compensation to Mr H.
Mr H let our investigator know that he was still unhappy with the level of compensation. He 
also said that he thought that Admiral should find a repairer.
The situation has moved again since and Mr H has now found a repairer and is waiting for a 
quote he has let Admiral know the repairer has said the areas of the car that had been 
painted previously, by the approved repairer, may need to be repainted to bring the car back 
to its original condition. This is different from the engineer's recommendation.
Given how matters have progressed I contacted Admiral for their comments. It has 
confirmed to me, that any quote Mr H provides will be passed to the independent engineer 
that has inspected the car. It has given him the authority to approve any work that he feels is 
appropriate to rectify the situation. I'm satisfied that this is the best course of action for it to 
take and that the independent engineer is the person that is most appropriate to approve the 
works of any new repairer.
There is no doubt Mr H has been inconvenienced by having to return his car for rectification 
work, and by having to be around for engineers to inspect his car. This wouldn't have been 
the case had his car been repaired correctly the first time.
Although the repair work wasn't to the expected standard it hasn't prevented Mr H from 
being able to use his car, but I do accept that Mr H has been worried that his car would be 
left in an unsatisfactory state and has been frustrated by the length of time this has taken.
Admiral has taken responsibility for the failings of the approved repairer as I would expect it 
to have done, and while the claim has been ongoing for some time, I can see Admiral has 
taken Mr H's concerns seriously and have been keen to try and resolve matters.
Mr H has made it clear that he feels Admiral hasn't compensated him fairly, so I thought 
about the service it's provided very carefully. Having done so I have to say that overall, I'm 
satisfied the £200 Admiral has already paid Mr H is in line with what I'd generally expect for 
failings of this nature, so I won't be asking it to increase this.
Moving forward, Mr H should provide Admiral with the quotation from the new repairer for it 
to pass to the independent engineer for approval. Admiral should continue to work with Mr H 
to resolve matters and restore his car to its pre-accident state.
If there are any further problems arising from this claim after my final decision, Mr H would 
be free to bring those back to our service for consideration under a separate complaint." 
I invited both parties to respond to my findings.
Admiral responded saying it had nothing further to add.
Mr H responded, he said the engineer had discussed the quotation he had provided from his 
chosen repairer and hadn't agreed with the additional work the chosen repairer has said was 
needed. Mr H said he is concerned that the outstanding issues will not be rectified, and his 
car wont be returned to its pre-accident condition, by that re-flat and polish the engineer has 
recommended.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H has said but it doesn't change things for me, I'll 
explain.
Admiral has agreed that Mr H's car needs to be put back to its pre--accident condition, and 
in order to reach that goal it is had an independent engineer inspect the car and agreed for 
the engineer to be able to approve any rectification work. In my provisional findings I said I 
believe the engineer to be the best placed person to decide what work is needed.
I understand Mr H has reservations, as previous rectification work hasn't gone as planned, at 
the repairers he has spoken to have said the car needs more. But my role here is to decide 
how to put right what has already gone wrong, not to prejudge issues that may come up in 
the future. Its not for me to say what work should be carried out, and I still think the engineer 
that has inspected the car is best placed to decide this. And, while I dont dispute what Mr 
Hs repairer has suggested, Im more persuaded by the expertise and independence of the 
engineer that has inspected the car. 
Putting things right
 Mr H should now provide Admiral with a quote for the work the engineer has recommended, 
from a repairer of his choice, for it to approve.
If Mr H cannot find a repairer to carry out this work, Admiral should assist him in doing so.
If as Mr H fears, the rectification work does not resolve the issues, he should raise this with 
Admiral in the first instance as this would form a separate complaint to this one.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr H's complaint against 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited. It should now:
work with Mr H to approve a repairer to carry out the rectification work needed on his 
car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman