DRN-2432693
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt process a cheque which she submitted via 
the banks mobile banking app.
What happened
In May 2020, Mrs R deposited a cheque for £750 using Lloyds banking app on her mobile 
phone. 
Lloyds were unable to process this cheque, and although Lloyds no longer have a copy of 
the image that was provided, this was most likely because some or all of the information on 
the cheque was not visible in the image.
Lloyds sent Mrs R a letter which explained that the cheque could not be processed. The 
letter advised, incorrectly, that the cheque had been stopped and that a replacement cheque 
would need to be submitted. This was of concern to Mrs R as the cheque was from a third 
party and she wasnt sure she would be able to obtain a replacement cheque from the third 
party in a timely manner. Later, Mrs R visited a Lloyds branch and deposited the original 
cheque. The cheque was processed by Lloyds and the money credited to Mrs Rs account.
Mrs R was unhappy and made a complaint to Lloyds about the cheque being declined, and 
also about how Lloyds had communicated the matter to her, including telling Mrs R that the 
cheque had been stopped. 
 
Lloyds investigated the complaint, and while they agreed that the clarity of their 
communication to Mrs R about the issue could have been better, they felt that they had been 
correct to not process the cheque in the first instance, and so they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs R remained dissatisfied and referred the matter to our service, explaining in detail how 
this issue had caused her tremendous anxiety and stress. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint, and while our investigator sympathised with Mrs Rs personal position, 
they also felt that Lloyds had not acted unfairly in declining the cheque initially submitted by 
Mrs R via the mobile banking app.
Our investigator did, however, agree that Lloyds communication on the matter could have 
been clearer, especially with regard to Lloyds incorrect comments that that cheque had been 
stopped. However, our investigator noted that Mrs R had successfully deposited the cheque 
in branch at the earliest opportunity. As such, our investigator felt that the misleading 
communication issued by Lloyds had not had a significant impact, as Ms R would have 
needed to visit a Lloyds branch even if the correct status of the cheque had been advised to 
her.
Mrs R didnt agree with our investigators view, and so the matter was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the detailed correspondence between Mrs R and our investigator, and I echo our 
investigators sympathy with regard to Mrs Rs personal position and the difficulties that 
having the cheque declined must have caused her.
However, I must also echo the decision of our investigator, for essentially the same reasons, 
and there is little more that I can add than has already been very well explained and 
expressed by our investigator before me.
Ultimately, Lloyds couldnt process the initial cheque. I have no reason to suspect that 
Lloyds declining to process the cheque was for any other reason than not being able to read 
the information necessary to correctly process it. Lloyds followed their process for notifying 
customers that their cheque submission has been unsuccessful when they wrote to Mrs R to 
say that the cheque couldnt be processed  and thats what Id expect here. Given this, Mrs 
R would always have needed to have taken additional steps to ensure the cheque could be 
deposited.
I agree that the language used by Lloyds in communicating that the cheque had been 
declined to Mrs R could have been better. And advising that a replacement cheque would be 
needed wasnt helpful, when in fact all that was required was that the initial cheque be taken 
into branch. But I note that Mrs R did take the initial cheque into branch, and that it was 
successfully deposited with the money being credited to her account.
Mrs R has advised that the delay in the money being available to her caused her some 
inconvenience, as did the need to make a trip to a Lloyds branch. But, given that I accept 
that Lloyds were correct to decline the initial submission of the cheque, making such a trip to 
a Lloyds branch was unfortunately necessary. So here, while I take on board Mrs Rs 
comments, I think she deposited the cheque, and received the money, as soon as the 
circumstances allowed, given that the initial cheque submission had been unsuccessful.
Because of this, I cant say that Lloyds should do any more in this instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman