DRN-2618830
The complaint
Miss D and Mr O complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) wont pay a quote for 
repairs to their thermal storage unit that they say Avivas engineer damaged when he 
attended in respect of a claim under their home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D and Mr O had an insurance policy with Aviva for their house, which included home 
emergency insurance. In October 2020, Miss D and Mr O claimed on this insurance in 
respect of a leaking radiator, and Avivas engineer attended.
Following this visit, Miss D and Mr O complained that during his visit, the engineer had 
repeatedly drained and refilled the thermal storage unit connected to their boiler. Since then, 
they said there were banging noises and vibration coming from the unit, and it didnt come 
on as it should.
Mr O wouldnt let Avivas engineer return to inspect and deal with these issues as he was 
unhappy with Avivas previous work. Aviva noted that the unit wasnt covered under the 
policy; but as the engineer confirmed he had drained the unit, and the unit had since been 
making a noise, Aviva said it would accept liability. However, it needed Mr O to send quotes 
for the remedial work prior to it being done so that it could assess these and authorise 
reimbursement.
Mr O sent Aviva a quote for repairs to the thermal storage unit for £1,100 plus VAT. Aviva 
was concerned at the amount of this and asked Mr O to get a second quote. Mr O produced 
a second quote for £900.
Aviva was concerned about the lack of detail in the quotes, and the cost. It said it needed to 
send someone to assess the detail of the fault, and what parts were required. In December 
2020 two Aviva engineers visited the property. In summary, they found:
the hot water heated with no noise, and correctly operated via the bath and basin 
taps, with no faults identified;
the radiators heated up, although some took longer than others;
the gas boiler was a bit noisy, but this wasnt unusual for its age;
the boiler was allowed to reach temperature, cool down and reignite without any 
failure;
the thermal store wasnt found to have any faults; and
the noise Mr O reported wasnt heard during the visit, which lasted over two hours.
Following the visit, Aviva told Miss D and Mr O that its engineers hadnt found any fault with 
the unit that it could have caused, and they had heating and hot water. It didnt agree it had 
caused issues with the unit, and would no longer accept any liability in respect of the unit. 
Miss D and Mr O complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that based 
on the detailed report by Avivas two engineers, and the tests they described having 
conducted, she didnt believe there were any faults with the unit that she could direct Aviva 
to pay to repair.
Mr O had said he wanted Aviva to visit again and carry out further tests, but she didnt agree 
that would be reasonable. Miss D and Mr O asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to issue a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr O says they are still experiencing issues with the unit, he hasnt produced any 
independent technical evidence to support this, or to suggest that anything Aviva did caused 
any damage to the unit. On the other hand, two Aviva engineers have produced a report 
confirming that having carried out detailed tests they found no faults with the unit.
That being so, I cant reasonably conclude that Aviva was, in fact, responsible for any issues 
with the unit, or that it should now pay anything to Miss D and Mr O.
If Miss D and Mr O can produce such independent technical evidence to Aviva, I would 
expect it to consider this carefully. If they arent satisfied with what Aviva does next, they can 
then bring a separate complaint about that to this service.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman