DRN-3860751
The complaint
Mr A complains that he tried to send money through Monzo Bank Ltd, but it did not arrive.
What happened
Mr A says that he transferred £250 to the wrong account and Monzo has not helped him to 
retrieve the money.
Monzo says Mr A sent money to the wrong account due to a similarity between two names. 
It says its tried to recover the money, but it is unable to do so without the permission of the 
account holder and they have not responded to requests. Monzo adds that Mr A would only 
have been able to send money this way to other Monzo accounts in his phone contacts.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that Monzo 
had not made an error and had acted as shed expect in trying to retrieve the money. She 
said that Monzo was not required to do anything further.
Mr A responded to say, in summary, that the method by which he transferred the money was 
specific to Monzo and there should be legal means to retrieve the money in this situation, 
especially as the recipient was also a Monzo customer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that Mr A sent the money using Monzos internal system that enables a 
customer to transfer money to other Monzo customers that are in their contacts list. I 
acknowledge that Mr A says he does not know who the recipient is, but I find it likely that 
Mr A had the contacts details in his phone.
I also note from Mr As bank statement that, on the same day, he received £250 from an 
account bearing the same name as the one to which he says he inadvertently paid £250. 
Mr A says a friend lent him the money that day, but that he returned the money later the 
same day. He says his friend told him he did not receive the money and Monzo has not 
helped him retrieve it.
Monzo has now sent evidence that the money was received from and returned to the same 
account. It also confirmed that the account holder of that account also explained that the 
money was a loan.
I acknowledge that Mr A says he subsequently transferred a further £250 from another 
account, but Im satisfied that the initial money was received by the intended party.
Based on all the evidence I have seen, I do not find Monzo made any errors and it is not 
required to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman