DRN-1149544
 
Complaint
Mr A complains that Vitality Health Limited turned down his group private medical insurance 
claim. Hes represented in this complaint by his wife, Mrs A.
Background
Mr A was covered under a group private medical insurance policy. The policy included cover 
for oral surgery. Mr A made a claim under the policy as he needed a wisdom tooth removed. 
Vitality turned down the claim and said it wasnt covered under the policy terms. Unhappy 
with this, Mr A brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the policy terms 
made it clear that the removal of the tooth would only be covered if Mr A had experienced 
repeated pain or infections. As that hadnt been the case, he thought Vitalitys decision to 
decline the claim was reasonable. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy says:
Oral surgery
WHATS COVERED

surgical removal of impacted teeth, or partially erupted teeth, causing repeated pain 
or infections, and complicated buried roots."
 
The information Vitality has been given by Mr As dentist is that the tooth needs to be 
removed because its growing sideways and cant be cleaned properly. And its decaying 
and is infecting the tooth next to it. The dentist confirmed that Mr A didnt have pain or 
infections, and the problem with the tooth was found during a routine check-up.
Mrs A thinks the wording is clear that the tooth only needs to have complicated buried roots 
for the policy to respond. She says the tooth must have complicated buried roots, because 
otherwise the dentist would have been able to remove it without the need for a surgeon.I agree with Mrs A that the tooth likely does have complicated buried roots. However, I dont 
agree with her interpretation of the wording. I think the wording is clear that in order for the 
claim to be covered, the tooth would need to be causing Mr A repeated pain or infections, 
and (my emphasis) there would need to be complicated buried roots. Therefore, complicated 
buried roots alone wouldnt be enough for the policy to respond. 
Given that Mr A didnt have repeated pain or infections at the time, Im satisfied Vitality 
declined the claim in line with the policy terms. 
Although I understand Mr A has now started experiencing pain, he no longer has cover 
under the policy and so isn't able to now claim for the treatment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman