DRN-3936398
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
surrounding his wanting to set up a standing order on the telephone.
What happened
Mr L called Halifax to set up a standing order on his account. But the Halifax agent he spoke 
with confirmed it wasnt something that could be set up on the telephone at that time. Mr L 
wasnt happy about this or with the length of time he was on the telephone trying to set up 
the standing order, so he raised a complaint.
Halifax responded to Mr Ls complaint and reiterated that it hadnt been possible for their 
agent to set up a standing order on the telephone as Mr L had wanted. Halifax also 
confirmed that they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr L in how theyd managed 
the situation, and so didnt uphold his complaint. Mr L wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Halifax had acted 
unfairly towards Mr L as he felt was the case. Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr L may have been frustrated that he was unable to set up a standing 
order on his account as he wanted, including that Halifaxs voice ID system didnt recognise 
his voice and that Halifaxs telephone agent wouldnt set up the standing order for him.
Ive listened to the telephone call in question here, and its clear from this call that Mr L had 
been trying to set up the standing order via other channels before that call took place. This is 
because Mr L explains on that call that hed attempted to set up the standing order online 
and had also tried to call Halifax and be verified through Halifaxs voice ID system, but 
without success.
The agent that spoke with Mr L looked into the problems that Mr L was having and explained 
that when hed tried to set up the standing order online, hed only instructed a one-off 
payment and not a recurring monthly payment as hed wanted to. 
Halifaxs agent also noted that Mr Ls incoming call number was showing on her system as 
being a freephone number and not Mr Ls own telephone number, and that the voice ID 
system would only work if Mr L called that system directly from his own number, which Mr L 
confirmed hadnt been the case in this instance and that his call had been transferred in.
The agent then explained that because Mr L hadnt passed the requisite level of security 
verification at that time  which would have been achieved if Mr L had successfully passed 
through the voice ID system  she wouldnt be able to set up the standing order for Mr L as 
he would like
Finally, the agent presented Mr L with four possible options of how she could help him set up 
the standing order. These included the agent talking Mr L through him setting up the 
standing order online; Mr L hanging up the call and calling back from his own number to go 
through the voice ID system and obtain the requisite level of verification; the agent sending a 
security code to Mr L in the post and him calling back upon its receipt; or Mr L visiting a 
Halifax branch to set up the standing order there.
The actions and explanations of Halifaxs agent all seem very reasonable to me here and its 
difficult to find any fault with them. Unfortunately, Mr L hadnt passed the level of security 
verification required to enable the agent to set up the standing order as he wanted. The 
agent was very clear about this and explained why Mr Ls prior attempts to set up the 
standing order had failed, and she presented Mr L with a variety of options to allow him to 
set up the standing order moving forwards.
Mr L is unhappy at the length of time he was on the telephone with Halifax. But it must be 
noted that Halifaxs agent achieved everything Ive explained in the preceding paragraph 
within the first seven minutes of that call. And while the call did then last for a further 20 
minutes, this was because Mr L was unhappy that the standing order couldnt be set up and 
didnt accept the explanation of what options were available to him. And while I appreciate 
Mr Ls frustration here, I dont feel that I can reasonably hold Halifax accountable for this.
Ultimately, I dont feel that Halifax did anything wrong here. This is because I feel their agent 
was able to explain why Mr Ls prior attempts to set up the direct debit had failed and what 
options were now available to him to achieve the set up of the standing order that he 
wanted. This included a clear explanation of why the agent themselves couldnt set up the 
standing order at that time, as well as an offer by the agent to talk Mr L through him setting 
up the standing order online to help him avoid any potential mistakes that he may have 
made previously. And in consideration of Halifaxs agents action here, its difficult to 
hypothesise what more she could have done.
I appreciate that Mr L would have been frustrated. But I dont feel its reasonable to expect 
Halifaxs agent to have done anything beyond what she did here, and this is because she 
wasnt permitted to do anything further by Halifaxs security protocols  which are protocols 
that dont seem unreasonable to me and which it isnt within the remit of this service to 
instruct Halifax to change. 
Finally, while I can appreciate that Mr L may also have been frustrated at the amount of time 
he had to wait on hold before being connected to Halifaxs agent, I feel that any frustration 
Mr L encountered in this regard was sadly a necessary and natural inconvenience that can 
arise when trying to contact a business such as Halifax. This is because Halifax cant control 
how many people try to call them at any one time, and because it would be expected that 
Halifax would answer the phone calls they do receive in the order that they receive them.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action here. I hope 
that Mr L will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman