DRN-1839925
The complaint
Mrs B complains about a cheque that Barclays Bank UK PLC decided not to pay.
What happened
Mrs B wrote a cheque and posted it to a finance company as the final payment towards the 
purchase of a new car. Much to her surprise Mrs B was contacted soon after to say the 
cheque had been returned unpaid. After some inconvenience Mrs B managed to transfer the 
funds to the finance company from her bank account. 
Mrs B was unhappy with what happened saying it caused her distress and embarrassment 
so complained to Barclays. 
Barclays said they carry out random checks to prevent fraud and the signature on the 
cheque didn't match the one they had on record. They said they called Mrs B but didn't 
manage to speak to her, so the cheque was returned unpaid, and they notified her by letter. 
Barclays said Mrs B should visit a branch of the bank to complete a new signature mandate.
Mrs B was unhappy with the response for Barclays saying that other cheques with the same 
signature had been paid so came to our service. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened, and thought Barclays didn't do anything wrong by returning the cheque. Mrs B 
remained unhappy saying that a correct decision could only be made by a hand writing 
expert. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start I think it's important to say that I'm not a hand writing expert, and to make a decision 
on this case I don't need to be. What I'm considering is whether I think Barclays acted fairly 
and reasonably in their actions when checking the signature on the cheque. And, in the 
ultimate action of deciding not to pay the cheque. It's not for me to decide whether I 
personally think the signatures match.
It's clear to me that Mrs B wanted the cheque to be paid. Before the cheque was presented 
Mrs B accessed her online banking to transfer money to the account. There were sufficient 
funds in the account to pay the cheque. And, Mrs B didn't contact Barclays to dispute the 
cheque. However, all of this doesn't mean Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
checking the signature and ultimately deciding not to pay the cheque.
Measures such as checking signatures on cheques are in place to prevent fraud. Barclays 
are free to set their security policy about which cheques to check, and what action to take if 
they are unhappy with the signatures. These measures may sometimes cause 
inconvenience, but they are in place to protect customers and prevent loss of funds to fraud.
There certainly was some inconvenience to Mrs B who says she suffered great distress and 
embarrassment, and I've no doubt about this. Purchasing a new car should be a happy occasion, but here that didn't turn out to be the case. I'm glad to see, admittedly after several 
telephone calls on her part, Mrs B was able to transfer the money to the finance company 
and take ownership of the car. 
To put things right Mrs B wants Barclays to; explain their reasons for not paying the cheque, 
apologise, and reimburse costs incurred in her dealings with the payee. Mrs B adds that 
other cheques with same signature been paid so can't understand this cheque wasn't paid, 
and why she's been asked to sign a new mandate.
In their response to Mrs B Barclays explained the cheque wasn't paid as they thought the 
signature was different to the one they had on record. They said they were sorry for any 
embarrassment that was caused. But because they didn't uphold the complaint they didn't 
reimburse any costs. They also explained that the other cheques hadn't been randomly 
selected for checking. So I'm satisfied Barclays has dealt with the complaint fairly, and that 
they explained their reasons for not paying cheque.
When the cheque was presented for payment it was randomly selected for 
checking. Barclays were unhappy with the signature on the cheque so called Mrs B on the 
mobile telephone number they had on file her, but didn't get an answer. Mrs B says this was 
because it was an old number, and not her current one. Because they couldn't speak to Mrs 
B to verify the cheque Barclays returned the cheque as unpaid and sent a letter confirming 
this. This is the procedure Barclays has when conducting this kind of check. So I'm happy 
Barclays followed their own procedures. 
Of course just following procedures isn't always enough, so the question I ask myself is; did 
Barclays act fairly and reasonably in their actions?
Having looked at what happened I think they did. Barclays had genuine concerns about the 
signature on the cheque. In order to protect Mrs B from potential fraud they returned the 
cheque unpaid. It's clear now the cheque was genuine, and of course Mrs B knew that 
all along, but Barclays didn't know this at the time. They followed their procedure for when 
there are concerns about a signature, and took reasonable steps to protect Mrs B from 
fraud. 
Having considered everything I'm satisfied Barclays acted fairly and reasonably when 
deciding not pay the cheque. That's not to say Mrs B wasn't put to some inconvenience; she 
was. But the amount of inconvenience is small compared to what might have happened had 
the cheque not been genuine, and had Barclays allowed it to be paid.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman