DRN-2835760
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Skyfire Insurance Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy and is now seeking to recover its costs from him. He wants it to cover his 
claim.
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire which he renewed several times. When 
he collided with another car whilst leaving his workplace, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Skyfire declined his claim. It said hed answered the question hed been asked about how he 
used his car incorrectly. It said Mr Ss policy didnt cover him for commuting. And that it 
considered that he wasnt covered by his policy which entitled it to refuse his claim. Skyfire 
said it wouldnt indemnify Mr S for the other drivers repair and medical costs.
our investigators view
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He 
firstly thought that Mr S wasnt covered by his policy terms as it didnt state that he was 
covered whilst commuting. He later thought there had been a misrepresentation as Mr S had 
answered the question he was asked about use of the car incorrectly. He believed Mr S had 
been reckless or deliberate in making the misrepresentation. So he said Skyfire neednt deal 
with Mr Ss claim. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr S 
thought hed made a careless misrepresentation when asked how he used the car.  
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Skyfire on 20 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
I was sorry to hear about the effect this matter has had on Mr S and his family. I could 
understand that it has been a very stressful experience for him. 
Skyfire didnt say it had refused the claim because of misrepresentation but because Mr S 
wasnt covered by the policy terms. But I thought the relevant law in this case was The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). I could see that 
Skyfires decision to decline the claim was because of the answer Mr S gave to a question 
he was asked when the policy was taken out. I thought CIDRA applied because the 
inception of the policy decides on the terms applicable to the policy. And Skyfires decision to 
decline the claim was because of the resultant policy terms. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Mr S said when he first took out a policy from Skyfire, six years ago, he was an unemployed 
student and didnt choose commuting as he didnt understand what it meant. I didnt see the 
questions Mr S was asked when he first took out a policy with Skyfire. So I couldnt say 
whether he was asked a clear question about his use of the car at that time. 
But Mr S then started using his car to drive to work. Mr S said he believed that he was 
covered for commuting as it wasnt a stated exclusion on his policy certificate. But Skyfire 
had sent Mr S his renewal invitations between 2015 and 2019. 
The invitations directed him to the online portal and asked him to check that his policy was 
right for his needs. Mr S said he didnt access these documents. But I thought he was 
reasonably directed to them and I thought it was up to Mr S to check that the policy met his 
needs. I couldnt see that Mr S told Skyfire that he couldnt access his documents. 
On the portal, in section 2 of the Statement of Motor Insurance is the statement, commuting 
use required and the answer is no. I thought this was a clear question asked by Skyfire. 
Mr S told us that he used the car to travel to work. And so I thought Mr S failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he didnt correct this statement and 
so said he didnt use the car for commuting.
For this to be considered a qualifying mis-representation I needed to see if Mr Ss answer 
induced Skyfire into offering cover it wouldnt normally do or offer it on different terms. 
Skyfire provided evidence from its underwriting guide which showed that if Mr S had not 
made this misrepresentation it would still have offered him cover, but for a 1% increase in 
premium. This meant I was satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one under 
CIDRA.
I next needed to consider whether Mr Ss misrepresentation was careless or reckless or 
deliberate. 
Mr S said hed been open with Skyfire that he was coming from work at the time of the 
accident as he thought he was covered for commuting. I listened to the notification call, and I 
thought Mr S corrected the agent when he said Mr S had been returning from the shops. I 
thought Mr S was open that he was coming from work. So I thought it was clear that Mr S 
didnt realise that his policy didnt cover him for commuting. 
Mr S thought that the fact that he stopped using his car for commuting after the repudiation 
of his claim should be considered. But I didnt think this was relevant as it was after the 
event. 
I didnt think that Skyfire had shown that Mr Ss misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless. I thought hed continued his policy from his student days without checking that it 
met his changed needs. 
So, I thought the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and Skyfire would have charged 
a higher premium if Mr S hadnt made the misrepresentation. So in that case, the available remedy under CIDRA was that Skyfire will have to consider the claim and settle it 
proportionately.
Therefore, I was satisfied Skyfire wasnt entitled to decline Mr Ss in accordance with CIDRA. 
And I thought Skyfire did have to deal with his claim following the collision. And  as CIDRA 
reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I thought not allowing 
Skyfire to rely on it to decline Mr Ss claim produced the fair and reasonable outcome in this 
complaint. 
Mr S was also concerned that his No Claims Discount (NCD) had reduced by four years 
because of the claim, even though Skyfire had repudiated it. But I thought Skyfire told Mr S 
in the notification call the claim would be recorded as a fault. The agent told Mr S clearly that 
his NCD would reduce by four years because of the claim. And I also thought Skyfire 
reduced Mr Ss NCD in keeping with the NCD section on its renewal invitation.
Subject to any further representations by Mr S or Skyfire, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I intended to require Skyfire Insurance Limited to deal 
with Mr Ss claim following the collision and settle it in proportion to the amount of premium 
Mr S paid compared the amount he should have paid without the misrepresentation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S replied that he had nothing further to add. Skyfire stated that it didnt think CIDRA 
applied, but that Mr S wasnt covered for commuting. And so it thought it didnt need to cover 
the claim. 
But, as Ive explained above, I disagree and think CIDRA does apply in this case. Skyfires 
decision to decline the claim was because of the answer Mr S gave to a question he was 
asked when the policy was taken out. I think CIDRA applies because the inception of the 
policy decides on the terms applicable to the policy. And Skyfires decision to decline the 
claim was because of the resultant policy terms.
As Ive explained above, I think the qualifying misrepresentation was careless. And Skyfire 
would have charged a higher premium if Mr S hadnt made the misrepresentation. So the 
available remedy under CIDRA is that Skyfire will have to consider the claim and settle it 
proportionately.
Putting things right
I require Skyfire Insurance Limited to deal with Mr Ss claim following the collision and settle 
it in proportion to the amount of premium Mr S paid compared the amount he should have 
paid without the misrepresentation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I require 
Skyfire Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman