DRN-2473585
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to deal with a 
claim he made under his car insurance policy as a fault claim. Mr P is unhappy Admiral 
didnt look to recover the costs of the claim from a third party.
What happened
Mr Ps car was damaged beyond economical repair in July 2019 when he drove over debris 
he says was left in the road from the lorry in a previous incident. Mr P wanted his insurer, 
Admiral to claim against the driver of the vehicle that had left the debris. 
Admiral said it would be very difficult to prove the third party acted negligently and as Mr P 
hadnt been involved in a road traffic incident with the other vehicle, Admiral said it wouldnt 
look to make a recovery from them. So it decided to settle the claim as a fault claim. 
Mr P was very unhappy with Admirals decision. He thought it should have contacted the 
police and the third party. Mr P said they both told him the lorry driver was at fault for the 
incident that led to the debris being on the road. But Admiral said it was entitled to make 
such a decision in line with the policy. 
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator didnt think Admiral had acted fairly. 
She explained that we dont decide liability. But she didnt think Admiral had properly 
investigated the claim. 
She thought as a previous accident had occurred and part of the lorry's debris was in the 
road, Admiral could have done more to determine if there was a third party at fault for the 
previous accident - they could then also be held accountable for this accident as it would not 
have occurred had the previous accident not happened. The investigator therefore 
recommended Admiral change the recording of the claim to a non fault claim and refund Mr 
Ps excess. She also recommended Admiral provide a letter to show Mr Ps correct No 
Claims Discount (NCD)  or update his NCD to reflect the change in the claim if his car 
insurance was still with Admiral.
Mr P accepted the investigators findings. He also provided photos he took when the incident 
happened. He says Admiral didnt ask him for these.
Admiral didnt agree. It said that Mr P hit an inanimate object that was there to be seen and 
he was aware of the lorry and police presence. So he was aware there was an incident and 
he saw other cars swerving to avoid the object.
Admiral said that in context, had Mr P hit a broken down car, or cars that had already been 
in an incident, Admiral wouldnt have been in a position to hold the insurer of those vehicles 
at fault or recover their outlay  and the same principle applies here. Admiral said that it isnt 
for the Police to decide liability. 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2020. I thought Admiral had reached its 
decision in a reasonable way. So I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P didnt agree. He says he called the lorry drivers insurer and they told him Admiral 
hadnt contacted them. He said the lorry driver didnt claim through his insurer. He doesnt 
think Admiral did enough to properly investigate the claim as it didnt request a police report 
and the lorry driver admitted responsibility at the scene.
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr P will be very disappointed, but after considering his additional 
comments, I havent changed my mind. Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, we dont decide liability. But we can look at whether an insurer 
reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. Admiral has a very common term 
which says that it is entitled to take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This means it 
might make a decision Mr P doesnt agree with, but the policy allows it to do this. We dont 
disagree with this term in principle, provided the insurer can show it treated its customer 
fairly when applying it.
Admirals claim notes show it considered the circumstances of the incident when Mr P first 
reported it in July 2019. From very early on, I think Admiral managed Mr Ps expectations 
about the chances of making a recovery from a third party. I appreciate that Mr P says the 
third party insurer told him something different  but Admirals notes show it contacted the 
third party insurer and established that no admittance of liability or claim had been recorded 
with them. Mr P says the lorry driver didnt make a claim. This seems to be consistent with 
Admirals notes of its contact with the third party insurer. And any discussion at the scene 
about fault by either party in the moment isnt something an insurer can reasonably rely on 
when deciding how to settle a claim.
A week later Admiral told Mr P that it wouldnt look to recover its losses from the third party 
insurer as it wouldnt be able to prove negligence. It said the debris was there to be seen as 
other cars had swerved to avoid it. Admiral understood that from Mr Ps view there was little 
he could do to avoid it. But this didnt change its decision. 
A week later Admiral reviewed its decision and maintained its position. It was satisfied that in 
terms of liability, it wouldnt be able to successfully recover the claim costs from the third 
party insurer. 
So I think Admiral has shown that it properly considered what happened and carried out a 
fair investigation. Its in the insurers interests to pursue a third party for the recovery of their 
costs where they believe their chances of success are high. Based on their experience of 
dealing with claims, Admirals view was that the evidence wasnt strong enough to pursue 
the third party for recovery. So I cant conclude that Admiral reached its decision to record 
the claim as it did unfairly. 
I understand Mr P doesnt agree. But I think Admiral reached its decision to settle the claim 
as a fault claim in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. So Im not upholding his 
complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman