DRN-4310971
The complaint
Ms W complains that Monzo Bank Plc has declined to refund a payment that was made as 
part of a scam.
What happened
Ms W says that on 18 February 2023 she fell victim to a scam. Shes explained she was in 
Hong Kong with a friend who was helping her sell an item through a re-sale app. A potential 
buyer messaged her directly and her friend shared Ms Ws card details thinking this was how 
Ms W would be paid. Ms W thought her friend was corresponding in Cantonese so didnt 
look at the screen but was aware of what her friend was doing and why.
Ms W opened her mobile banking app thinking this was to approve the receipt of the 
payment and gave it to her friend. Her friend confirmed the payment which she later realised 
was a payment from the account for £419.69. Ms W says theyd assumed they were selling 
the running vest for 500 Hong Kong dollars, but the payment was in US dollars. 
Monzo declined to provide a refund on the basis that the payment was authorised. It said the 
payment was approved using Ms Ws mobile banking app on her genuine device. It then 
said she had been negligent in allowing her friend to use her mobile banking app in breach 
of the account terms and conditions.
When Ms W complained to our service, the investigator upheld the complaint. They said they 
thought the payment was unauthorised as Ms W hadnt made the payment and when it was 
approved in the app she (and her friend) had thought this was to receive a payment. The 
investigator said that as this was an online card payment to a company it appeared to be 
distance contract  this meant that under the relevant regulations Monzo couldnt hold 
Ms W liable on the basis that it thought she had been grossly negligent. They recommended 
Monzo provide a refund of the disputed payment and pay 8% simple interest to Ms W.
Ms W accepted the investigators outcome, but Monzo didnt agree. It said that the payments 
approval page would have looked the same as when Ms W had made payments in the past. 
It reiterated that the payment was authorised in Ms Ws banking app and that she had 
breached her account terms by allowing her friend access.
The matter was passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman. I asked Monzo to provide 
evidence of what it would have looked like on Ms Ws app, including whether there was a 
warning or anything to make it clear that the payment being approved was outgoing rather 
than incoming, but it hasnt responded by the deadline provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding the complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator. 
I dont think it was fair for Monzo to treat the payment as authorised in the circumstances for 
the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms W has been the victim of a scam. 
Ms W was with her friend the entire time and aware of her actions, so Im persuaded 
that its more likely than not Ms W would have taken the same steps herself had her 
friend passed over the matter to her once the buyer (scammer) was in contact.
Under the relevant Payment Services Regulations (2017), to authorise a payment 
consent must be given in the form and procedure agreed between the payment 
service provider and payment service user. Here thats set out in the terms and 
conditions applicable to Ms Ws account.
The disputed payment appears to be an online card payment to a third-party 
merchant. The relevant account terms explain what information a merchant may 
need in order to take such a payment. 
Neither Ms W nor her friend shared Ms Ws card information / address with the 
scammer for the purpose of making a payment. Based on the information available, it 
doesnt appear they gave this information to the merchant directly either.
The terms and conditions also list how a customer can give consent which includes 
confirming it in the Monzo banking app.
Ms W says neither she or her friend could differentiate in the app whether she was 
being asked to approve a debit or a credit payment. Both Ms W and her friend 
thought the payment was crediting her account.
Monzo hasnt provided any evidence of what Ms W or her friend would have seen at 
the time in order for me to consider how clear this would have been.
So, given Ms W (and her friend) didnt take the steps with the merchant to make a 
payment or know they were approving an outgoing payment in Ms Ws app, I dont 
think it would be fair to conclude that the payment was authorised in the 
circumstances.
Having concluded the payment was unauthorised, the starting point under the relevant 
regulations is that Ms W is entitled to a full refund.
The payment was made to an online merchant and so its likely (on the evidence available) 
that it was used to purchase something. Without information or evidence to the contrary, I 
think its more likely than not that this was a distance contract. As such, under the relevant 
regulations, there are no further tests to apply to determine whether Ms W is entitled to a 
refund. 
Monzo has said it thinks Ms W has acted negligently, but this is not something the relevant 
regulations include as a reason not to provide Ms W with a refund in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Ms W likely breached her account terms and conditions by giving her phone to 
her friend with her Monzo banking app open. But Ive explained above why I dont think that 
has affected how the events unfolded. So, I dont think it would be fair in the circumstances 
to depart from the relevant regulations and override Monzos obligation to provide a refund.
So, I think Monzo should provide Ms W with a refund and pay her interest at 8% simple to recognise the time shes been without these funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Monzo Bank Ltd should do the 
following:
1. Refund the disputed payment to Ms W.
2. Apply W 8% simple interest on this amount (in point 1) from the date the payment 
was made to the date of settlement and pay this to Ms W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman