DRN-3718007
The complaint
Mrs B, through her representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mrs B took two loans and using information from both parties, here is a brief loan table: 
Loan Date approved Amount Repayment Repaid 
1 February 2018 £1,400 £125.69 x 24 
months£663 (rounded) 
refinanced into 
loan 2 
2 2 May 2019 £3,050 £238.58 x 36 
months 26 April 2021
After Everyday Lending had responded to Mrs Bs complaint with its final response letter 
(FRL), her complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and using the information she had she 
considered that Everyday Lending should put things right for Mrs B for loan 2. This was 
based on the figures she had and that she did not think Mrs B was able to afford all her 
credit commitments, her regular living expenses, and the Everyday Lending loan 2 as well. 
Everyday Lending disagreed and said that it had used a higher figure than that used by our 
adjudicator for Mrs Bs living expenses, and so its calculations at the time it lent to Mrs B 
were more accurate. And that although the credit file showed that Mrs B had been up to her 
limit on the overdraft facility she had on her current account (£2,499 on a £2,500 limit) when 
it had reviewed her actual copy bank account statements for April 2019 and the position was 
far better than that. Everyday Lending said that it disagreed with our adjudicators calculation 
of the anticipated cost to Mrs B of 5% of her total debt of £5,800 (credit cards, mail order and 
overdraft facility) as that was not correct in relation to the overdraft figure. 
It added: 
Also that overdrawn balance is only a snapshot of 1 day in the month so I feel using 
having a 5% repayment calculation on the full balance is inaccurate.
And it went on to add: 
we had already accounted for [mail order] £50.76, [home credit loan] £15 and Past due 
Credit £5.00 in the affordability ( see the go-live document).
So Everyday Lending is saying that our adjudicators interpretation of the figures was 
incorrect and Mrs B  was able to afford loan 2. 
Our adjudicator responded to correct a point which was that the £70 she had mentioned in 
her view should have been clearer and that it was a reference to the Council Tax arrears of 
£71 a month Mrs B was paying. 
And our adjudicator said that the overdraft figure was relevant as the Financial Ombudsman 
always looks at the credit search results as a snapshot of the overall situation. Our 
adjudicator said the results showed Mrs B was overdrawn on her current account by £2,499 
and it could have become a longer term product.
Mrs Bs representative had received the adjudicators view but the request for additional 
information about the period surrounding loan 1 has not been acted on. And it has not 
responded to accept or reject the adjudicators view. From this I take it that Mrs B and her 
representative are content with the outcome and the uphold for loan 2. And so, it seems that 
the first loan is not contested. No additional documentation has been received and so I have 
not reviewed loan 1 further. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending , each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mrs B would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs B would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday Lending  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending  to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending  had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending  to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
As I have outlined in the what happened part of the decision, I consider that loan 1 is 
uncontested and so I make no further findings on it. 
Loan 2 was a loan applied for to give Mrs B additional funds, to refinance loan 1 into loan 2 
and to pay off further payday loans she had acquired since the earlier payday loans had 
been paid off using loan 1 funds. 
Mrs B was coming back to Everyday Lending for more money - £3,050  and it was due to 
be repaid over three years which was a longer loan term than loan 1. This ought to have 
prompted Everyday Lending to carry out a full financial review of Mrs Bs situation before 
lending. 
The overall picture was of a customer who had let her financial situation deteriorate between 
applying for loan 1 and coming back for more money at loan 2. Mrs B had taken additional 
high-cost credit loans and payday loans since obtaining loan 1. She had Council Tax 
arrears. Everyday Lending has sent to me the account notes relating to loan 2 in which is 
noted that Mrs B was in arrangements to pay with some of her lenders too. There was a 
payment to a debt collector and there was evidence of payments to at least one betting or 
gaming website. I accept that it looked lowlevel but still those payments were being made 
several times a week. 
So although on a pounds and pence calculation the loan may have looked just about 
affordable, the reality was that Mrs B was regularly taking these other high-cost credit loans 
out and having consolidated her debts once with loan 1, was coming back to Everyday 
Lending to do the same thing. 
Everyday Lending used the new loan 2 funds to settle its own loan 1 and even thought the 
outstanding balance was £560 it charged Mrs B interest and penalty interest which meant 
that the settlement figure for its own loan was £662.95. That was then added to the new loan 
amount of £3,050 which attracted its own interest. 
And I have not seen any evidence that Everyday Lending sought to settle the other two high 
cost loans Mrs B said she had wanted to consolidate  one with a  balance of £229.23 and 
the other with a balance of £970.23. It credited Mrs B with remaining loan funds of £2,387.05 
and left Mrs B to utilise that money to reduce her debt commitment. So, it did not gain 
confirmation that Mrs B would do that. I see that it got information from her about the figures 
to settle those other loans but no confirmation she was going to do it.And if Mrs B had paid off those two other larger loans with the new loan 2 money, that still 
left Mrs B with three credit cards, a mail order account and HMRC repayments plus Council 
tax arrears. And a home credit loan. And two other repayment plans. 
So  whether the figures added up or not I think that this was too close for comfort from 
Mrs B, and there was a significant risk that Mrs B did not use the £2,387 paid to her to pay 
down debt thereby exacerbating her position. And if she had paid down the other debt that 
still left her with a  great deal of debt of about £3,300 plus the new loan 2 with Everyday. 
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Everyday Lending should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 2,
treat any payments made by Mrs B in respect of this loan as payments towards the 
capital amount of £3,050,
If Mrs B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
her with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending  should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mrs B.
remove any adverse information about Loan 2 from Mrs Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending  to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending  must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part and I direct that Everyday Lending 
limited does as I have outlined in the putting things right section of the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman