DRN-2426294
The complaint
Mr U complains that Jones Financial (Norwich) Limited failed to deal with a proposed 
transfer of pension benefits in a timely manner. As a result Mr U says that he suffered a 
reduction in the transfer value of his pension savings, and has lost out on investment 
returns.
What happened
Mr U held some of his pension savings in a defined benefit scheme provided by a former 
employer. He had taken advice from Jones Financial in 2017 about his entire pension 
provision. On 10 May 2018 Mr U sent an email to Jones Financial explaining that he wished 
to transfer some of his defined pension benefits to a personal pension. He intended to use 
part of those transferred savings as the deposit on a buy-to-let property, drawing down the 
remainder of the transferred pension savings each year to fund his repayments on a 
short-term six year mortgage.
Jones Financial called Mr U the following day. Jones Financial says that it explained to Mr U 
on that call that it was unlikely to be able to recommend the proposed course of action. But a 
meeting was arranged for three weeks later when the proposal could be discussed in more 
detail.
Each partys recollections of the outcome of that meeting differ. Mr U says that it was agreed 
that Jones Financial would undertake some further analysis of the proposal and get back to 
him with some final advice. Jones Financial says that Mr U agreed to produce a more 
comprehensive business plan on which it could base its further consideration of the 
proposal.
Mr U had obtained a transfer value quotation for these occupational pension benefits on 
31 March 2018. That quotation was valid for a period of three months and expired on 
30 June 2018. It appears that there was no further contact between Mr U and 
Jones Financial before the expiry of the guaranteed transfer quotation.
In August 2018 Mr U wrote to Jones Financial to advise that he had now entered into an 
arrangement with an alternative advisor, and so no longer wished to use its services. 
I understand the new advisor treated Mr U as an insistent client and started the process to 
transfer his pension savings. But, by that time, the guarantee had expired and the transfer 
value was reduced. So Mr U decided to delay the transfer. The transfer was completed the 
following year  although the transfer value was still less than the original quotation.
Mr Us complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He concluded that 
Jones Financial had acted in line with the regulators expectations when declining to support 
Mr Us proposal. And from the evidence he had seen he couldnt reasonably conclude that 
Jones Financial was responsible for the transfer not taking place within the guarantee 
period. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr U didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr U and by Jones Financial. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to 
help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
As our investigator has explained, the regulator requires firms to show a great deal of 
caution when considering their advice on transfers such as these. In particular it requires 
firms to use a starting point of an assumption that a transfer from a defined benefit scheme 
is unlikely to be suitable. And it goes on to say that such a transfer should only be 
recommended if a firm can clearly demonstrate that it is the clients best interests. So I think 
Jones Financial was entirely right to be concerned about the proposal that Mr U asked it to 
consider.
Mr U has told us that he didnt expect Jones Financial to agree with his proposal. He instead 
hoped that the firm would agree to facilitating the transfer on the basis that he was an 
insistent client. And from what I understand, that was the basis on which Mr Us transfer was 
arranged by the new firm of advisors. However, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
that Mr U made Jones Financial aware that this was how he wished to proceed. Nor have 
I seen anything that makes me think Jones Financial would have been willing to facilitate the 
transfer on that basis for Mr U.
Jones Financial doesnt record the phone calls it has with clients, so I have no way of 
knowing how the discussion with Mr U on 11 May proceeded. But from Mr Us own testimony 
it certainly seems that Jones Financial didnt indicate its support for his proposal. And since 
there is also no recording of the meeting that took place on 31 May I cannot be sure how 
those discussions progressed. And ultimately what was agreed at that meeting will decide 
this complaint.
As I said earlier, the regulator would expect Jones Financial to carefully analyse the benefits 
of the transfer based on contemporaneous evidence. Mr U has said himself that he provided 
little to the firm in terms of a business plan supporting his proposal. He said that he only 
gave Jones Financial some information about house prices, and house rental prices. So 
I think it unlikely that Jones Financial was in a position to provide Mr U with any advice 
regarding his proposal at that stage. It therefore seems reasonable, as Jones Financial 
suggests, that it might have asked Mr U for some further information and analysis to support 
any recommendation it was being asked to make.
The value of Mr Us pension benefits meant that he was required to have received advice 
from a qualified financial advisor before any transfer could take place. I accept that advice 
didnt need to be supportive of the transfer  as I have said earlier Mr U did later proceed as 
an insistent client. But nevertheless Jones Financial would have needed to provide Mr U with 
some analysis of his proposal, and it could only have done that based on information he 
would need to provide.So on balance I think it more likely that the meeting concluded as Jones Financial has 
suggested. I think Mr U would have been asked for further information on his proposal so 
that Jones Financial could make a formal recommendation, albeit most likely one that would 
have suggested Mr U should leave his pension benefits with the existing scheme.
Jones Financial has said that when it didnt hear anything further from Mr U it assumed he 
had decided to not proceed with the proposal. Mr U says that it would have been appropriate 
for Jones Financial to chase him for the missing information. And had it done so it would 
have prevented the quotation he had received for the value of the transfer expiring. 
But ultimately I agree with our investigator that it would have been just as appropriate for 
Mr U to have chased Jones Financial if he were expecting information before proceeding 
with the transfer. Mr U had gathered the information from the pension scheme about the 
transfer value that was being offered. And he held the paperwork that clearly showed the 
point at which the guarantee expired. In my view it was Mr U who was driving this process 
and so had the responsibility to ensure that it was completed within the necessary 
timescales.
I do not know whether Jones Financial would have agreed to facilitate the transfer for Mr U 
on the basis that he was an insistent client. But I havent seen anything that would persuade 
me that was actually what Mr U asked of the firm. Instead, it seems to me that he was 
seeking the support of Jones Financial for his proposal. I think Jones Financial made it clear 
on 11 May that it was unlikely to give that support. And I havent seen anything that makes 
me think the later meeting gave Mr U an expectation that stance would change. It was 
therefore the responsibility of Mr U to either seek an alternative advisor at that stage, or 
specifically ask to be treated as an insistent client.
So in summary I dont think that Jones Financial has done anything wrong here and doesnt 
bear responsibility for the transfer not taking place within the guaranteed period. It follows 
that I dont uphold the complaint and therefore Jones Financial doesnt need to pay any 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Jones Financial (Norwich) Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman