DRN-3394882
The complaint
Mr G complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt let 
him know that the Woodford Patient Capital Trust (WPCT) invested in many of the same 
companies as the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF). He complains this meant that the 
WPCT was susceptible to any difficulties the WEIF might experience from redemptions, and 
this would affect the WPCTs performance. He said that if he had known this, he wouldnt 
have invested.  
What happened
Mr G had an execution only account with HLAM. In 2015, he invested in the WPCT, and 
made further investments in 2016. 
In 2019 the WEIF was suspended, and in October 2019 Mr G complained to HL that this was 
due to the overlapping investments between the WEIF and the WPCT. He said that HL 
ought to have let him know that was the case, and this was an additional risk that he was not 
prepared to take. 
HLAM looked into Mr Gs complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. In summary 
it said:
It didnt provide any advice to Mr G as he had an execution only account. 
It considered the information it provided to Mr G about the WPCT was fair, clear and 
not misleading. It also said that investments can be complex and overlap in several 
ways and it would be difficult to highlight all the risks investments might be exposed 
to, including overlapping holdings. 
In any event, it was not responsible for providing this additional information and this 
was something Mr G needed to research and establish for himself prior to investing. 
Furthermore, it said that it wouldnt have been possible to monitor this after the 
launch of the fund nor did it know that the manager of the WEIF was planning to 
invest in the same unquoted companies, as these were separate investments 
vehicles, with different investment strategies. 
It didnt think it was liable to Mr G for any investment losses he had sustained as a 
result of investing in the WPCT. 
Mr G remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In short, he didnt think the 
impact on the WPCT was as significant as Mr G had suggested, and he felt that the negative 
performance was most likely down to publicity around the fund manager more than anything 
else. The investigator concluded that HL had no control over what assets the WPCT 
invested in, and it wasnt unusual for there to be a degree of overlap between the assets 
invested in by different funds. Finally, he said that no-one knew that the WEIF would be 
suspended when it was, and so there was no additional warning or information that HL 
couldve given Mr G when he invested, because it wasnt available then. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said:
He didnt agree that just because he was an execution only client, HLAM didnt owe 
him a duty of care. He said he didnt think it was entitled to withhold negative 
information whilst selling investments like the WPCT. 
The reason he invested in the WPCT was because HLAM was extolling the virtues 
of the fund manager for investing in companies with great potential. 
He was aware that the WPCT invested in illiquid shares  but he said the key aspect 
was that he didnt know the WEIF would be investing in these same investments, and 
it might have a need to sell them quickly, so was not investing for the medium to long 
term. He said that if he had known there was an open ended fund that was investing 
in the same illiquid assets, which could well need to be the subject of a fire sale, he 
would not have invested in the WPCT. 
He disagreed that the WPCTs performance was to do with publicity around the fund 
manager, and instead said that it was all to do with the market value of the underlying 
unquoted investments which were devastatingly undermined by the fire sale of the 
same unquoted assets by WEIF. 
HL had a duty to ensure that consumers had all the information that it had, and it was 
not entitled to select what not to provide. HL withheld the fact that the same illiquid 
underlying investments were being made by the WEIF. 
He concluded by reiterating that if he had known the above, he would not have invested in 
the WEIF. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr G had an execution only account with HLAM. This meant that HLAM 
only had limited obligations towards him in terms of the investments it sold on its platform, 
and these did not include ensuring these investments were suitable, met his needs or were 
aligned to his risk tolerance. 
Mr G says that HLAM failed to highlight that the WPCT invested in the same unquoted 
companies that the WEIF did. He alleges that HLAM had this information but did not share it 
with him when it promoted the investment to him. He also says that had he known this, he 
would not have invested in the WPCT because this wouldve represented an additional risk 
that he was unwilling to take. 
Ive considered Mr Gs complaint very carefully, but Im not persuaded HLAM has done 
anything wrong. 
HLAM was required to ensure that the promotions and communications it directed towards 
Mr G, as one of its clients, were fair, clear and not misleading. But it was ultimately for Mr G 
himself to be aware of the investments he bought, what their strategy was or what holdings they invested in. 
Ive seen a factsheet of the WPCT from the time, and its quite clear to me that the presence 
of unquoted companies was always going to be a feature of the WPCT. I understand Mr G 
says that it isnt the unquoted companies themselves that was the problem, but the potential 
for those same companies to also have investment from the WEIF.
But this isnt something that HLAM wouldve had to research or be sure about. It isnt 
unlawful or inappropriate for two funds to invest in similar or even the same assets, and I 
agree with HLAM that any fund couldve invested in the same unquoted companies. I would 
only add that it seems to me that two funds managed by the same manager may be more 
likely to have a greater degree of overlap than two funds managed by two completely 
different managers. But this is information Mr G already had when he invested, and he was 
clearly prepared to take that risk when he did so. 
Furthermore, I note that Mr G remained invested despite updates from HL, in early 2019, 
about one particular unquoted company that both WEIF and WPCT were invested in. And in 
a further update in April 2019 HLAM noted that the WPCT had lost money since launch, and 
that whilst it could be used to diversify a portfolio, its higher risk and specialist nature meant 
that it should only form a small portion of it. 
Taking all this into account, including HLAMs obligations towards Mr G, Im not persuaded it 
needed to do anymore than what it did. I dont agree it was reasonable to have expected it to 
continuously review what assets the WPCT or the WEIF were investing in. Although I note 
above that it did highlight where there was overlap in relation to a specific holding, Im not 
persuaded HLAM needed to provide a running commentary of how these funds overlapped, 
if indeed they did to any significant degree. 
The reality is that as an execution only client, it was for Mr G to find out what his chosen fund 
invested in, and importantly, decide for himself whether he continued to be happy with the 
direction of that fund in subsequent years. As Ive said above, the possibility that the WPCT 
might invest in holdings which the WEIF also invested in was clear by virtue of them both 
being managed by the same fund manager  so Mr G couldve found out himself if he had 
wanted to. I accept this wouldve required a thorough level of investigation  but as an 
execution only client, this was Mr Gs responsibility, and not HLAMs. Given the importance 
Mr G is stating this had for him when he invested, in my view he had enough information at 
the time to consider looking into this in more detail before he decided to buy units in the 
WPCT  or to avoid this risk altogether by not investing in the WPCT. 
Furthermore, in subsequent years, in light of some of the commentary Ive outlined above 
from HLAM, he continued to be in a position to consider whether he was comfortable with 
the risk of overlap between the WPCT and the WEIF and, if necessary, make further 
enquiries or sell his holdings.  
For all these reasons, Im not persuaded HLAM had the responsibility Mr G ascribes to it. Im 
satisfied it shared relevant information with him about the WPCT such that he could make 
his own decision about whether to invest in it, and stay invested. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman