DRN-3085428
The complaint
Mr C complained to Aldermore Bank Plc having used their online banking service. It said he 
didnt have an account with them which caused significant distress and worry. 
What happened
Mr C logged onto Aldermores online banking service in May 2021. He wanted to view the 
ISA account he held with them. Having successfully logged on, Aldermores welcome screen 
said, You dont have any accounts.
The message worried Mr C. He had a significant balance held on this account and he 
thought it may have been lost as a result of a scam or other fraudulent act. So, he tried to 
contact Aldermore to resolve his problem. 
Some hours later, Mr C discovered that his ISA account details could be viewed and 
accessed under a different section of their online banking welcome screen. But he remained 
unhappy. He thought that Aldermores website was unclear and confusing. So, Mr C decided 
to complain to Aldermore.
Aldermore acknowledged Mr Cs complaint and said they would investigate. A few days 
later, they wrote to Mr C. They acknowledged his complaint and the problems hed 
experienced. Aldermore explained that the message on their online banking welcome screen 
related to any non-ISA accounts. They said the information about Mr Cs ISA account 
appeared under the ISA Summary part of the screen. The tab for this was next to the main 
Account Summary tab.
Aldermore said they were sorry to hear of the distress this caused and confirmed theyd 
raised Mr Cs observations with their Continuous Improvement Team. But they said that 
because Mr Cs ISA account was available to view, they did not uphold his complaint.
Mr C was unhappy with Aldermores response. He thought they should pay compensation 
for all the stress and worry. He said they already knew about the screen problem as this had 
been pointed out to them by other customers. Mr C said Aldermores response was 
unacceptable and theyd been negligent. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. During our investigators review, 
Aldermore offered Mr C £25 as a gesture of goodwill to settle his complaint. Our investigator 
thought Aldermores offer was fair in the circumstances.
Mr C disagreed. He wanted Aldermore to acknowledge theyd made a mistake and 
apologise for this. He also thought their offer was an insult. Mr C thought Aldermore should 
incur a penalty for their actions and believed that any compensation amount should be 
around £200. He asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Aldermore provided this service with a screen shot of the welcome screen that Mr 
C saw when he logged on to view his account in May 2021. The screen shows three distinct 
tabs with the headings Summary, ISA Summary and Closed Account/s. When Mr C first 
logged on, the default view was the Summary tab. The wording under that tab says 
Account Summary in bold type. Underneath this, it says You dont have any accounts. 
So, in isolation, I can completely understand why this might cause Mr C concern. Particularly 
when he was expecting to see his ISA account and balance.
The ISA Summary tab is shown immediately to the right of the Summary tab. So, 
although I have no personal experience of Aldermores online bank service, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that clicking on the ISA Summary tab may reveal details of any ISA 
account(s) held. Aldermore have explained this is the case. They said they list ISA accounts 
separately in their online banking service - this is their policy. 
Several hours after his first attempt, Mr C eventually discovered how to view his ISA 
account. This revealed that his account was still active, and his balance was confirmed to be 
what he expected. So, ultimately, it appears the information was always available if the 
correct tab was checked. Importantly, Mr C hadnt suffered any financial loss. But Mr C 
believes that Aldermores online banking service was misleading. 
Aldermore told this service that their online banking welcome screen hadnt changed for 
some considerable time. They told us that Mr C had previously called them in September 
2020 for assistance with his ISA account. At the time he was accessing his account using 
their online service. They also confirmed that Mr C did, at the time, successfully view his 
ISA. As part of Aldermores process, they record these calls and also retain screenshots of 
what was appearing on Mr Cs computer screen during the call. Theyve provided this 
service with a copy of that screenshot. Its clearly dated and shows exactly the same format 
and messages that appeared when Mr C tried to access his account again in May 2021. 
Mr C has insisted that the no accounts message hasnt appeared previously. Had it, he 
said he wouldve raised this with Aldermore. Given the information provided by Aldermore, 
Im persuaded that its more likely, than not, Mr C was presented with this screen in 
September 2020. I do realise its not possible to verify whether Mr C consciously noticed the 
no accounts message then. But Im satisfied he did successfully access his ISA details, 
despite this. 
Its not the role of this service to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or 
impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Cs experience with them.
I accept that Mr C found the message displayed on Aldermores internet banking screen 
misleading. Because of that, I appreciate why he reacted as he did in these circumstances. 
But I believe that Mr Cs ISA information was always available for him to view on another 
tab. So, while I appreciate that he will be very disappointed, I cant reasonably say that 
Aldermore have done anything wrong or acted unfairly here.
I think its relevant to also acknowledge that Aldermore acted on Mr Cs feedback by 
changing the message that appears on their account summary screen. I dont see this as an 
admission of any fault and believe this was the right thing to do here to help ensure that 
similar misunderstandings dont arise.
While I acknowledge Mr Cs strength of feeling here, I wont be upholding his complaint. 
Should Mr C decide to accept Aldermores £25 gesture of goodwill, I would urge him to 
contact them.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman