DRN-2238251
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has used the compensation 
from a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to reduce the debt it says Mr B 
still owes following completion of an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA).
What happened
In 2000 Mr B entered into an IVA. The IVA was completed in 2004.
RBS was party to the IVA.
In 2020 Mr B complained to RBS about a PPI policy he had been sold with a loan he took 
out in 1998. 
RBS agreed to uphold the complaint and offered compensation which Mr B accepted. But 
RBS used the compensation to reduce the debt it said was still owed by Mr B.
Mr B says that as the IVA has been completed, RBS should pay the compensation directly 
to him as other businesses had done. 
Our adjudicator thought RBS had acted fairly. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators findings 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the letter RBS sent to Mr B in January 2020. I can see that on page one it 
mentions the offer of £2,990.80. On page two the letter mentions that if Mr B had been party 
to an IVA  any payment would be made to the relevant account. And on the form which     
Mr B signed to accept the offer it was again stated that if Mr B had been in an IVA then any 
payment will be made to the relevant account. So I think RBS offer made it clear that it 
intended to use the compensation to offset any outstanding debt.
Mr B has told us there is no outstanding debt as all the debt with RBS was written off and 
does not exist following the completion of the IVA. 
Ive thought about this but when Mr B entered into the IVA, the debts he owed werent 
cancelled. And they werent cancelled when he completed the IVA in 2004. Mr B couldnt be 
chased for the debts. However, the debt he had with RBS still existed. 
RBS has shown us evidence that on completion of the IVA there remained a debt of 
£5,361.52. I think RBS can use the compensation to reduce this balance. In effect Mr B 
owes RBS the outstanding debt, and RBS owes Mr B a smaller amount of compensation for 
a mis-sold PPI policy. So I think its fair for RBS to set one against the other. 
Mr B has pointed out that other businesses that were party to the IVA have paid 
compensation arising from PPI directly to him. But each business is free to exercise its own 
commercial judgement, and in this case RBS has chosen to use the compensation to reduce 
the outstanding debt that still existed following the IVA. And I think its acted fairly in doing 
so.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has acted fairly when using the 
compensation from a mis-sold PPI to reduce Mr Bs outstanding debt. So I make no further 
award against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman