DRN-1978992
 
The complaint
Mr N says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr N had two loans with Satsuma which I have briefly summarised below.
Loan 
no.Start date End date No. 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly 
repayment
1 23/08/2018 01/03/2019 6 £100 £31.60
2 14/09/2019 31/10/2019 3 £150 £73.80
An adjudicator considered Mr Ns complaint but didnt think the loans had been provided 
irresponsibly. Mr N asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
 
Ive looked at the checks Satsuma carried out before lending to Mr N. For both loans 
Satsuma asked him to provide some information about his income and expenditure. 
Satsuma also carried out credit checks. For both loans Mr N said his monthly income was 
£1,700. For loan 1 Mr N said his monthly expenditure was £350 and for loan 2 he said it was 
£376. Satsuma slightly increased these expenditure figures by adding what it calls buffers 
and safeguards as part of its affordability assessment.
Ive also considered Satsumas credit checks, which contained no adverse information at the 
time of loan 1 and only some minor adverse information at the time of loan 2.
Based on what Ive seen I think Satsumas checks were proportionate and its decision to 
lend was reasonable. 
Ive taken into account that Mr N says he also had a credit card bill to pay  but given how 
much disposable income he indicated he had, I dont think this means the loans were 
unaffordable, or wouldve appeared unaffordable to Satsuma. Although Mr N may have had 
a £1,000 credit limit on his credit card, I do not think he wouldve been required to clear his 
whole balance every month  and if he was, this wasnt what he declared on his application 
to Satsuma.
For these reasons, I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Provident Personal Credit Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman