DRN-3351370
The complaint
Ms S complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to turn down her income protection claim. 
What happened
Ms S is covered under her employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is 
to provide an income in the event she cant work because of illness or injury. The scheme 
has a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In January 2020, Ms S stopped work. A claim was submitted to Unum, however, it turned 
down the claim as it didnt think Ms S met the policy definition of incapacity. Unhappy with 
this, Ms S brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Unums claims 
decision had been reasonable, based on the available medical evidence. 
Ms S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines incapacity as:
Unable by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation
For a claim to be payable, Ms S needs to show that she was unable to perform the main 
duties of her occupation due to illness throughout the deferred period (13 January 2020 to 
12 July 2020). Ive therefore considered the medical evidence. 
I see that Ms S regularly visited her GP throughout the deferred period. Sadly, a member of 
Ms Ss family had passed away in 2019, and her GP thought Ms S was having a 
bereavement reaction following this. In February 2020, the GP thought Ms S was 
experiencing stress and depression, though they noted that Ms S had been having 
counselling sessions which were helping, and it was thought Ms S was making progress. 
Though in May 2020, the GP said that Ms S had experienced some setbacks due to 
supporting other people. 
I appreciate that Ms S was signed off by her GP as being unfit to work throughout the 
deferred period, and I also note she was being treated with antidepressant medication. The 
GP later said that Ms S was lacking motivation and struggling with concentration and general 
functioning. Though as our investigator has explained, theres not much evidence from this 
time to explain how these symptoms impacted her, and why they prevented her from 
working. Although we know she had some counselling sessions, these seemed to be helping 
her.
I understand Ms S had arranged these counselling sessions herself, and so hadnt been 
referred by her GP. We asked Ms S to contact her counsellor and ask them for their opinion 
on her ability to work, however she didnt wish to do so.  
After Ms Ss counselling sessions ended, Ms Ss GP didnt refer her for any further 
secondary care during the deferred period. Unums company medical officer (CMO) is a 
consultant psychiatrist, and he thought this reflected that Ms Ss condition wasnt severe 
enough at the time to require specialist attention. After reviewing the medical evidence, 
Unums CMO was of the view that Ms S had experienced a grief reaction and stress, rather 
than depression. 
Overall, based on the limited medical evidence, I think it was reasonable for Unum conclude 
that the evidence didnt support that Ms S was experiencing significant impairments in her 
functional ability which meant she couldnt carry out the main duties of her role. I therefore 
find it was appropriate for Unum to turn down the claim. 
Ms S says her GP later did refer her for secondary care (to a psychiatric nurse), and that she 
had further counselling sessions. I also note that an occupational health adviser later found 
that she couldnt work because of her condition. However, I havent taken this evidence into 
account as this all took place after the deferred period ended. 
I note the policy says that if Unum declines a claim and the member doesnt return to work, a 
new claim can be submitted if the members condition worsens within a year from Unums 
decision. If Ms S thinks her condition did worsen in the year after 12 July 2020, she may 
wish to speak to her employer about asking Unum to consider a new claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman