DRN-3292221
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) wouldnt let him 
purchase a car theyd supplied him under a hire agreement, and that they charged him for 
damages following the return of the car.
What happened
On 1 May 2014, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a hire agreement with MBFS. 
The agreement was for 24 months, with an initial rental of £657 and 23 monthly rental 
payments of £219. Mr H said that it was always his intention to purchase the car when he 
was able to do so and, in 2016, he extended the hire agreement for a further 24 months.
MBFS initially refused to extend the hire agreement when Mr H asked to do this in 2018, and 
they asked him to return the car. Mr H wasnt happy with this, and asked MBFS to give him 
the opportunity to purchase the car. MBFS said they couldnt do this, but they agreed a 
further extension to the hire agreement.
The car was due to be returned in May 2020 and, because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) 
pandemic, MBFS initially offered Mr H a further 3-month extension to hire agreement. But 
then they told him that another extension wouldnt be permitted, and that the car needed to 
be returned. The car was collected from Mr H on 15 July 2020.
MBFS invoiced Mr H £2,000 for usage of the car between the end of the agreement and 
collection; and for damages to the car that fell outside their Vehicle Return Standards (VRS). 
Mr H wasnt happy with this and thought MBFS had misled him about being able to purchase 
the car. He complained to MBFS, who didnt think theyd done anything wrong. So, Mr H 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr H initially complained to MBFS about not being able to purchase the 
car, and MBFS responded to this complaint in April 2019. This response was clear that Mr H 
had six months in which to bring this issue to us for investigation, but he didnt do so until 29 
November 2020. So, this is out of time for us to consider. The investigator also said Mr H 
hadnt made us aware of any exceptional circumstances as to why he wasnt able to bring 
his complaint to us between April 2019 and November 2020, so this wasnt something were 
able to investigate.
The investigator said that MBFS shouldnt have written to Mr H in June 2020, offering him an 
extension to the hire agreement, if such an extension wasnt going to be possible because of 
the extensions Mr H had already had. And he thought they should compensate Mr H for this. 
But he said that the delay in collecting the car was as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, and 
this was outside of MBFSs control. And, because Mr H had used the car during this delay, 
he thought it was only reasonable that he paid for this. So, he didnt think the extra days 
usage charge should be waived.
With regards to the damage to the car, the investigator said that the damage to the seat 
coverings and some of the bodywork damage fell outside the VRS, so MBFS were acting 
reasonably by charging Mr H for this. But he didnt think that the damage to the rear bumper, 
LHR door, LHF and LHR alloy wheels were outside the VRS, so he thought that MBFS 
should waive these charges.
So, the investigator recommended that MBFS should reduce the damage charges by £580 
and pay Mr H an additional £100 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2022, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate complaints 
about it. 
Given the comments from both parties, the only points of contention that remain are the 
damage charges and the matter of any compensation. As such, my decision will focus of 
these points.
Ive seen a copy of the hire agreement, which Mr H signed on 1 May 2014. Under the 
heading Vehicle Condition Terms  Please Read, and the subheading Damage, the 
agreement said you will maintain the vehicle in a condition which is consistent with the 
[VRS] which form part of this agreement. You will find a copy of the [VRS] in your welcome 
pack. A copy of the VRS was also attached to this document and explains what level of 
damage is and isnt acceptable.
So, Im satisfied that Mr H was reasonably aware of what was acceptable damage to the car, 
and when hed be charged.
Ive seen a copy of the report completed by the collection agent on 15 July 2020. This report 
details the following damage to the car, and what MBFS were charging for this:
1. damage to LHF alloy wheel - £85
2. damage to LHR alloy wheel - £85
3. damage to RHR alloy wheel - £85
4. damage to RHF alloy wheel - £85
5. scratches to front bumper - £210
6. scratches to LHR door - £210
7. broken rear bumper centre moulding - £76.59
8. scratches to rear bumper - £210
9. dent to RHR quarter panel - £195
10. cut to RHF seat cover - £218
This report was also supported by photographs and a video of the damage. However, after 
considering Mr Hs challenge, VWFS removed that charges for the damage to the RHF and 
RHR alloy wheels as the damage was not evident.
Ive reviewed the photographs and video of the damage to the car in line with the VRS 
confirmed in the agreement Mr H signed on 1 May 2014. And I agree that the damage to the 
front bumper, the damage to the rear bumper centre moulding, the dent in the RHR quarter 
panel, and the cut to the RHF seat, all fall outside of the VRS. So, Im satisfied that MBFS 
acted reasonably by charging for this.With regards to the scratches to the LHR door, the damage to the door itself is minor. And I 
agree with the investigator that this doesnt fall outside the VRS. However, the photographs 
and video of this damage also show scratches down to the bare metal on what I think would 
be better described as the LHR quarter panel. But, from what Ive seen, the inspection report 
classifies this as being part of the LHR door damage, and its not referred to elsewhere in the 
report. This damage is outside of the VRS, so I think MBFS are reasonable in charging Mr H 
for this.
I also disagree with the investigator about the scratches to the rear bumper. The 
photographs and video clearly show this as grey marks on a silver car. So, Im satisfied this 
damage has gone through the topcoat, and the primer is exposed. This is also outside of the 
VRS, so MBFS are acting reasonably be charging for this.
In their comments on the investigators view, MBFS have highlighted the damage to the LHF 
and LHR alloy wheels. Ive noted this, and Ive also noted that the inspection report, unlike 
the other damage to the car, doesnt highlight this damage. Ive compared this damage to 
the RHF and RHR wheels. And, from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the damage 
to all four wheels is comparable. 
MBFS have chosen to waive the damage charges relating to the RHF and RHR alloy 
wheels, as they dont think this falls outside of the VRS. Given this, I dont think its fair that 
they charge Mr H for the comparable damage to the LHF and LHR alloy wheels. So, I agree 
with the investigator that these charges should also be waived.
MBFS have acknowledged that they told Mr H he could extend the agreement by three 
months in May 2020, when they knew this wasnt the case because of the extensions 
already granted. Offering Mr H this option, then withdrawing it, and asking him for the 
immediate return of the car, wouldve caused Mr H some distress and inconvenience. And I 
agree that he should be compensated for this.
I also think that the inconsistent approach MBFS have applied to the comparable damage to 
the alloy wheels had also caused Mr H some distress and confusion.
Im therefore minded to ask MBFS to:
1. reduce the damage charges by £170 (the amount charged for the damage to the LHF 
and LHR alloy wheels); and
2. pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Responses
Mr H asked if we could reconsider the issue of MBFS repeatedly telling him he had the 
option to purchase the car, when this wasnt the case, as he suffered a significant financial 
loss because of the situation. He also confirmed I do not appeal at the time as I doubtful 
{sic} anything would come of it.
Mr H also asked if this complaint could be reviewed again. And, if not, could we enforce a 
£20 a month payment plan as part of the final decision, as this is the most he can afford.
MBFS accepted my provisional decision without further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons already given, Mr Hs complaint about not being able to purchase the car 
isnt one we cant consider. MBFS provided their final response to this complaint in April 
2019, and Mr H had six months from the date of this letter to bring it to us for investigation. In 
his comments on my provisional decision Mr H has confirmed that he was aware of this but 
chose not to do so because he didnt think it would be successful.
While Im unable to comment on what mightve happened if Mr H had brought his complaint 
to us in time, he didnt do so. And now, for the reasons hes already been given, its now too 
late. As such, I wont be able to consider this issue as part of my final complaint.
Mr H has also asked for his complaint to be re-reviewed. We have a two-stage process. The 
complaint was considered by the investigator as the first stage in the process, and the 
investigator issued his opinion. But Mr H didnt agree with this and asked for his complaint to 
move to the second stage. 
As part of the second stage, because I didnt agree with the investigators opinion, I issued 
my provisional decision. And Mr H had the opportunity to comment on this. This decision will 
complete the second stage. As its a final decision, there is no further opportunity for the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to review matters.
Finally, Mr H has asked for us to enforce a payment plan as part of the decision. This is 
something we cant do as, if a final decision is accepted, it becomes legally binding. And Mr 
Hs financial situation may change in the future, which may result in the payment plan 
needing to be altered  something that wouldnt be possible if it formed part of the decision.
However, if Mr H is in financial difficulties, Id expect MBFS to follow the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys guidelines and treat him with consideration and forbearance. And Id expect them 
to appropriately consider Mr Hs request for a payment plan.
So, for these reasons, Mr Hs comments dont change my view.
Putting things right
I remain satisfied that the inconsistent approach MBFS have applied to the comparable 
damage to the alloy wheels caused Mr H some distress and confusion. Therefore, MBFS 
must:
1. reduce the damage charges by £170 (the amount charged for the damage to the LHF 
and LHR alloy wheels); and
2. pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Hs complaint. that Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman