DRN-3058860
The complaint
Mr N has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) caused damage to his 
home during work under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr N had no heating or hot water, so he contacted British Gas. An engineer visited and 
topped up the radiators and boiler pressure. A couple of weeks later Mr N contacted British 
Gas again because he only had intermittent heating and hot water. An engineer visited and 
said British Gas would need to send a plumber as there was a possible leak under the floor. 
However, when Mr N tried to book the plumber, he was told British Gas itself needed to do 
this. 
British Gas continued to send engineers, who continued to tell Mr N he needed a plumber. 
British Gas then agreed to pay for Mr N to arrange his own plumber, as it wasnt possible to 
send a plumber within a reasonable timescale.
Mr N complained to British Gas about the issues with arranging a plumber and because he 
said British Gas actions had resulted in damage to the communal parts of the property he 
lived in. When British Gas replied it said each time the engineer had visited he had been 
unable to find any leaks and had said a plumber needed to visit. British Gas had chased this 
several times, but when a plumber couldnt attend in a reasonable time it agreed to pay for a 
third party to fix the leak. The damage was the result of the leak, so wasnt covered. It said 
Mr N would need to go through his home insurance provider and if his insurer felt British Gas 
was liable, it could make contact. British Gas paid for the plumbing repair and also offered 
£100 compensation.
When Mr N complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
the damage was caused by the water leak, so British Gas wasnt responsible for putting right 
the damage. She thought the way British Gas resolved the complaint, and the compensation 
offered, was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mr N didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require British Gas to do anything further and for largely the same 
reasons as our investigator. I will explain why.
Mr N had an issue with his hot water and heating, so British Gas sent an engineer. I think 
there are a range of reasons why heating and hot water problems can happen and so can 
understand why the engineer dealt with the problem in the way he did at the first visit. As this 
didnt resolve the issue, I think it was also reasonable for the engineer to say at the second 
visit that a plumber needed to visit. Clearly there were issues with a plumber visiting, so I 
think it was fair that British Gas agreed to pay for a third-party engineer to fix the leak, which 
appears to have resolved the problem, and also offered some compensation.
Mr N has said British Gas was responsible for the damage in the communal area. The 
damage was the result of the leak, which British Gas didnt cause. British Gas policy also 
said it didnt cover damage as the result of water leaks. However, Ive thought about whether 
British Gas made the damage worse because of what happened, including the issues with 
arranging a plumber. Having done so, I think its difficult to conclude with any certainty that it 
did, even if the extent of the damage only became visible while there were ongoing issues 
with British Gas sending a plumber. British Gas suggested to Mr N that he could make a 
claim under his home insurance and if his home insurer thought British Gas had some 
responsibility for the damage that it could raise it with British Gas. I think that was a 
reasonable suggestion from British Gas in the circumstances.
So, thinking about what happened, I dont require British Gas to do anything further. I 
understand Mr N didnt accept the offer of £100 compensation. I leave it to Mr N to decide if 
he now wants to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that British Gas Insurance Limited 
doesnt need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman