DRN-3358922
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has removed the fee waiver from her Gold Service 
packaged bank account (PBA). She would like the waiver reinstated.
What happened
Mrs W opened this PBA in 1999 and has had the monthly fee waived provided she kept a 
certain balance in the account. In June 2021 Lloyds wrote to her to let her know it was 
removing the fee waiver from these accounts and that customers would have to pay going 
forward if they wanted to keep the account. From September 2021 it began charging a 
monthly fee of £14.95.
Mrs W complained to Lloyds, saying it was unfair of it to change the terms of her account, 
and that she should have the waiver reinstated. Lloyds did not accept that, so Mrs W brought 
her complaint to us.
The adjudicator thought Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong, which Mrs W didnt agree with. 
So she asked an ombudsman to look at her case.
I will only be considering the issue of the fee waiver removal, not the original sale of the 
account in 1999. I understand that Mrs W may be raising concerns with Lloyds about the 
sale separately, but as yet it doesnt appear to have had the chance to consider that and 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding the complaint and Ill explain why.
I entirely appreciate Mrs Ws annoyance and irritation that the fee waiver is no longer being 
offered by Lloyds. However, Lloyds is entitled to make alterations to the terms and 
conditions of accounts, provided it notifies customers. It did that, as Mrs W confirms. 
Customers are then entitled to effectively cancel the contract by taking their business 
elsewhere if the new terms and conditions arent acceptable to them.
Mrs W says she was given an undertaking to provide benefits free for lifeupon opening 
the account in 1999. I accept its possible that a Lloyds staff member said that, or at least 
gave that impression. However, it wouldnt be proportionate or reasonable for me to require 
Lloyds to make an exception to its legitimate commercial decision solely for Mrs W based on 
what an employee may have said 23 years ago.
Lloyds did what it needed to when it notified Mrs W of the upcoming changes to her account. 
So whilst I acknowledge her disappointment, Im unable to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt 
need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman