DRN-3688321
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has provided him with the service it should have and 
decided to close his accounts. 
What happened
Mr G received a text message from Lloyds Bank on 4 April saying his accounts would be 
closed. He called Lloyds Bank and explained his health conditions and situation and says he 
was told the account closure only related to his second account that had a deficit balance on 
and that he could set up a payment plan which he understood would mean the account 
wouldnt be closed. On the call Mr G was offered £25 compensation which he requested be 
paid to clear his deficit balance. 
Mr G then received a further message about his account being closed and was unable to log 
into his accounts. He called Lloyds Bank again and was told the £25 compensation had 
been paid into his other account. He was told to call back the next day which he did. On this 
call he was told the account closure applied to both his accounts and was due to his account 
management. Mr G raised a complaint about the account closures and the service he had 
been provided noting he had spent several hours on calls.
Lloyds Bank provided a final response dated 12 April 2022. It acknowledged that £25 
compensation was paid to the wrong account and apologised for the length of time Mr G had 
spent on calls. It said a cheque for £70 would be sent as compensation. It didnt uphold 
Mr Gs complaint about his account closures and said its account review team had sent a 
letter giving notice of the closures on 4 April 2022.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that it was a commercial decision for 
Lloyds Bank as to whether it continued to provide banking services to Mr G to and as it had 
provided Mr G with two months notice of the account closures it had acted in line with its 
terms and conditions. He noted the conflicting information Mr G had received and the 
extended periods Mr G had spent on the telephone to Lloyds Bank but thought the 
compensation offered was reasonable.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear of the experience Mr G has had and can appreciate why receiving a 
text about his account closures would have been particularly upsetting. Mr G has explained 
his health issues and I can understand that things are particularly hard at present given the 
cost of living increases. However, I can only uphold this complaint if I find that Lloyds Bank 
has done something wrong and not done enough to put this right.
As our investigator explained, it is a commercial decision for Lloyds Bank as to who it 
continues to provide banking services too. In this case it explained that following a review of 
Mr Gs account management it was decided that his accounts would be closed. I understand 
this was upsetting but having looked at the information provided, Mr G had been overdrawn 
on his accounts for extended periods of time and while he had been notified about this the 
issues had continued. Mr G hadnt requested assistance and I do not have anything to 
suggest that Mr G was treated unfairly. 
In the account terms and conditions, it sets out that accounts can be closed with two months 
notice. Lloyds Bank wrote to Mr G in April 2022 to provide him with this notice of account 
closure. This allowed Mr G time to sort out alternative banking facilities. As Lloyds Bank 
acted in line with the account terms and conditions, I do not find I can say it did anything 
wrong.
While I do not find that Lloyds Bank did anything wrong by notifying Mr G of his account 
closures, it didnt provide the service it should have when he made contact about this. I note 
that Lloyds Bank has accepted this and paid Mr G a total of £95 compensation. I have 
considered whether this is reasonable in this case. 
Mr G was initially led to believe on the 4 April call that only one of his accounts was going to 
be closed and that this could be prevented if he set up a payment plan. This information 
wasnt correct and the following day he was told both his accounts would be closed. While 
this will have been upsetting for Mr G I note that the correct information was provided on the 
day after Mr Gs initial call and a letter was sent to confirm the situation regarding his 
account closure. Mr G spent an extended period of time on calls and being placed on hold 
while he tried to understand the situation on his accounts and whether the closure could be 
avoided. This caused him inconvenience and would have been distressing as I understand 
he had to go through is personal situation on several occasions. He was initially offered £25 
compensation which he accepted and requested it be paid to a certain account. This amount 
was paid but to the wrong account.
I have considered the impact of the mistakes Lloyds Bank made and the time Mr G spent on 
calls. Against this I have acknowledged that the correct information and a response to 
Mr Gs concerns were provided in a timely way. Taking all this into account I think the £95 
compensation paid by Lloyds Bank to Mr G for the issues he experienced is reasonable.
In conclusion, I do not required Lloyds Bank to do anything further to settle this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman