DRN-2256683
The complaint
Mrs S complains Tesco Underwriting Limited undervalued her car when she claimed on her
car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Ss car was involved in an accident near her home. Tesco collected the car and took it
to a garage to be inspected. Because of the extent of the damage to the car it was deemed a
total loss. Tesco made an offer to Mrs S for the value of her car. Because Mrs Ss car had
higher than average mileage and some pre-existing damage to the side Tesco made some
deductions to the value it gave.
Mrs S didnt think what Tesco had offered was enough, she said her car was worth more
than theyd offered and said there arent many cars available which are the same make and
model as hers. She said shed travelled a long way to buy a replacement car and had to pay
more than Tesco had offered. As Mrs S wasnt happy, she complained to Tesco.
Tesco reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said theyd used motor trade guides
to value Mrs Ss car and the deductions made were in line the Financial Ombudsman
Services approach. Mrs S wasnt happy with Tescos response and brought her complaint
here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 September 2020 where I said: 
Mrs Ss policy says in the event her car is a total loss then Tesco will pay her the market
value. It defines market value as: the cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type,
specification, mileage and condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
The engineers report provided by Tesco says one trade guide gave a value of £9,400, this is
for a car with average mileage of 58,000 miles. As Mrs Ss car had 90,406 miles at the time
of loss Tesco deducted £1,010, as they thought this was the amount the higher mileage
would impact on the value. Tescos engineer also noted there was slight pre-accident
damage to Mrs Ss car. Theyve valued this at £400 to repair and have deducted 50% of the
repair cost from the value. Mrs Ss car also had additional extras which increased the value,
because of this Tesco added £440 to the valuation and after the deductions and additions,
Tesco offered £8,634 to Mrs S.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use
relevant trade guides. I find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of
sales prices. Im also satisfied that in this case the trade guides are the fairest way to value
Mrs Ss car.
When looking at valuations for Mrs Ss car, the three guides I looked at gave market values
of £9,050, £8,967 and £7,799. As the third valuation is out of line, I find it less persuasive, so
it wouldnt be fair to include it. The remaining two values give a higher value than Tescos
engineer and as these guides have taken into account the make, model, specification,
mileage and extras on Mrs Ss car, I think these values are a fairer starting point. As the two
values are different, I think its reasonable to take an average of the two as a fair value,
which is £9,008.50.
Tesco said they have re-run the trade guides recently and the value of Mrs Ss car has
increased. Because of this Tesco doesnt think its fair our service uses the values given in
the guides as theyre produced several months after the loss. Ive considered this but Im not
persuaded Tescos value is fair and reasonable to use. This is because Tesco havent
provided us copies of the values they obtained originally, they have only told us what the
value were. As Im unable to see them I cant say whether the value they got at the time are
accurate. It also appears Tesco have made deductions and additions to these values outside
of the trade guides but havent explained how they reached these figures. So even if Tesco
did provide them now, Im not satisfied theyd persuade me those values are accurate as
they havent included the correct mileage or additional extras.
Ive also considered the previous poor repair Tescos engineer valued at £400 to rectify. The
engineer has said 1/Previous repairs to the o/s/r wing;-£400. I have adjusted the value by
£200 to account for 50% of the remedial repair costs necessary to reinstate the vehicle to a
retail condition in line with the FOS guidelines. Tesco has supported this statement with a
picture showing the rear bumper, which was dislodged because of the accident. In the
picture you can see some filler has been used by where the light fits to the car. While Im
satisfied there is filler used and the repair doesnt seem to be of a standard youd expect,
Tesco havent done enough show why it would cost £400 to rectify, or that it was needed.
Im therefore not satisfied its fair and reasonable for Tesco to make a deduction for this.
Mrs S responded with questions about the pre-existing damage, she said while she wasnt 
happy with my provisional decision, she accepted the outcome. Tesco responded and didnt 
accept it. Tesco provided screen shots of when their valuation had been run and also 
queried that wed previously said it was okay to make the deduction for the pre-existing 
damage.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Tescos response, but its not persuaded me to change my decision. I say 
this because while I can see the figure Tesco has come to it appears the mileage deduction 
has been made manually. Tesco also havent provided any explanation as to how they 
reached that figure for the mileage. Im therefore persuaded the values given by the two 
trade guides in my provisional decision are a fairer valuation for Mrs Ss car. So I wont be 
departing from the figures used in my provisional decision. 
Ive also considered Tescos point about previously been told it was okay to deduct the pre-
existing damage. Upon further review of the file it was unclear why Tesco was making that 
deduction for the reasons listed in my provisional decision. As Ive not been provided any 
new evidence to persuade me to depart from that I wont be changing my decision.  
I understand Mrs S isnt in agreement with the comments made in my provisional decision 
about the pre-existing damage. However, as Ive said its not fair and reasonable for Tesco 
to make the deduction, I see no reason to go into that point further. 
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Mrs S £9,008.50, subject 
to any excesses, for the market value of her car. 
Tesco Underwriting Limited should also add 8% Simple interest per year to the additional 
amount it pays. If Tesco Underwriting Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman