DRN-1943777
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1994 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mrs A and Mr B say Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr B took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They 
complain they didnt know PPI had been added to their mortgage account.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mrs A and Mr B disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
They restated they didnt know they had PPI; BOS had not shown the policy was optional; 
they had other sources of income and good employee benefits  so they conclude they did 
not need PPI.
The PPI cover was split in equal 50/50 shares between Mrs A and Mr B. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As and Mr Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
BOS should have made Mrs A and Mr B aware they had a choice in buying the policy. They 
say they were not even aware the policy had been added to their mortgage.
Neither BOS nor Mrs A and Mr B have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising given that the sale took place around 26 years ago. But it does mean I have 
limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have happened, 
given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
I also noted the policy was tailored to cover both Mrs A and Mr B in equal shares - so I think 
their primary concern was that both salaries needed PPI support which means they probably 
were aware it had been added to the mortgage account. So overall, I think its more likely 
BOS made it clear to them they had a choice about the PPI, and they agreed to buy it to 
cover them both, although I can understand why they may not remember that now.
BOS says the sale was advised, but Mrs A and Mr B said PPI was not mentioned, so they 
think it was non-advised. I think it more likely there was some discussion about PPI  
particularly as it was tailored to give them both equal cover  so I will continue on the basis it 
was an advised sale.For advised sales, the PPI had to be suitable for both of them. I think the policy probably was 
suitable for them because they were both eligible to buy PPI, it seemed affordable at the 
time and they were not affected by the main things the policy didnt cover (the exclusions).
I noted both Mrs A and Mr B said they would have received employee benefits, and had 
savings, and other policies. But the policy could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months 
on a successful claim. This would have been in addition to and for longer than their 
employee benefits and would have saved their other incomes and savings for other 
expenses and other insurance events. The mortgage was a long term financial commitment 
secured on their home, and I think having the security that their mortgage repayments would 
be made if either was unable to work would have been important to them. So I dont think 
their employee benefits and other income and savings made the policy unsuitable.
Also for advised sales, the information had to be clear enough for Mrs A and Mr B to make 
an informed decision. 
Looking at everything Ive been told, its possible the information BOS gave Mrs A and Mr B 
about the PPI cost, benefits and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
having decided they chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. So I think they most likely had enough information about 
the cost, benefits and the exclusions at the time of the sale and I think its unlikely that more 
information would have put them off from buying it.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
BOS said Mrs As and Mr Bs mortgage was taken out in 1994 and ended in 1999. So based 
on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in 
relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here. So BOS doesnt need to refund any 
of the commission Mrs A and Mr B paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage. 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs A and Mr B. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what they 
said and about what BOS said. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably 
uphold their complaint.
Due to the current circumstances and postal restrictions in our office, I have sent this 
decision by separate emails to Mrs A and Mr B and not by letter to Mrs A as requested. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman