DRN-3276545
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) handled a claim on her travel insurance policy.
Mrs G is represented in bringing this complaint, but for ease of reference, Ill refer to any
submissions as being made by Mrs G personally.
What happened
Mrs G bought a single trip travel insurance policy online in June 2018, via a comparison
website. This was to cover a trip she had planned to America.
She travelled abroad in May 2019 but unfortunately, she fell ill whilst she was away. Mrs G
was taken to hospital by an ambulance and stayed overnight before being discharged the
next day.
Mrs G submitted a claim on her policy to cover her medical expenses. Mapfre reviewed her
medical records and only offered partial cover for the medical expenses Mrs G had incurred
because her medical records showed she suffered from atrial fibrillation and high blood
pressure. And she took medication for both conditions.
Mapfre said Mrs G hadnt disclosed her pre-existing medical conditions during the
application and had she done so, it wouldve increased the premium price of the policy.
Mapfre retrospectively screened Mrs G and said shed only paid 48% of the cost of the
correct premium shed have been charged if shed declared her medical conditions. So they
said they would only proportionately settle the claim.
Mrs G said she did disclose her pre-existing medical conditions so Mapfre should settle her
claim in full, not just a proportion. So she referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint because Mapfre was unable to 
provide evidence of Mrs Gs application form.
Mapfre asked an ombudsman to review the case. In summary they said there wasnt any
evidence to show Mrs G had disclosed her pre-existing conditions. If she had, her medical
declarations would be on their internal system - and they provided evidence to show there
wasnt a record of any medical declaration for Mrs G.
In December 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to
uphold this complaint. In summary I said:
Mapfre says Mrs G incorrectly answered medical questions when she bought her policy.
This means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA) is relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles
to the circumstances of Mrs Gs claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to misrepresent
facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that of a
reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a
consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were.
Mapfre has provided evidence to this service showing what questions Mrs G wouldve been
asked during her application on the comparison website:
1) Do any travellers have a pre  existing medical condition?
To ensure you have the right cover for your trip it is important you tell us about your
medical history, if you do not declare medical conditions then this could invalidate
your policy. Examples include diabetes, high blood pressure, depression and
respiratory conditions.
2) Have you ever been diagnosed with, or treated for any cancerous, respiratory,
heart or circulatory conditions (problems with blood flow, including strokes, high
blood pressure and cholesterol?)
3) Within the last two years have you been prescribed medication or received
treatment or attended a medical practitioners surgery?
The policy document sent to Mrs G after the online sale also says:
In the last two years have you or any person insured on this policy suffered from or
received any form of medical advice, medical treatment or medication for..
 It goes on to provide a list of conditions which includes heart condition and any blood
circulatory condition including, but not limited to, high blood pressure, hypertension or
high cholesterol?
Please note: - You must inform us of all pre-existing medical conditions for all people
to be insured on your policy before purchasing this insurance. If you declare some
pre-existing medical conditions and not others, your policy may be cancelled, or treated as if 
it never existed and your claims may be rejected or not fully paid. You cannot choose to 
exclude any pre-existing medical conditions.
Mapfre says, in response Mrs G should have declared her high blood pressure and atrial
fibrillation. Mrs G says she did declare these medical conditions during her application and
the premium increased from £40 to the £154.43 she paid.
Mapfre have explained if Mrs G had answered yes to the above questions, this would have
prompted her to move to a new tab to declare her medical conditions and answer further
medical questions.
In the absence of a copy of Mrs Gs actual application form, our investigator upheld this
complaint. However, Mapfre have since provided us with evidence of their internal systems
and a screen shot of Mrs Gs record for this policy. Having reviewed this evidence, I cant
see anything to suggest medical screening took place and Im satisfied there isnt a record of
any medical declaration on file for Mrs G. So, although I havent seen a copy of Mrs Gs
application, on balance I dont think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude Mrs G didnt
disclose her pre-existing medical conditions when asked during her application.
Therefore, I think it was fair for Mapfre to apply the relevant remedy available to it under
CIDRA and retrospectively screen Mrs G. CIDRA says if the insurer would still have entered
into the contract but would have charged a higher premium, then the insurer is entitled toreduce proportionately the amount to be paid on the claim. Mrs G paid £154.43 for her
insurance policy and Mapfre has provided evidence to show the premium it would have
charged is at least £323.47. This means that unfortunately Mrs G has only paid 48% of the
premium she should have. So, in line with the remedy set out under CIDRA, I think its
reasonable Mapfre should only pay 48% of her claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but on balance its fair for Mapfre to treat her pre-existing 
conditions as undisclosed. So I think its reasonable they only partially cover the costs Mrs G 
has incurred.
Mapfre didnt add any further comments. Mrs G responded with a number of further points. 
In summary, she said:
Ive just accepted everything Mapfre has said without any proof and rejected 
everything she said.
She questioned why Mapfre hasnt disclosed the original online application form.
She asked why shed have paid £154.00 with no medical conditions, when if she 
wanted to not disclose medical conditions she couldve paid much less. 
Shes unhappy with the excess charge. 
So now I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further points raised by Mrs G. However, theyve not changed my
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
Mrs G has said Mapfre hasnt provided any proof, but as explained in my provisional 
decision, Mapfre has been able to show me the questions that Mrs G wouldve been asked 
and what would have happened if medical screening had taken place. Im persuaded by this 
evidence. 
 
I appreciate Mrs G feels strongly about Mapre being unable to produce a copy of her 
application. And I can understand her frustration at this. But this can happen with an online 
sale through a third-party platform. So it doesnt follow that I should automatically conclude 
Mapfre have acted unfairly regarding this claim. Ive also taken account of the other 
evidence Mapfre has been able to provide, and on balance its persuaded me no medical 
screening took place at the point of sale. 
Mrs G has said the cost of the premium before she declared her medical conditions was 
about £40, and this then increased to the £154.43 she paid after the medical screening. But I 
havent seen any evidence to show Mapfre offered such a policy. And Mapfre have been 
able to evidence the premium they wouldve charged if Mrs Gs conditions had been 
declared. So, this point hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint.
However, I acknowledge there may well have been other cheaper policies for Mrs G 
underwritten by a different insurer - its likely these polices would have offered different 
aspects of cover. 
Mrs G has mentioned her excess payment. Mapfre offered to proportionally settle this claim, 
so I dont think its unreasonable for them to charge the excess amount stated on Mrs Gs 
policy. I havent seen anything to suggest Mapfre have charged Mrs G more than this. On balance, Im persuaded its fair for Mapfre to treat Mrs Gs pre-existing conditions as 
undisclosed. So I think its reasonable they only partially cover the costs she has incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman