DRN-2841125
The complaint
Ms M says Interestme Financial Planning Limited (IFPL), trading as Wise Pension Group, is 
responsible for unsuitable advice she received to switch her Zurich personal pension into a 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Yorsipp and make investments it recommended. 
She says this has caused her financial detriment.
Ms M is represented by Money Redress Limited (MRL).
What happened
Ms M says IFPL cold called her offering a free pension review. She decided to go ahead as 
she held a personal pension with Zurich that she considered frozen and wanted to ensure 
it provided the maximum possible return.
Zurich provided IFPL with information about Ms Ms pension plan in July 2017. This 
showed a transfer value of around £81,000. She wasnt making any further contributions. 
There was an exit charge of £2067. There wasnt a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) which 
applied.
At the time, Ms Ms pension was invested in a Zurich managed fund. There was an annual 
management charge (AMC) of 0.75%. There was a further monthly administration charge 
of £6.88. But there was no charge to switch funds  there were 57 internal and external 
options available.
Zurich produced an illustration projecting the plans benefits to the day before Ms Ms 75th 
birthday  the indicated fund value was £190,900, providing annual income of £7,960.
IFPL completed a fact find of Ms Ms circumstances and needs, recording:
- She was aged 49 and employed as a medical secretary.
- She wanted to retire at age 75, with an income of £1,225 per month.
- The drivers for her to switch her pension were said to be ongoing advice, pension 
performance and lower costs.
- Ms M would be able to take tax free cash (TFC) of 25% of her projected pension 
pot. If she did this, her Zurich plan wouldve provided a monthly income of £498. 
With her state pension providing monthly income of £504, she would have a shortfall 
of £223 from her desired monthly income at retirement.
On 23 August 2017, IFPL issued a suitability report to Ms M recommending that she switch 
her Zurich pension into a Yorsipp SIPP. The reasons given included:
- Greater performance prospects, which was thought to be the most important 
reason.
- The provision of ongoing advice, reviews and monitoring.
- The ability to make use of pension freedoms via flexi access drawdown.
IFPL recommended her SIPP funds be invested in a model portfolio called the EGR 
Growth Portfolio, managed by a discretionary fund manager (DFM). The portfolio was said 
to be in line with her attitude to risk and was suitable for her investment horizon.
The suitability report also explained that Ms M had nine years qualifying service in the NHS 
final salary pension scheme. IFPL said that this pension would go some way to making up 
the shortfall to her desired monthly income at retirement, but there was no analysis provided 
in this regard.
The suitability report outlined the costs involved in the switch. IFPL charged an initial fee of 
1.89% of the switch value and an ongoing annual service fee of 0.75% of the amount 
invested. Yorsipp charged a fee of £150 per year. The total costs for the ERG Growth 
Portfolio were 0.86% per year of the amount invested. IFPL noted the switch was more 
expensive than the Zurich plan.
A fund factsheet for the ERG Growth Portfolio set out how it would invest. 20% would be 
placed in fixed interest bonds which invested in the property sector in the UK and across 
Europe. 60% would be placed in the Newscape 5Alpha Adventurous fund, which invested in 
a range of collective equity investments, including smaller companies, emerging markets, 
overseas equities and commodities funds. 15% would be invested in the Newscape 5Alpha 
Conservative fund, which invested in government and corporate bond, equity and commodity 
funds. And 5% would be held in cash.
Ms Ms application to switch her personal pension with Zurich into the SIPP and invest as 
recommended by IFPL was completed on 1 September 2017.
MRL had several concerns about what had happened to Ms M in 2017. It said IFPL had 
failed to adhere to the regulations. It said Ms Ms circumstances, objectives, experience and 
risk outlook were such that the recommendation to switch her personal pension funds away 
from Zurich was unsuitable, as were the investment recommendations it made.
The Investigator upheld Ms Ms complaint. IFPL proposed redress, but the methodology it 
used didnt follow the usual approach of this Service. As agreement couldnt be reached with 
MRL, Ms Ms complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions and for broadly the same reasons. It 
follows that Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. I note IFPL hasnt disputed these matters 
either. So, theres little to be gained from rehearsing everything again in detail. The main 
difference between IFPL and Ms M appears to be what needs to happen to put things right. 
So, that will be the focus of my decision.how does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Ms Ms case?
Just to briefly establish the approach I take in a case like this. The first thing I consider is the 
extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by IFPL for Ms M. The FCA 
Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental 
obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like IFPL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Ms Ms complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Ms Ms best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between her 
former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
I dont think IFPL met the regulatory requirements placed on it in this case. As Ive 
mentioned, the Investigator identified some of IFPLs the failings, it hasnt responded. When 
I considered the evidence, I in summary I found:
-Charges - as outlined in the suitability report, the Zurich pension was relatively low cost. In contrast, the fund switch involved significant charges, including the initial 
advice fee, an ongoing advice fee and a DFM fee. Ms M also incurred an exit charge 
when she closed her Zurich pension. I havent seen a telling case made as to why 
these increased costs were in Ms Ms interest.
-Ongoing fund management  its unclear why Ms M needed to be invested with a 
DFM arrangement. She didnt have a substantial pension fund, so the additional 
charges couldve outweighed any potential improved performance. DFM fees and 
ongoing advice fees were charged, adding an additional layer of costs. IFPLs 
proposal was over engineered and expensive.
-Risk  IFPL hasnt provided a copy of Ms Ms attitude to risk questionnaire. I accept 
given her age and the fact she was invested in a managed fund with Zurich, she was 
prepared to take some risk. However, taken as a whole, the DFMs model portfolio 
fell outside of her risk appetite and capacity for loss. For example, a substantial 
element of her funds was placed in riskier assets such as smaller companies, 
emerging markets, overseas equities and commodities funds.
Theres no evidence Ms M had the investment experience or knowledge to understand the 
nature of the risks of the investments being made. Nor matters such as the DFM 
arrangement. Within her Zurich pension, there were already a significant number of funds 
available. So, had Ms M wanted to change her investment strategy, she couldve done so at 
no cost.
In addition, theres no evidence of any analysis on Ms Ms final salary pension. It may well 
have been that after considering the benefits from this scheme, which were still being 
accrued, she wouldnt have had a shortfall in her desired retirement income.
Another reason given for the switch was so Ms M could make use of flexi access drawdown. 
While such a facility couldve been useful in the future, she was many years away from her 
retirement. So, this wasnt a strong argument to switch her funds in 2017.
Ive concluded that IFPLs advise to Ms M to switch her Zurich personal pension into a 
Yorsipp SIPP was unsuitable. The ERG Growth Portfolio fell outside her attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss. Ms Ms needs were already being met by her existing scheme at a lower 
cost and with less exposure to risk.
IFPL shouldve recommended Ms M remain with her Zurich personal pension. I think she 
wouldve accepted such advice  its rare for a customer to seek professional input and then 
act against this.
Putting things right
Im upholding Ms Ms case. So, she needs to be returned to the position she wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold IFPL responsible for.
If IFPL had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Ms M wouldve switched her personal 
pension funds into the Yorsipp SIPP, and therefore she wouldnt have invested in the ERG 
Growth Portfolio. I think its most likely she wouldve left her pension with Zurich.
So Interestme Financial Planning Limited (IFPL), needs to do the following.
1. Calculate the notional loss Ms M has suffered as a result of making the switch of her 
pension funds from ZurichIFPL should obtain the notional value of Ms Ms personal pension with Zurich, as at the date 
of calculation. So, as if it hadnt been transferred to the Yorsipp SIPP. It will need to obtain 
the value of the plan as it was previously invested.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then it should use a benchmark - 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index). Im satisfied this is a reasonable proxy for 
the type of return that couldve been achieved if Ms Ms pension had remained invested in 
her previous plan.
IFPL should then find the current (actual) value of her SIPP, including investments and any 
cash held. Concerning the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
I dont know whether Ms M has taken any funds from her SIPP. And Im not aware if she 
made further contributions to it. If she has these transactions should be accounted for. After 
confirming the detailed position, then the value IFPL obtains or the calculations IFPL makes 
should assume these adjustments would still have occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Ms Ms 
former personal pension and the current value of her SIPP will be her basic financial loss 
that IFPL needs to redress.
As I understand it, Ms M paid all her fees via her SIPP fund. If thats the case, the 
methodology above will ensure she is restored to the position she should been in. However, 
if she paid any of fees directly using other sources of money and she can evidence this, then 
IFPL will need to reimburse her for this. If any fees were paid in this way then it will need to 
add 8% simple interest per annum, from the date she paid the charges until it settles.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If IFPL considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Ms M how much has been 
taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
2. Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Ms Ms SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised. 
If, at the date of settlement, any investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. IFPL should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as 
above.
If IFPL is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require Ms M provides an undertaking to pay it any 
amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for 
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
IFPL will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Had IFPL done what it shouldve then there wouldnt be a SIPP. So, it wouldnt be fair if Ms 
M continued to have to pay annual SIPP fees if there are illiquid holdings preventing the 
SIPP from being closed. Ideally, it would take over any illiquid holdings, thus allowing the 
SIPP to be closed. But third parties are involved, and I cant tell them what to do.So, to give certainty to all parties, if there are illiquid holdings and IFPL is unable to buy them 
from the SIPP, then its fair it should pay Ms M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years 
of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This gives a reasonable period to 
arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
3. Pay an amount into Ms Ms SIPP so that the value is increased by the loss calculated 
(resulting from 1 and 2) or pay her an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax. 
If compensation is paid into Ms Ms SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief, so that she is in the same position as if shed stayed in her original 
personal pension schemes.
If paying compensation into Ms Ms SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and IFPL takes on her investments, then it should pay 
her compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
If Ms M hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from her plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% wouldve been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. If Ms M is a basic rate taxpayer, the notional allowance would 
reduce the amount payable accordingly.
4. Distress and inconvenience
I also think Ms M as a result of IFPLs actions the problems with her pension arrangements 
have caused her trouble in getting things sorted out, and worry given whats happened to 
some of the investments. In recognition of this it should pay her £200 in recognition of its 
failings.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint.
I require Interestme Financial Planning Limited (IFPL), to pay compensation to Ms M as Ive 
indicated above. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of her acceptance of my 
final decision. And it should provide the details of the redress calculations to her in a clear 
and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman