DRN-3833018
The complaint
Mrs B complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly charged her an interest 
penalty when she transferred her Individual Savings Account (ISA) to another provider.
What happened
Mrs B says she transferred a fixed Term ISA to another provider on its maturity in April 2022, 
12 months from its opening. Mrs B said she discovered Nationwide had deducted an interest 
penalty of £167.38 from the monies transferred and when she questioned this she was told 
the ISA was fixed for 18 months and not 12 months as she believed. Mrs B says Nationwide 
havent been able to provide any evidence to support its claim the ISA was for an 18-month 
term and unless it can, it should reimburse her with the sum it deducted. 
Nationwide says Mrs B applied for a member exclusive fixed rate ISA which is an 18-month 
fixed term product. Nationwide says the interest penalty is in line with the terms and 
conditions of that account. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says the evidence provided by Nationwide shows Mrs B applied for an 18-month 
fixed ISA. The investigator says Nationwide were entitled to charge the interest penalty in 
line with the terms and conditions of the ISA. 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs B to have been charged an interest 
penalty on her ISA, when she believed it had matured after 12 months, only to be informed 
the investment was for 18 months.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide acted unfairly when it charged 
Mrs B an interest penalty on her ISA, when she gave instructions to transfer it to another 
provider, 12 months after its opening. 
Mrs B maintains the ISA she opened with Nationwide in April 2021 was a 12-month 
investment and when she then transferred it to another provider 12 months later, she 
shouldnt have been charged an interest penalty. Nationwide have told Mrs B that the 
member exclusive fixed rate ISA she took out in April 2021 was an 18-month investment and 
not 12 months as she believed. 
Mrs B says the evidence Nationwide have provided doesnt prove she took out an 18-month 
ISA as it claims. 
This case was passed to me to consider as Mrs B didnt feel the information provided by the 
original investigator who looked at this case was sufficient evidence to clearly show the 
investment was for 18 months. 
With that in mind I have now obtained from Nationwide a copy of the original ISA opening 
letter and accompanying certificate of investment, sent to Mrs B on 23 April 2021. This 
clearly states the ISA is an 18-month investment with a maturity date of 12 October2022. Its 
also worth pointing out under the terms of the investment under point 12 of the Key Product 
Information, that early closure of the ISA is subject to an 180- day interest penalty.  
So here, while perhaps Nationwide could have provided a copy of this letter to Mrs B sooner, 
I cant say it has made an error when it charged the interest penalty. I have asked the 
investigator to provide Mrs B with a copy of the letter and certificate of investment under 
separate cover. 
While Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman