DRN-4382386
The complaint
Mr A has complained about a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). 
What happened
Mr A ordered and acquired a new electric car under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS in December 2022. The car cost around £73,000. From what Ive seen, a week or 
so afterwards he complained the car wasnt as expected. The main issues were that it didnt 
come with an internal camera or memory seat button. He said there was a battery warning 
saying it was hot after a long journey. He also went on to complain it wasnt achieving the 
range he expected. 
The supplying dealer said memory seats can be saved via the driver profile. But it said 
memory seat buttons werent mentioned or included for the car Mr A acquired. It said it didnt 
discuss the internal camera feature because they werent available to order at that point. The 
dealer also said the features werent listed in the specification Mr A agreed to. The dealer 
said the car would need to be inspected with regards to the battery fault. 
Mr A said he repeatedly asked about the specifications of the car and was told it was fully 
specified. He says at no point was he told that the car wouldnt have memory seat buttons. 
He says he expected full disclosure. He also said memory seat buttons were shown on the 
app which is accessed using the cars VIN. He said the internal camera should have been 
part of the standard specification. He wouldnt have expected it to be separately listed. He 
said he should have been told it wouldnt be included and that it should have been shown as 
deleted from the specification. Mr A wanted to reject the car. 
The dealer couldnt find any faults with the battery. And it reiterated the specifications of the 
car were agreed. Mr A raised a complaint with BMWFS. But BMWFS said the interior 
camera and memory seat buttons werent in the description or discussed on the order. It said 
the dealer had discussed Mr As needs over multiple visits. And it said the published range 
figures for battery-electric cars, and all cars sold in the UK are based on laboratory tests. It 
said there would always be a difference between lab tests and real-world driving usage. 
BMWFS did ask the dealer why the interior camera wasnt showing as a deletion on the 
specifications. The dealer said this was a stock vehicle and the order form was discussed 
with Mr A  so he ought to have been aware it didnt come with an interior camera. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. He said hed been affected due to range anxiety, 
which is the last thing he needs given his health issues. He said he bought another car to 
compensate him for the lack of range in the car under the BMWFS agreement. He also says 
he was told he should only charge to 80% which gives him around 150 miles, whereas he 
was promised around 220 to 250 (on full charge). He accepts hes driven it  around 2,600 
miles over around four months, and that hed need to pay for his use. But he wants to reject 
it. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she said 
shed seen the memory seat buttons arent included as standard, and neither is the interior 
camera. She said Mr A had a specification sheet that he signed, and she had limited 
evidence of what was spoken about. With regards to the range, our investigator said the car 
is tested in controlled conditions. Real-world use can be affected by a number of things. She 
said she can understand why Mr A was disappointed, but shed not seen enough to 
recommend BMWFS allow rejection. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said our investigator had missed or remained silent on pertinent 
matters. He said the investigation around specification was flawed and that he was unhappy 
shed accepted BMWFS version of events. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr A and BMWFS that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Im very sorry to hear Mr A has been unwell. And I thank him for taking the time to bring his 
complaint to our service. 
Mr A acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr A entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory, fit for 
their intended purpose and as described. BMWFS is the trader for the purposes of the CRA 
and is therefore responsible for dealing with a complaint about their quality.
I think section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is also relevant here. This provision has 
the effect of deeming the supplying dealer to be the agent of BMWFS in any antecedent 
negotiations. So BMWFS is responsible for the antecedent negotiations the supplying dealer 
carried out direct with Mr A. 
The evidence is incomplete. On the one hand, Ill never know exactly what was discussed 
between Mr A and the dealer. He says he was expecting the car to come with the memory 
seat buttons and an internal camera. I can appreciate what hes saying given he tells us the 
buttons were shown on an app he had where he needed to input the VIN  indicating the car 
shown on the app should have been reflective of the actual car. Moreover, it looks like he 
might have been told the internal camera should have shown as a deleted item on the 
specification list. 
But on the other hand, Ive not been shown sufficient evidence the model Mr A acquired 
came with memory seat buttons or internal cameras as standard. The research I carried out 
on that model didnt show those functions as standard. I cant see hes paid for those 
features, so I dont think hes lost out financially. While I can understand why hes unhappy, Ive not seen enough to show that he was misled about the buttons or internal camera. It 
ends up with one word against another.
I should also point out that even if I were to find on balance he was misled about the memory 
seat buttons and/or the internal camera, Id only have grounds to direct BMWFS to allow 
rejection (for that issue at least) if I were satisfied that Mr A wouldnt have acquired the car 
had he been informed about there not being an internal camera or memory seat buttons. 
Based on what Mr A said, and the correspondence Ive seen, I can see he was unhappy the 
car didnt come with those functions, but its not clear these were deal-breakers and that he 
wouldnt have still acquired the car had he known they werent included. It seems that Mr A 
was more unhappy that he felt the dealer didnt fully disclose everything. 
I think the primary issue here is that Mr A isnt achieving the range he expected. He said he 
has various appointments he needs to attend, and that he gets anxious the car will run out of 
charge. Again, I can understand his concerns here. As a starting point, Ive not seen theres 
a fault with the car that is impacting the range Mr A is able to achieve, so I therefore dont 
have grounds to say it wasnt of satisfactory quality. And, for similar reasons to the 
specifications of the car, I dont know what conversations took place between the dealer and 
Mr A about the range. Its difficult to reach conclusions on balance the dealer misled him. 
I appreciate Mr A says he was misled by the advertised range of the car. But as BMWFS 
pointed out, this range displayed for the car was the Worldwide Harmonised Light Vehicles 
Test Procedure (WLTP) test results for this model. I think the WLTP figures have generally 
been used in order for customers to be able to compare models over the last few years. Of 
course, Mr A shouldnt have been misled about how many miles he could actually achieve in 
the car by the dealer. But, as I said above, its difficult to reach firm conclusions on that when 
I dont know what was spoken about or have supporting evidence to back that up. 
I also note Mr A said he was recommended (after acquiring the car) to only charge the 
battery to 80%. I think this is recommended to protect the battery life and maximise 
efficiency. Im not aware Mr A is unable to charge to 100% for long journeys if required. Ive 
also not seen enough to show he was misled about this. 
Therefore, in all the circumstances, Im sorry to hear Mr A is unhappy with the car. I dont 
want him to think Ive discounted his testimony  I havent. I have to bear in mind that hes 
given his version of events, and the dealer and BMWFS have given another version. Unlike 
the courts, Im unable to take sworn evidence or call witnesses. As I explained, Im required 
to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality. 
Where the accounts conflict, as some of them do here, its often helpful to look at what else 
is available. Therefore, Ive looked at the documentary evidence including the agreement 
and specification list. After viewing those, and thinking about the wider circumstances, I dont 
think Mr A is paying for something he hasnt received. And Ive not seen enough to show he 
was misled about the range or the specification. Mr A is free of course to pursue the 
complaint by other means, such as through the courts. But, while I sympathise, Ive not seen 
enough to give me the grounds to direct BMWFS to allow him to reject the car. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman