The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them two 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgages in a branch of 
YBS in 2002 and 2007. Although they were joint mortgages, the PPI was set up just to cover 
Mr M.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with  the adjudicators 
view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they were led to believe that they had to take out the PPI if they wanted 
the mortgage lending to be agreed.
2002 sale
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form from 2002. There is a separate section for 
PPI that includes a set of questions to establish if the PPI would be suitable. At the end of 
this it says that Mr and Mrs M have accepted PPI. Mr and Mrs M were then sent a mortgage 
offer letter that details that Mr M has chosen to take out PPI.
2007 sale
Ive seen a Meeting your Demands and Needs letter from YBS dated 19 October 2007. It is 
confirming a recent discussion in which the adviser says he recommended that Mr M should 
take out PPI and that the couple have decided to proceed with that recommendation.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs M have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sales were a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ms memory 
has faded. From what we know of YBSs sales processes from the time, the PPI was 
normally presented as optional. I havent seen anything to lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. The paperwork talks about recommendations and 
the couple choosing to buy the policy. Overall, based on the available evidence, I consider 
DRN-1787113that Mr and Mrs M probably decided to buy the policies, knowing that they didnt have to, 
even if they no longer remember doing so.
Both sales
YBS advised Mr and Mrs M to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending it to them, it needed 
to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of the couples circumstances at the 
time, the policies were suitable for them.
Mrs M has asked why she hasnt been taken into consideration. But it seems to me that YBS 
did consider her circumstances at the time.
The mortgage application form from 2002 notes that Mr M wouldnt get any sick pay from his 
job but that Mrs M would, and it names her public sector employer. As Mrs M would have 
received generous sick pay, it seems reasonable that the policy was set up just to cover Mr 
M. Mr and Mrs Ms employment situation was broadly the same in 2007, so again it makes
sense that cover was set up just for Mr M. I can see that on each occasion Mr M has chosen
to take out accident, sickness and unemployment cover (as opposed to accident and
sickness only, or unemployment only) and he has chosen a deferment period of 30 days as
opposed to 60 days. So it seems to me that there must have been some discussion about
the policies and that Mr and Mrs M gave consideration to what their needs were on each
occasion.
Overall, I think that Mr M had a need for the cover and Mr and Mrs M could have benefitted 
from it at what would have been a difficult time. Therefore, it was reasonable of YBS to 
recommend it to them.
Its possible that YBS didnt provide as much information as it should have about the PPI, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of those 
things, As I think that Mr and Mrs M had an interest in the policies and decided to buy them, I 
dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they 
are no worse off as a result of anything YBS may have done wrong, so there is nothing YBS 
needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman