DRN-3755618
The complaint
Mr T complains through his representative that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly provided 
him with high cost loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr T with the following loans
Date of loan Amount Repayment 
termMonthly instalments
Loan 1* 5/7/20 £600 18 months £137.13
Loan 2 28/4/21 £1,376.57 24 months £166.11
*repaid by loan 2
Loans 2 Go also provided a third loan but Mr T cancelled this during the cooling off period, 
so I shall only be considering the above two loans. As Ive said he repaid loan 1 with loan 2. 
He then repaid loan 2 early, by September 2021. Ive not seen any evidence of problems 
with payments. He complained through his representative that the loans were unaffordable 
to him.
Loans 2 Go said it carried out all necessary eligibility checks. These included using a credit 
reference agency to verify Mr Ts income and bank accounts and to obtain a credit report. It 
also used ONS (Office for National Statistics) data to assess his living expenses. It assessed 
that both relevant loans were affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator said that, in respect of both 
loans, there was no indication from the checks carried out that Mr T was struggling 
financially, and he appeared to have sufficient disposable incomed to pay both loans.  
Mr T didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. The matter has been 
passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr T would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ts ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
Mr T declared a monthly income of £3,000, whilst Loans 2 Go verified this at around £1,238. 
According to the credit report Mr T had only one loan account for which he was paying £139 
a month. The report didnt show any other debts.
Mr T declared that he lived in rent free accommodation provided by his employers, and that 
his outgoings (including his existing loan payment) were £340 a month. Loans 2 Go 
assessed these at around £800 (including the existing loan payment). This means that with 
the new loan payment he would still have had a disposable income of over £330. The 
proportion of his income spent on credit (using Loans 2 Gos verified figures) would have 
been about 22%.
I think, bearing in mind the amount of the loan that Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate 
checks of Mr Ts financial circumstances. And all the indications from those checks showed 
that he would have been able to afford the loan repayments.loan 2
Mr T again declared his monthly income as £3,000. Loans 2 Go verified this at around 
£1,275. He had settled the loan shown in his previous credit report, though had taken out a 
new one with a monthly payment of £143. The loan for which he was now applying was to be 
used, in part, to pay off loan 1. He had a small overdraft of £85, but otherwise the report 
didnt show any other debts.
Mr T declared that his outgoings were £240 a month including the existing loan but not 
including the payment for loan 1. Loans 2 Go assessed these at about £809 (including 
existing debt payments). With the new loan payment, and paying off loan 1, this would have 
left hm with a monthly disposable income of around £262. The proportion of his income 
spent on credit (allowing for a 5% payment of the balance on his overdraft) would have been 
around 24%. 
Whilst his debts had increased by a small amount, I still think this second loan was 
affordable, according to the checks Loans 2 Go carried out.
I appreciate that Mr Ts debts increased significantly after the issue of loan 2, but 
Loans 2 Go could only work from the information it had at the time of each application. Ive 
seen nothing in that information to show that an any more thorough check of Mr Ts 
circumstances was warranted. I further note that both Loans 2 Go and our adjudicator asked 
Mr Ts representative for copies of his bank statements from the relevant time. None have 
been supplied.
So I think that in respect of both loans Loans 2 Go made fair lending decisions. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman