DRN-3052175
The complaint
Mr W complains that Starling Bank Limited delayed a payment for a property purchase.
What happened
Mr W says he asked Starling on 24 March 2021 to make a CHAPS transfer for about £1.75m 
for a property purchase. He says he was told the payment would be processed that day, but 
it wasnt. Mr W says Starling made no contact with him but told him afterwards that the 
payment was held for further checks. He says its compensation offer doesnt go far enough 
or reflect the level of stress caused. He also says he lost work as a result of having to take 
time off the following working day when the payment was processed.
Starling says it accepts a poor level of customer service as it didnt make contact with Mr W 
but says it was entitled to delay the payment in order to carry out further checks. It has 
offered £50 compensation.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought Mr 
W followed Starlings process and made clear how important the payment was. He 
recommended Starling pay a total of £100 compensation.
Starling hasnt responded to the investigators view.
Mr W says the compensation doesnt reflect his loss of earnings and says he should be 
compensated at his professional hourly charging rate of £165 an hour. He also says there 
were additional costs caused by the delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint. I also think that 
Starling should pay £150 compensation and not £100 as recommended by the investigator. I 
dont think that slight difference requires me to issue a provisional decision and, in any 
event, Starling hasnt responded to the investigators view. I think it likely based on that lack 
of a response, that Starling is likely to say its compensation offer was appropriate 
I have listened to the main call between the parties on 26 March 2021. Im satisfied Mr W 
was told the payment would go through that day and he clearly explained the importance of 
it. I dont think at any stage was Mr W told that there was the possibility of the payment being 
held for additional checks and I dont think Starling contacted Mr W to tell him the payment 
would not be processed as I think it ought to have.
I have no doubt Mr W was caused distress and inconvenience in finding out himself that the 
payment hadnt be processed. He would no doubt have been concerned about the possibility 
of the sale falling through. So, I think Starling should pay compensation for what took place, 
having made clear that it ought to have either warned Mr W of the possibility of further 
checks or when it knew that those checks would delay the payment, tell him what had taken 
place. Im satisfied that Starling should pay Mr W £150 compensation which I think fairly 
reflects the level of inconvenience and distress Mr W was caused and is fair and reasonable. 
I can see that payment did go through on the following working day and there is no 
suggestion that the delay caused the purchase to fall through.
I appreciate Mr W says he should be compensated in line with his professional hourly 
charging rate and that the delay led to additional costs. But that is not how we approach 
compensation awards as Mr W clearly wasnt acting in a professional capacity here and I 
have not seen any evidence of any costs such as extra-legal fees caused by the delay. 
Overall, I dont think Starling dealt fairly with what ought to have been a straightforward 
transaction. I dont think it communicated appropriately with Mr W and for those reasons find 
it ought to pay £150 compensation.
Putting things right
I intend to order Starling to pay a total of £150 compensation. It is not clear if the £50 
compensation initially offered was ever paid and if it has, then it should be deducted from the 
total award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Starling Bank Limited to pay Mr W 
a total of £150 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman