DRN-1775891
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him three packaged
bank accounts (PBAs) between June 2000 and September 2008. He paid monthly fees for 
each of the accounts and received several potential benefits in return.
Mr M thinks that Barclays should refund him the fees he paid for all the accounts and add 
interest.
What happened
Mr M has been a customer of Barclays for quite a long time. Barclays has looked at its 
records of his account history and has told us that before June 2000 he held a fee-free 
account for around three years. Then:
in June 2000, it sold him the first PBA, called an Additions account, for which it 
charged a monthly fee,
in July 2006, it sold him the second PBA, called an Additions Plus account, for which 
it charged a higher fee than for the Additions account,
in September 2008, it sold him the third PBA, called a Premier Life account, for which 
it charged a higher fee than for the Additions Plus account.
I believe that Barclays records about this are probably reliable and I have taken them to be 
correct. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt think that 
Barclays had mis-sold him any of the accounts. Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in this case. Ive looked into
everything that Mr M and Barclays have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Throughout the period in question, Barclays (along with other banks) could sell packaged 
bank accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-
only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach 
Barclays used for Mr M, as well as giving him a choice, I would have expected it to tell him 
about each accounts costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I would 
also have expected it to check if Mr M needed the benefits which the account could provide 
before making any recommendation.
Mr M believes that Barclays mis-sold him each of the PBAs for similar reasons. In
outline, hes told us that on each occasion Barclays:
didnt tell him he could have a fee-free account or give him a choice (*), 
 
didnt tell him how any exclusions, such as those relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions, may have affected some of the insurance policies the accounts provided,
didnt tell him about the benefits of the accounts.
(*) Mr M has made this point particularly strongly. For example, amongst similar things, hes 
told us that At the outset, the opportunity to operate a free bank account was not provided.
Despite this similarity, as several years separated each event and as some seem to have 
been advised sales and some information-only sales, I have considered each sale 
individually. 
The Additions account (June 2000)
When Barclays sold this account to Mr M, he had held a fee-free account for several 
years. So, I dont accept his point that Barclays didnt tell him about fee-free accounts 
at the outset. Furthermore, Barclays was not withdrawing fee-free accounts in 2000 
and has continued to provide them until the present time. 
Mr M hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to show that Barclays told him couldnt 
keep his fee-free account and I doubt that it did so. I think its far more likely that 
Barclays gave Mr M a choice to buy the Additions account or to keep his fee-free 
account. 
Barclays has told us that it sold this account to Mr M during a meeting at one of its 
branches and that it did so on an information-only basis. At the time, this was its 
normal practice and I have no reason to think it changed things for Mr M. So, I have 
considered this to have been an information-only sale.
I think its highly likely that Barclays told Mr M about the fees for the account. They 
would appear on his bank statements and I dont think Barclays would have tried to 
hide them during the meeting. 
In June 2000, Barclays usually charged usage fees to customers with fee-free 
accounts who regularly overdrew their accounts. One of the main potential benefits of 
the Additions account was that Barclays usually waived these fees and didnt normally 
charge interest on the first £100 of any overdraft. I understand that around that time, 
Mr M overdrew his account quite frequently, and it seems to me that Barclays probably 
told Mr M about this benefit and he found it potentially useful. 
The other benefits of the account included a will Writing service and a purchase 
protection scheme. Again, I think its highly likely that Barclays told Mr M about these 
benefits. After all, it was in Barclays own interests to tell Mr M what he could gain in 
return for his monthly fee. And, as far as I can tell, none of the accounts benefits had 
exclusions which affected Mr M. 
I dont think Barclays mis-sold the Additions account to Mr M. The Additions Plus account (July 2006)
For similar reasons to those I gave for the Additions account, I am satisfied that 
Barclays told Mr M about fee-free accounts and allowed him a choice. 
Barclays has told us that it sold this account to Mr M over the phone and advised him 
to buy it. Again, I have no grounds to dispute Barclays position on this and I have 
considered this part of Mr Ms complaint to have been about an advised sale.
By July 2006, Barclays had changed the benefits of the Additions account quite a bit. 
For example, it had added use of a car breakdown service and insurance for domestic 
emergencies. The Additions Plus account provided very similar benefits and also 
offered worldwide travel insurance, which the Additions account didnt provide. Mr M 
has told us that he travelled, though only occasionally, and it seems likely to me that 
Barclays recommended the account to him for this benefit. 
I dont know the exact extent to which Mr M travelled, but I think it was reasonable for 
Barclays to make this recommendation. Indeed, it has told us that Mr M went on to 
enquire about making a travel claim, so it had obviously told him about it and he must 
have had at least some need to trigger his enquiry. 
I understand that Barclays records also show that Mr M used the car breakdown 
service and continued to overdraw his account. So, it seems highly likely to me that it 
told him about these benefits. And again, as the fees for the account would appear on 
Mr Ms bank statements, Im pretty confident that Barclays told him about them. 
I have looked at the travel insurance policy and I can see the it did contain some 
restrictions for pre-existing medical conditions, but on our questionnaire Mr M told us 
he was in good health and I havent seen anything to make me think that these 
restrictions would have prevented him from making a successful claim. And nor have I 
seen any exclusions in the other benefits which may have affected him adversely. 
I dont think that Barclays mis-sold the Additions Plus account to Mr M.
The Premier Life account (September 2008)
For similar reasons to those I gave for the Additions and Additions Plus accounts, I am 
satisfied that Barclays told Mr M about fee-free accounts and allowed him a choice.
Barclays has told us that it sold this account to Mr M during a meeting at one of its 
branches on an information-only basis and again, as I have nothing significant to 
suggest otherwise, I have accepted its position on this.
The Premier Life account was one of Barclays most expensive, but for similar reasons 
to those I have given previously, I think its highly likely that Barclays told Mr M how 
much the account would cost. 
The account offered many similar benefits to those of the Additions Plus account, but it 
had a higher interest-free allowance for overdrafts and had some other benefits such 
as a pass for using airport lounges. At around that time, Mr M was overdrawing his 
account to a level at which the extra reduction in interest costs may have applied to 
him quite often; and I gather that after buying the account he registered to use the 
airport lounge pass. So, it seems to me that Barclays probably told Mr M about these benefits and he found them potentially attractive. And again, I have not identified any 
restrictions or exclusions in any of the benefits which adversely affected Mr M. 
I dont think that Barclays mis-old the Premier Life account to Mr M.
During our investigation into this complaint, Mr M has commented that he had duplicate 
arrangements for some of the benefits the accounts provided and had no personal need for 
some of the others. For example, hes pointed out that one of the accounts provided 
insurance for pets which he didnt need. I accept this. But Barclays provided the accounts as 
packages and didnt adjust their contents for individual consumers. I accept that Mr M may 
not have needed all the potential benefits the accounts could provide, but this doesnt mean 
Barclays mis-sold them. 
Mr M has also highlighted that Barclays has not provided many original documents from the 
time it sold him the accounts. Given that its now over ten years since even the most recent  
sales took place, I dont find this surprising. I dont think that the absence of these 
documents means that Barclays mis-sold the accounts to Mr M. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Barclays
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman