DRN-1516568
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Close Brothers 
Limited ("Close Brothers") has not been of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr B took receipt of a used car in November 2018. He financed the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers. At the point of supply the car was already 
about 13 and a half years old and had completed about 97,000 miles.
Mr B had some problems with the car. He took it back to the dealership in February 2019 
and reported problems with the brakes, hand brake and steering column. He says the 
dealership only rectified the brakes and at a later stage rectified the hand brake. 
Mr B had a third party garage investigate the issues with the car and in late February 2019 
they noted that the there was movement in the steering rack; the front and rear brake discs 
were lipped and the subframe was corroded.
Mr B complained to Close Brothers and an independent inspection was organised. The 
inspector noted the car hadn't been driven for some time and that there was a misfire on the 
engine. He said the Engine Management; 4x4 and traction control warning lights were 
illuminated and that a tyre was deflated. He was unable to drive the car but did move the 
steering from side to side. He thought it "slightly notchy" and noted it was "not smooth". He 
thought the steering issue may be contributed to by the deflated tyre. He noted that the 
brakes were corroded and lipped. Overall, however, whilst he understood that the car had 
problems during the inspection he didn't think it was likely Mr B would have been able to 
travel the 7,000 miles he had since taking ownership of the car if the faults were present 
from the beginning. Close Brothers therefore rejected Mr B's complaint and he referred it to 
this service.
Our investigator thought it was likely there were faults with this car at the point of supply that 
hadn't been resolved. She thought there had been multiple efforts to try to resolve the faults 
Mr B had complained about and she was persuaded they were present at the point the car 
was supplied to him. She thought the independent inspection confirmed these faults were 
still present and she therefore thought it would be fair to suggest Close Brothers allow Mr 
B to reject the car; refund Mr B's deposit with interest and pay him £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he'd experienced.
Close Brothers didn't agree with the investigator's opinion. They provided some further 
comments from the independent inspector who said he didn't think any of the faults were 
likely to have been present at the point of supply. They asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brother, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. This car was 
quite an elderly vehicle and had completed quite a high mileage. I think some of the issues 
that have been complained of could, as the inspector has suggested, be expected on a car 
of this age and mileage i.e. the sub frame corrosion and engine faults. 
But I dont think the car should have been supplied with faults that made driving it difficult, 
and ultimately impossible, and I am persuaded thats been the case here.  
I think there is evidence that the steering rack was faulty from the beginning. I say that 
because I can see Mr B referred it to the dealership within the first few months of ownership. 
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair a problem that is 
present at the point of supply. I think Close Brothers had that opportunity when the steering 
rack was replaced. But Im persuaded that the repair didnt work. I say that because Ive 
found Mr Bs testimony persuasive and also because the independent inspector has 
suggested the steering isnt smooth and is notchy. I understand the inspector feels the 
deflated tyre may have contributed to that but I think its clear he still believed there was 
some underlying issue. Given the history Ive seen I think there is evidence that the fault was 
reported and was present from the start and I dont accept the inspectors view that it could 
not have been present from that point as theres been sufficient evidence to the contrary.
So I think, as the repair to the steering column hasnt been successful, Close Brothers 
should now allow Mr B to reject the car.
But even if Im wrong about that Im also persuaded that there were most probably problems 
with the brakes that were unacceptable at the point of supply. Mr B has provided evidence 
from an independent garage who looked at the car about three months after he took 
ownership of it. The garage confirmed that front and rear brakes were lipped. Ive looked at 
the MOT history for the car and can see that in June 2018; five months and 2,000 miles 
before Mr B took receipt of the car, there was an advisory to say front brake disc worn, 
pitted or scored. The advisory said this should be monitored and repaired if necessary. I 
think a reasonable person would expect a dealership to consider the previous MOT 
comments prior to any sale and on a performance car of this type I think a reasonable 
person would have expected them to have attended to any concerns the brakes may be 
overly worn. I think after an additional 2,000 miles they would have deteriorated and should 
have been replaced. So Im persuaded the subsequent repairs to the brakes havent been 
successful as I note the independent inspectors comments that the brakes are still lipped. 
And thats another reason I think it would be fair to allow Mr B to now reject the car.Putting things right
Close Brothers should allow Mr B to reject the car and collect it at no cost to him. 
Hes clearly been inconvenienced by this matter as hes had to return the car to the garage 
on several occasions and has had to progress a complaint when I think it could have been 
resolved much earlier. In those circumstances Close Brothers should compensate him and I 
think £250 is about right.
They should also refund Mr Bs deposit and, as hes been deprived of that money, they 
should add interest to the refund.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
allow Mr B to reject the car and terminate his finance agreement with them;
collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
pay Mr B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he's experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr B's credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman