DRN-3037837
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) allowed an unidentified third 
party to use his debit card details to make online purchases. He feels Halifax should've been 
more vigilant and proactive in protecting his card.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr H told Halifax that he didnt recognise two online or card not present 
transactions which amounted to around £50. Both transactions were refunded in full. Halifax 
couldnt establish how Mr Hs card details had been obtained by a third party. Mr H 
complained.
In their final response letter Halifax explained that there was no evidence bank staff had 
breached Mr Hs data and said that the bank operates a robust security system.
Mr H wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She acknowledged that Mr H will have been 
upset by discovering someone had used his card details without his permission. But she 
didnt think Halifax were responsible for that. She also said there wasnt anything unusual 
about the transactions that should have prompted Halifax to block them.
Noting that Halifax had already refunded the transactions, she said she wouldnt be asking 
them to do anything more.
Mr H didnt accept this. So, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached, and for the same 
reasons.
Unauthorised payments can and do happen, and because of this risk the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 make it clear that customers will only be liable for unauthorised 
transactions in very limited circumstances. Halifax have accepted that Mr H isnt liable for the 
disputed transactions on this occasion. Hes been refunded.
Mr H thinks Halifax should have been more proactive in protecting his funds. But whilst there 
are occasions when we do think banks should query payments  for example, when the 
account activity appears suspicious or unusual, or is uncharacteristic for the account or 
customer  I dont think it would be fair to say that Halifax should have stepped in and 
stopped these two transactions, which were both of low value.
Although, looking at it now and knowing that fraud occurred, the transaction audit suggests a 
third party first tried to use Mr Hs card on 13 December 2020 when a payment was made to 
a retailer for £4.80 (this was refunded by the retailer before Mr H became aware of it) I dont 
think Halifax had enough reason to suspect unauthorised activity until Mr H called them on 
24 December 2020.
I note that these two transactions did leave Mr H short of money in his account and that he 
didnt have enough funds to meet a direct debit payment to a telecommunications provider. I 
dont doubt how distressing that was for Mr H. But I dont think that distress was caused by 
Halifax. Mr H wasnt charged by Halifax for this failed direct debit and wasnt left without his 
funds for any significant period. The money was returned to his account on the day he 
reported the fraud, which was within four days of the transactions.
Overall, I find that Halifax acted fairly and reasonably, and responded quickly to Mr Hs 
report of unauthorised transactions. I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman