DRN-2790145
The complaint
Mr L and Miss M are unhappy with the pricing of their home insurance policy, held with St 
Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews). They also say theyve never received renewal 
documents.
A separate complaint was raised about how the policy was sold. But I wont cover that in my 
decision.
What happened
Mr L and Miss Ms buildings insurance policy with St Andrews started in 2001. It initially cost 
£130.68 a year.  In 2006 Mr L and Miss M added contents insurance to their policy. They 
also increased the policy excess from £75 to £100. 
Mr L and Miss M made a small claim on their contents cover in 2009. This impacted their no 
claims discount at the following renewal. 
Apart from adding contents cover to their buildings insurance policy, Mr L and Miss M didnt 
engage with the cost of the insurance at renewal from 2001 until they cancelled their policy 
in 2019. The policys cost slowly increased over the years. In 2018, Mr L and Miss Ms 
annual premium had gone up to £757.45.
Mr L and Miss M said a friend had noticed how expensive their home insurance policy was. 
The friend suggested they look for a cheaper policy. Mr L and Miss M said they thought they 
had to have insurance with St Andrews as they felt it was part of their mortgage deal. They 
said this was the reason they didnt shop around for a cheaper policy with a different 
provider. They said theyd been told this when they took their mortgage out. So they called 
St Andrews. It said they could cancel their home insurance policy if they wanted. So Mr L 
and Miss M cancelled their policy with St Andrews on 29 March 2019. A partial refund was 
issued. 
Mr L and Miss M also said that theyd never received any renewal documentation. 
So Mr L and Miss M complained to St Andrews about the premiums theyd been charged 
and about the missing renewal documentation. St Andrews checked the policy address and 
confirmed it matched the mortgage address, for which annual statements had been 
received.
St Andrews didnt uphold the complaint. It gave a general explanation about how it 
calculates premiums. It also said that renewal documents which clearly outlined renewal 
options had been sent to Mr L and Miss Ms confirmed address.
Unhappy with this response, Mr L and Miss M brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mr L and Miss M had 
been under the impression that they had to have insurance with St Andrews as a condition 
of the mortgage. He acknowledged St Andrewss view that Mr L and Miss M werent 
vulnerable, as theyd shown they could shop around for a cheaper policy. But he felt that just 
because Mr L and Miss M couldve shopped around, that didnt mean nothing had gone 
wrong. He recommended the following redress:
Refund Mr L and Miss M the difference in the premiums paid and the target price 
from 2014 until the policy was cancelled 
refund the difference between the premium paid in 2007 (£379.16) and the premium 
paid each year from then until 2013 (taking into account CPI (consumer price index) - 
inflation and IPT (insurance premium tax)
add simple interest at 8% per year from the date the money was paid to the date of 
settlement 
St Andrews initially disagreed with our investigator. It said it had documentary evidence 
which it shared with this service that Mr L and Miss M were told on at least two occasions 
that they didnt have to hold cover with St Andrews. It also provided evidence that renewal 
invitations were issued to the correct address for every policy year. And said that the 
renewal documents made Mr L and Miss Ms renewal options clear. 
But St Andrews reviewed the complaint and then agreed with our investigators view. It said 
that when it reconsidered this case, it acknowledged that Mr L and Miss M had believed that 
they had to hold insurance with St Andrews, despite the documents being clear. 
Mr L and Miss M didnt respond to our investigator. So their case has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
First, I would like to make it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. Insurers will assess and treat risk differently and will charge different 
premiums based on that assessment of risk. Its up to an insurer to decide what it charges 
for insurance. 
Second, I note that the home insurance market has become increasingly competitive. It isnt 
uncommon for insurers to initially price a policy at a lower cost than the true cost associated 
with the risk of insuring a property. This is to attract new customers. Insurers aim to keep the 
customers and get that initial discount back over future years. I dont think this is unfair. 
But I can look at whether St Andrews treated Mr L and Miss M fairly during the time they 
held their home insurance policy with them. 
St Andrews said itd never been the case that Mr L and Miss M were required to hold their 
buildings insurance with it as a condition of their mortgage. But it acknowledged that their 
misunderstanding that they needed to hold buildings insurance through their mortgage 
provider impacted their ability to shop around. It accepted our investigators recommended 
redress.
Looking at the disputed receipt of renewal documents, Ive seen evidence that the 
documents were sent to Mr L and Miss Ms correct address. So I cant hold St Andrews 
responsible for them not being received. So the only remaining aspect of this complaint that I need to decide is whether I agree that 
the redress thats been recommended by our investigator and accepted by St Andrews is 
fair. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr L and Miss M didnt engage with the price of their policy from 
the time they first took it out in 2001 to the 2018/2019. 
St Andrews provided this service a detailed explanation of its pricing approach. 
Ive fully reviewed all of the evidence provided. And I agree with our investigator that its fair 
and reasonable to expect premium prices from 2007 to 2013 to increase in line with CPI. But 
Ive seen no justification for why they should increase further. So Im satisfied that where St 
Andrews has charged more than the 2007 premium with CPI inflation added over this 
period, it should refund the difference.
When looking at how the policy was priced from 2014 onwards, St Andrews told us: It is 
important to note there is no regulatory requirement to price policies at a certain level or to 
apply a maximum policy margin. Despite this, [we] apply a series of internal pricing controls 
to ensure consistent and fair customer treatment, and to ensure policies remain within our 
commercial appetite. It said that the pricing of Mr L and Miss Ms policy was consistent with 
its pricing strategy. And that theyd received the same treatment at renewal as all other 
customers in their position. However, St Andrews has agreed to refund to Mr L and Miss M 
the difference in the premiums they paid and its target price from 2014 until the policy was 
cancelled. I consider that this is a fair and reasonable offer under the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Having looked at all the available evidence, I agree that the redress recommended by our 
investigator, and accepted by St Andrews, is fair under the circumstances.  
Putting things right
I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to take the following actions:
refund Mr L and Miss M the difference in the premiums paid and the target price from 
2014 until the policy was cancelled
refund the difference between the premium paid in 2007 (£379.16) and the premium 
paid each year from then until 2013 (taking into account CPI (consumer price index) - 
inflation and IPT (insurance premium tax)
add simple interest at 8% per year from the date the money was paid to the date of 
settlement (less tax on this amount at 20%*)
*HM Revenue & Customs requires St Andrews to take off tax from the interest. St Andrews
must give Mr L and Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to 
take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman