DRN-2821588
The complaint
Miss O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax refused to carry out a 
chargeback.
What happened
Miss O says she paid for legal advice to a firm of solicitors I will call S in 2019. She says 
she didnt receive the advice she paid for and would like her money refunded. Miss O says 
she asked Halifax to raise a chargeback, but it refused.
Halifax says Miss O made a faster payment for £900 to S. It says she didnt make the 
payment by a debit or credit card and so has no chargeback rights. It also says this wasnt a 
fraudulent payment and so couldnt help Miss O.
Miss O brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained the chargeback rules and thought this was a faster payment and not a 
credit or debit card payment. The investigator didnt think Miss O had any chargeback rights 
in those circumstances.
Miss O doesnt accept that view and has provided a letter from a different firm of solicitors in 
which she says it was accepted S didnt provide her with the service she paid for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
A chargeback is not a legal right, but a voluntary scheme run by the debit and credit card 
providers. The chargeback rules are set by those card providers and not as in this case by 
Halifax. We normally expect a bank or building society to raise a chargeback if there are 
reasonable grounds for success.
I have looked at Halifaxs records and can see that Miss O made the payment to S solicitors 
on 11 December 2019 for £900 as a faster payment. Im satisfied the payment was not made 
by a debit or credit card and so under the chargeback rules, Miss O doesnt have any 
chargeback rights. I appreciate Miss Os frustration and no doubt she can make a complaint 
about the lack of legal advice she received but I make clear that is not something either we 
or Halifax can help her with. Im also satisfied this wasnt a fraudulent payment as its clear 
Miss S intended that S receive the money.
Im satisfied that Halifax has explained the chargeback rules to Miss O and has fairly 
explained why it couldnt raise a chargeback for her. I think this brings an end to what we in 
trying to resolve this dispute informally can do to help Miss O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman