DRN-3951558
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (RateSetter) unfairly reduced her interest
returns on her crowdfunding investments and didnt return any of this following a third party
(TP) acquiring the platforms loan portfolio.
What happened
RateSetter is a peer-to-peer crowdfunding platform which was acquired by TP in September
2020. However, for ease, I shall refer to both parties separately throughout this provisional
decision.
Mrs H had been lending through RateSetter since 2012 and until it sold its loan portfolio to
TP. RateSetter provided several types of investment accounts in which investors could lend
money to third party individuals and/or businesses in return for interest. While each of these
accounts had a set Going Rate - a market interest rate determined by RateSetter -
investors could also decide to set their own target interest rates. The actual interest earned
was based upon the loan contracts contained within an investors account. Mrs H was mainly
lending through RateSetters Five Year Market with an expected interest return of around
5%.
RateSetter operated a contingency fund called the Provision Fund. The Provision Fund
was used to automatically reimburse investors their outstanding capital and interest in the
event this wasnt paid by a borrower. This in effect mutualised risk for all investors by
diversifying their exposure across the entire loan portfolio. Although payments from the
Provision Fund werent guaranteed, payments would be made provided there were sufficient
funds available in it.
The adequacy of the Provision Fund was expressed by the Interest Coverage Ratio -
calculated by dividing the size of the Provision Fund by the Expected Future Losses (the
total amount of missed and unrecovered borrower repayments expected over the lifetime of
active loans). RateSetter also published a Capital Coverage Ratio - calculated by adding
the size of the Provision Fund and all the future interest from active loans and then dividing
by the Expected Future Losses.
Historically, the Provision Fund was funded through borrowers as part of their loan fees and
not by investors. But RateSetter says that, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it
saw a decrease in new lending and in turn, a decrease in borrower fees going into the
Provision Fund. RateSetter has told us that in April 2020 the Interest Coverage Ratio had
dropped below 74% and in May 2020, in response to this, it introduced a Stabilisation
Period  a 50% reduction to the interest rate investors received on their investments.
RateSetter says that was introduced to replenish the Provision Fund. It also says the Capital
Coverage Ratio was around 154% at the time and so a capital rate reduction wasnt
necessary. RateSetter says this was all implemented in line with the terms of the investment.
TP acquired RateSetter in September 2020, but the entire loan portfolio remained with
RateSetter. RateSetter has explained that the Interest Coverage Ratio had returned above
100% by December 2020 and the Stabilisation Period ended in January 2021. In February
2021 RateSetter announced that TP was acquiring the entire loan portfolio which then
completed in April 2021. As a result, investors received their capital back, plus any interest
due.
Mrs H complained to RateSetter in February 2021 as she felt it was unfair for TP to retain
the entire Provision Fund considering she and other investors had partly financed it through
halving their interest payments during the Stabilisation Period. Mrs H said that there was a
clear conflict of interest at play with the purchase of the loan portfolio and she felt lenders
interests had not been fully considered.
RateSetter considered Mrs Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said:
Since the Covid-19 pandemic struck, it had focused on strengthening the Provision 
Fund and protecting all investors equally.
The interest rate reduction introduced in May 2020 was a necessary part of ensuring 
that all investors were fully protected  and a necessary step towards the outcome of 
investors getting their money back in full in April 2021.
Had RateSetter not increased its Provision Fund, investor capital would have been at 
risk.
The interest rate reduction naturally ended when the Interest Coverage Ratio 
returned to 100% and investors were fully protected.
There is no surplus in the Provision Fund and no surplus is expected in the future.
The Provision Fund operated in line with its Investor Terms and it was able to close 
investors accounts after the portfolio purchase under these Investor Terms.
The loan portfolio purchase meant that investors received their money back in full 
despite the economic uncertainty.
The Provision Fund goes with the loans as TP is taking on the risk of the loans.
Mrs H remained unhappy with RateSetters response and so she referred her complaint to
this Service for an independent review. Shes said that she understood that TP would bear
the risks of capital loss in the future and so she accepts that it should be entitled to a portion
of the Provision Fund. However, she felt the portion of the Provision Fund which was set to
cover missed interest payments should be returned to lenders. She also said that whilst she
agrees the terms give RateSetter the right to close accounts for any reason, she didnt think
this discharged it of its obligations to treat customers fairly, in line with the Financial Conduct
Authoritys (FCA) rules which firms should abide by.
An investigator at this Service looked into Mrs Hs concerns and upheld her complaint. In
summary, she said she wasnt persuaded, in the circumstances, it was fair for RateSetter to
implement the Stabilisation Period and reduce Mrs Hs interest payments. And so she felt 
RateSetter should put her back in the position she wouldve been in if it hadnt introduced the
Stabilisation Period.
Mrs H accepted the investigators findings but RateSetter didnt. In summary, it said:
It made it clear from the outset that the money from the Stabilisation Period would go 
into the Provision Fund to protect investors against expected future credit losses and 
this money would not be returned to the investors following this.
It acted in the interests of investors throughout, and in keeping with its terms, 
policies, and the regulatory framework (including the high-level principles such as the 
need to treat customers fairly).
It didnt agree that the outcome was unfair in any way to the investors and therefore it 
wouldnt be appropriate to offer redress to Mrs H.As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining why I thought the complaint
should be upheld. In summary, I said:
It wasnt clear from the evidence provided why the Stabilisation Period was triggered 
and RasteSetter failed to demonstrate what the level of borrower default was at the 
time of introducing it.
RateSetter had a regulatory requirement to ensure it fairly priced the loans Mrs H 
was invested in and I wasnt persuaded that shed been fairly rewarded for this risk 
she had been exposed to during the Stabilisation Period.
I had concerns regarding a possible conflict of interests between Mrs H, 
RateSetter/TP. This was because RateSetter had confirmed that having a fully 
maintained Provision Fund had been a key aspect of the sale of the loan portfolio to 
TP, without which, it said TP wouldnt have purchased the portfolio, or perhaps would 
have done so only at a discount.
I had concerns that only TP would benefit from the Provision Fund despite not being 
exposed to any risk during the Stabilisation Period.
Due to the impact of the pandemic, demand from buying investors on the secondary 
market was reduced, and as a result withdrawal times had dramatically increased 
and so I felt Mrs H had little choice but to accept the Stabilisation Period and the 
reduction in her interest.
I felt RateSetter ought to put her back in the position she would have been in if it 
hadnt introduced the Stabilisation Period.
Mrs H accepted my above provisional findings but RateSetter didnt. In summary, it said:
There was no link between the implementation of the Stabilisation Period and the 
sale to TP. The decision to do so was made before the first communications with TP 
about a possible sale.
The Provision Fund was designed to spread the risk for investors across the whole 
loan portfolio and this mutualisation of investor risk was only achieved through 
maintaining the Interest Coverage Ratio at or above 100%.
It confirmed that the Interest Coverage Ratio was a ratio which compared (A) the 
cash currently in the Provision Fund plus expected future contracted inflows from
 existing loans; against (B) expected future credit losses. Where (A) was greater than 
(B), the Interest Coverage Ratio was above 100%.
The expected future losses were estimated each month end by RateSetter's 
Executive Credit Committee, based on historic losses in the portfolio as well as 
independent macroeconomic forecasts produced by Oxford Economics. 
The impact of Covid-19 in March 2020 caused a sharp spike in expected future 
losses and the immediate need to support borrowers with breathing space, which 
caused, when tested at month end April 2020, the Interest Coverage Ratio to drop to 
74%. 
This was communicated to investors in a very transparent way and the drop in the 
Interest Coverage Ratio meant it was necessary to implement the Stabilisation 
Period to ensure investors were protected equally and that their risk was fully 
mutualised.
It was made explicitly clear to investors prior to implementation that the interest 
reduction would go to the Provision Fund to restore the Interest Coverage Ratio to 
100% and would not be refunded to investors subsequently.
It was in the best interest of investors to sell the loan book because it gave all 
investors all of their money back in one go as opposed to getting their money back in instalments as the portfolio ran off. It says this brought liquidity and certainty to a 
situation.
The offer of par value for investors loans and accrued interest was fair given that it 
was reasonable to expect TP to receive the same level of interest on the portfolio that 
the current owners (i.e. the old investors) were earning. 
It says it wouldnt have supported an offer from TP at a discount given that the 
Interest Coverage Ratio was back over 100%, while a premium was not offered.
Mrs H received more from the Provision Fund during the Stabilisation Period 
because of missed payments or defaults on the loans she was matched with than the 
additional interest shed have received had there been no need for the Stabilisation 
Period.
It acknowledged that it delayed providing a full response to the investigators initial 
opinion and made an offer of £250 for any distress and inconvenience its handling of 
the complaint caused Mrs H.
RateSetters response included a significant amount of further information which I hadnt
previously seen, alongside new arguments. And, so in the light of this, I issued further 
provisional findings in February 2023, which I include below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered RateSetters comments and the evidence provided, Im now persuaded
the decision to implement the Stabilisation Period was fair and in line with the Investor
Terms. Ill explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Ive taken into account
the relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms, such as RateSetter, are required to
follow. These are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles
for Business (PRIN) are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under
the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G) The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R.
The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
RateSetter was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligation here is:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
Fairness of the implementation of the Stabilisation Period
I understand RateSetter has relied upon the following term in its Investor Terms to introduce
the Stabilisation Period:
19.1. If at any time, RateSetter reasonably believes the Provision Fund does not
have sufficient funds (including expected future inflows) to cover current or expected
borrower defaults, RateSetter may implement a Stabilisation Period.While I think the term gave RateSetter a broad discretion to introduce the Stabilisation
Period, I must also consider whether in doing so RateSetter treated Mrs H fairly and acted
with her best interests in mind.
RateSetter has explained that that prior to April 2020, the Interest Coverage Ratio was and
had only ever been above 100% and that the objective  as disclosed to investors  was to
maintain it to this level. The Provision Fund Policy on RateSetters website explained:
Future economic uncertainty is currently not factored into the Expected Future Loss
calculation but this is taken into account by managing the Interest Coverage Ratio to
a figure greater than 100%.
Its also clear that the Provision Fund was a vital mechanism in ensuring mutualisation of risk
across the loan portfolio. And if this was not sufficiently maintained, investors would likely be
exposed to risk beyond that which theyd accepted when agreeing to invest on a platform
that mutualised risk across the whole loan portfolio. The Provision Fund policy explained:
The Provision Fund exists to protect RateSetter investors. It protects all investors
equally and so has the effect of mutualising the risk for all investors by diversifying
their exposure across the whole loan portfolio. This means that it is the performance
of the whole loan portfolio that matters for RateSetter investors.
RateSetter has also explained that expected future losses were estimated each month-end
by RateSetter's Executive Credit Committee, based on historic losses in the portfolio as well
as independent macroeconomic forecasts produced by Oxford Economics. And that the
impact of Covid-19 in March 2020 caused a sharp spike in expected future losses which,
when tested at month end April 2020, caused the Interest Coverage Ratio to drop to 74%. It
was this level of drop in the Interest Coverage Ratio which RateSetter says meant it was
necessary to implement the Stabilisation Period  ensuring investors were protected equally
and that their risk was fully mutualised.
Understandably, there was a lot of uncertainty during the Covid-19 pandemic, and I think it
would be unfair to scrutinise a firms decision taken during this time where its clear it has
taken precautionary steps having relied upon independent forecasts. Its also apparent from
the information provided that RateSetter had lengthy discussions regarding what was the
best action to take in these circumstances. So Im satisfied RateSetter took reasonable steps
to take account of independent views and there was a reasonable basis to its assessments
of the coverage level.
I also accept that, as the aim of mutualisation is to spread the risk across all the investors,
its not necessary to understand which individual loans Mrs H was invested in, nor the level
of default which occurred on these loans, when determining the fairness of introducing the
Stabilisation Period. However, I think its important to consider that Mrs H did benefit from
the protection of the Provision Fund during the Stabilisation Period. This supports the
argument that the Provision Fund was being used for the benefit of existing investors and
was part and parcel of the overall loan portfolio.
Furthermore, my initial concerns in my previous provisional decision regarding any potential
conflict of interest have since been alleviated. I say this as RateSetter has demonstrated that
its decision to implement the Stabilisation Period was made prior to discussions about the
potential platform and loan portfolio purchase. RateSetter has explained that the first
communication it had with TP in relation to a possible sale  which was a communication
from TP to RateSetter  was on 10 May 2020, a month or so after the decision to implement
the Stabilisation Period was taken and nearly a week after it took effect.So, on balance, Im persuaded RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period
was fair, as it was consistent with the objective of maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate
above 100% - ensuring continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio - and
allowing investors to continue to benefit from protection whilst still receiving interest (albeit
less than expected) during a period of economic uncertainty. Im also are satisfied the
Provision Fund shortfall estimates were reasonably assessed, as RateSetter considered
relevant factors from independent sources. Its also important to consider these decisions
were made in unprecedented circumstances and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to
consider these with the benefit of hindsight.
The price received for the loan portfolio
I understand Mrs H believes she ought to have received more from the loan portfolio sale 
essentially receiving more than a par value for her loans and receiving a percentage of the
funds available in the Provision Fund. Ive thought very carefully about this, however I think
RateSetters actions were fair and in line with the terms on which the investment was made.
Ill explain why.
The Investor Terms explained that:
By agreeing to these Terms, youre appointing RateSetter to act as your agent in all
matters relating to the origination, negotiation, administration and management of
your loans. This includes:
[]
negotiating and executing on your behalf any agreements relating to your loans;
]
entering into any transfer arrangements on your behalf in order to transfer the benefit
of any loans (or part thereof) to the Provision Fund, another RateSetter investor,
RateSetter itself or a third party; and
anything else RateSetter reasonably considers necessary to manage your loans,
including terminating those loans.
Therefore, RateSetter had the power to make the sale on Mrs Hs behalf and transfer the
arrangements  including the Provision Fund  to TP. So the sale and transfer was a
legitimate exercise of the rights given to RateSetter by Mrs H when she invested.
It was also able to close Mrs Hs account with two months notice under the Investor Terms:
"16.1 We can end our agreement with you, close or suspend your RateSetter
account and stop providing any services by giving you at least two months' notice."
Ive also considered how RateSetter explained how the Provision Fund would operate, the
circumstances in which Mrs H has a call on it and what she was entitled to receive on
withdrawing her investment.
The Provision Fund Policy provides clarity as to how the fund would operate. This explains:
If a borrower misses a repayment, the Provision Fund automatically reimburses the
outstanding capital and interest to the investor.
[]
These assets are ring-fenced from the other assets of RateSetter. The Provision
Funds assets can be used only to reimburse RateSetter investors and to cover the
operational costs of the Provision Fund
[]
If the Provision Fund accumulates a surplus relative to losses, this surplus ultimately
belongs to RateSetter.From this, its clear from this that the Provision Fund is a separate, ring-fenced, sum of
money on which Mrs H would only have a call to it in the event of borrower default. It would
appear that investors had no right to a return from the Provision fund in any other
circumstances. This was also explained to Mrs H in the Investor Terms:
10. The Provision Fund
10.1 To provide protection to RateSetter investors, RateSetter sets aside funds as a
provision against borrower defaults for the benefit of all RateSetter investors (the
Provision Fund).
[]
10.3 If a payment becomes due under the terms of any of your loans and is not paid
by the borrower, the Provision Fund will automatically make payment to you on the
borrowers behalf, provided it has the funds to do so.
Theres also nothing in the Investor Terms which suggested investors had a call on the fund
if, at the point of withdrawal from the investment, it was estimated to be more than was
required to provide protection. So Im persuaded Mrs H cannot have invested with that
expectation. Rather, the Investor Terms explained that in the event of withdrawing from the
investment, an investor would only ever receive their capital and the interest which had
accrued. Ive seen nothing in the terms which suggests the amount paid to those
withdrawing from the investment should be adjusted by reference to the level of protection
afforded by the Provision Fund. So as Mrs H was essentially withdrawing from her
investment, I dont think the fact that she was withdrawing by virtue of the loan portfolio sale
changed anything contractually and that by her getting a return of capital and interest
accrued meant she received what she was entitled to as per the terms of the investment.
Having considered all of the above, Im satisfied Mrs H was only entitled to money from the
fund in the event of a default and, on withdrawing, was only entitled to a return of capital and
accrued interest. Therefore, Mrs H received what she was entitled to under the terms when
RateSetter sold the loan portfolio to TP. Im also satisfied that the Provision Fund Policy
made it clear the Provision Fund was intended to protect investors and so once Mrs H
withdrew as an investor Im satisfied she no longer had a right to it.
Determining what Mrs H was entitled to under the terms of the investment is the starting
point when scrutinising the price Mrs H received for her loans. However, Ive also considered
whether its fair and reasonable to say Mrs H should have received more than she was
entitled to as per the terms of the investment, given the position with the Provision Fund at
the time of the sale.
At the point in which Mrs H withdrew from her investment by way of the loan portfolio sale,
she was no longer exposed to any risk. This risk was transferred to TP and so I dont think it
would be fair for her to benefit from any protection the Provision Fund provided. The
Provision Fund is part of the package which TP receives when it purchased the loan portfolio
and aims to protect the current investor (TP) against default.
The Provision Fund may be bigger than it would have been, had the interest rate reduction
not been applied during the Stabilisation Period, but Im not persuaded that meant Mrs H
should have been paid something in addition to what she was contractually obliged to
receive up until the point of exiting from the investment. Rather, Im persuaded that the
period of reduced interest, which effectively reflected the increased default risk during a
period of economic uncertainty, was simply part of the overall risk of the proposition which is
rightly reflected in the returns paid. I say this as there was always a risk that borrower fees
would not be adequate to fund the level of protection needed, meaning either defaults would
hit investors due to inadequate cover or returns would be reduced in order to ensure
adequate cover. This was all clearly explained to Mrs H in the Investor Terms and Impersuaded she invested on the basis that she was aware her interest may be reduced. As
such, receiving her capital back and some interest seems to be a fair reflection of how the
investment has performed during the Covid-19 pandemic and up until the point in which the
loan portfolio was sold.
Id also consider that any additional payment made to Mrs H, to reflect the value of the
Provision Fund at the point of the loan portfolio being sold, would be effectively putting her in
a position is if the Covid-19 pandemic hadnt happened. As such, I dont think it would be fair
to award redress for reduced returns arising from inherent risks in the investment during this
period.
I understand Mrs H doesnt think TP should benefit from the protection the Provision Fund
provides beyond that which investors contributed towards during the Stabilisation Period.
Whilst estimations at the point of the loan portfolio sale suggested that the Provision Fund
offered more than needed for capital protection, I dont think this means all or part of the
interest investors sacrificed during the Stabilisation Period ought fairly be refunded. As Ive
explained, the Interest Coverage Ratio is the level of cover against capital and future interest
losses (i.e. all losses) whereas the Capital Coverage Ratio is the level of cover against
capital losses only (i.e. it accounts for the future interest payable when considering the
degree of coverage). I think its difficult, against that background, to say it was fair for TP to
pay more than par value when the loan portfolio being purchased was estimated to have an
Interest Coverage Ratio of around 100%. I think a more reasonable interpretation is that the
loan portfolio was adequately insured, and so paying par value is a fair and reasonable
reflection of that. I say this as, if the Provision Fund offered less protection, the value of loan
portfolio would be arguably worth less, as there would be no buffer to protect TP from future
economic changes which increase the risk of default.
RateSetter says the offer of par value for investors loans and accrued interest was fair
given that it was reasonable to expect TP to receive the same level of interest on the
portfolio that the current owners (i.e. the old investors) were earning. I think this is a valid
point considering that the risk TP has taken on in purchasing the loan portfolio hasnt
changed and so it follows that the reward for doing so should remain the same as what
investors were receiving.
Whilst I appreciate that some investors, such as Mrs H, may have wanted to continue to
invest on the platform, the loan portfolio purchase did result in investors getting liquidity of
capital and interest to cover a two month notice period, in a timely and orderly way during a
period of economic uncertainty. So Im persuaded the price Mrs H received was fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances.
RateSetters delay in providing a full response
RateSetter has made an offer of £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mrs H by its
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint. Whilst I've not found a failing in
terms of introducing the stabilisation period or the price it paid Mrs H for her loan parts, I
think this offer fairly reflects the distress or inconvenience caused to her by not providing this
information at the earliest opportunity. Had it provided this at the earliest available
opportunity, I would not have reached the same outcome in my previous provisional
decision.
RateSetter accepted my most recent provisional findings, as did Mrs H, overall. However, 
she felt it was incorrect to say that, during the Stabilisation Period, shed received more from 
the Provision Fund compared to the additional interest she had sacrificed. Whilst Mrs H 
acknowledged that the relationship between the payments from the Provision Fund and the reduction in interest didnt impact my provisional findings, she still asked for this apparent 
discrepancy to be brought to my attention and be queried with RateSetter.
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RateSetter has accepted my provisional findings and Mrs H has no substantial 
comments, I see no reason to change my conclusions and I can confirm them as final. I will 
however, respond to her comments regarding the level of payments she received from the 
Provision Fund during the Stabilisation Period.
I included this information in my provisional decision as I thought it would be helpful for Mrs 
H to know that, despite me not upholding her complaint, the information provided by 
RateSetter suggested she may not have lost out overall. However, I accept that I havent 
verified this information. RateSetter hasnt provided a calculation of how much Mrs H 
received in payments from the Provision Fund, during the Stabilisation Period. And whilst I 
appreciate Mrs H would like RateSetter to provide a calculation of this, as well as a 
calculation to demonstrate how much additional interest she would have received had 
RateSetter not implemented the Stabilisation Period, I wont be asking RateSetter to provide 
this. I say this as Ive already explained why I think it was fair and reasonable for RateSetter 
to introduce the Stabilisation Period when it did. And ultimately, understanding the level of 
payments Mrs H received from the Provision Fund during the stabilisation period wouldnt 
change my finding on whether I think she has been treated fairly.
Mrs H may wish to contact RateSetter directly for the calculations if she would like 
reassurance on whether the position described is correct, but I won't be asking RateSetter to 
do this as it doesn't impact the outcome Ive reached.
Putting things right
RateSetter has made an offer of £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mrs H by its 
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint and I think this offer fairly reflects 
the distress or inconvenience caused to her by not providing this information at the earliest 
opportunity. 
My final decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Retail Money Market Ltd 
to pay Mrs H £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman