DRN-1317980
The complaint
Ms B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc increased the APR on her 
credit card without providing an adequate reason for doing so.
What happened
Ms B holds a credit card with M&S Bank. On 7 May 2019 it wrote to her to explain that as a 
result of a recent review of her account it was increasing her credit card interest rate from 
18.9% to 20.9% APR. M&S Bank said this change would take effect on 17 July 2019 and 
that Ms B could either accept that change or, if she wanted to reject the change, end her 
agreement and continue to repay her balance at the current rate of interest.
In its correspondence of 7 May 2019 M&S Bank told Ms B that prior to it increasing her 
interest rate it had considered many factors including her payment history, level of cash 
advances and amount of unsecured debt with it and other lenders. But it didnt give her 
either an exhaustive list of what factors it had considered or a specific reason why it had 
increased the interest rate.
Ms B wasnt happy about the interest rate increase. She said she didnt make cash 
advances, always made at least minimum monthly payments to her account, had good credit 
history and a credit card with another financial institution that she was making regular 
payments to. So, she complained to M&S Bank and told it she wanted to understand why it 
had chosen to increase her interest rate. 
In its final response to Ms Bs complaint M&S Bank explained that it wasnt able to provide 
specific details regarding why her account had been selected for an APR increase and it 
reiterated the options available to Ms B.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with M&S Banks response to her complaint. She paid the outstanding 
balance on her credit card in full and ceased using it. She also referred her complaint to our 
service. 
After our investigator assessed all the evidence Ms B and M&S Bank had provided this 
service they didnt uphold this complaint. Overall, they agreed what M&S Bank had written in 
its final response letter and explained that we arent able to tell banks what interest rates to 
set. They also felt M&S Bank had given Ms B the notice she was entitled to under the terms 
and conditions of her account and it had outlined the options available to her. So they didnt 
think M&S Bank had treated Ms B unfairly. But she disagreed and asked for her complaint to 
be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms B experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about her complaint and I appreciate the reason why shes brought it to our service.My role is to assess whether I think M&S Bank made a mistake, or treated Ms B unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she 
and M&S Bank have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Ms B will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
From correspondence Ms B sent to our service, I think she considers this service has some 
sort of regulatory function. So I should make it clear at the outset were not a regulator. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service provides informal dispute resolution. When an individual 
consumer has a complaint about a financial business (thats within our jurisdiction) well look 
into the matter. And, if were satisfied the business has done something wrong, well require 
it to put things right. But, I dont have the power to tell M&S Bank to change the interest rate 
on the credit card accounts it provides. M&S Bank is entitled to exercise its own commercial 
judgment about that. And this means I cant require it to decrease the rate on Ms Bs account 
as she would like.
M&S Bank said this interest rate increase was prompted by a review of Ms Bs account. It 
isnt unreasonable for a bank to review a customers account and consider whether it wishes 
to change their interest rate. The terms and conditions of Ms Bs account explain that M&S 
Bank can subject accounts to a review. So I cant fairy conclude that it acted unreasonably in 
doing this.
The terms of Ms Bs account also outline in clear language the types of changes M&S Bank 
can make to the account. One of the changes it can make relates to the interest it charges 
its account holders. Its clear from the account terms that the interest rate can be changed 
and that means it can go up and down. These terms go on to state that before any change 
takes effect M&S Bank will provide its customers with at least 30 days notice. 
Another source of information Ive considered when assessing this complaint is The 
Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), which states that where a firm proposes to exercise 
a power under a regulated credit agreement for a credit card or store card to increase the 
interest rate, the firm must: 
1.permit the customer 60 days, from the date of the firms notice of the proposed 
increase during which period the customer may give notice to the firm requiring it to 
close the account;
2.permit the customer to pay off the outstanding balance at the rate of interest before 
the proposed increase and over a reasonable period; and 
3.give notice to the customer of the rights in (1) and (2).
 
In this case, I can see that M&S Bank notified Ms B of the interest rate increase on 7 May 
2019 and that change took effect on 17 July  over two months later.  It gave her the 
opportunity paying her outstanding balance at the lower interest rate. Ms B was given 
sufficient notice in which she could notify M&S Bank if she wanted to close her account. 
Based on the letter it sent her about the interest rate increase Im satisfied it clearly outlined 
the options she had available in relation to accepting or rejecting the interest rate change. 
Overall, I think the information and notice Ms B was given was helpful because it gave her 
time to explore whether she wished to change her credit arrangements before the change 
came into effect. And Im satisfied that the action M&S Bank took here was compliant with 
both the account terms and conditions and the principles set out in CONC.  
CONC also states that where a firm has a right to increase the interest rate.the firm must 
not increase the interest rate unless there is a valid reason for doing so. M&S has explained in broad terms what triggered a review of Ms Bs interest rate. But its clear she doesnt think 
it had a valid reason for increasing her interest rate. 
Ms B considers herself to pose a good credit risk and has maintained her account with M&S 
Bank, and other lending institutions, in line with the terms and conditions of her account. I 
can therefore understand why shes keen to get a better understanding of why her interest 
rate was increased and why she wasnt satisfied with the generic explanation she received 
from M&S Bank.
However, while I realise that M&S Banks explanation about Ms B's interest rate increase 
didnt go into the level of detail she wanted, or expected, M&S Banks interest rate criteria 
are commercially sensitive. As a result, it isnt able to tell Ms B what specifically caused her 
interest rate to increase. 
I know Ms B will disagree but I wouldnt expect a business to give out detailed information 
about its interest rate criteria. I can understand that Ms B feels this is unfair. But M&S Bank 
is under no obligation to tell her anything more, as much as she wants to know. Our service 
cant tell it to share this information with her and so I cant ask M&S Bank to elaborate any 
further here. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that the terms of Ms Bs account 
allow M&S Bank to increase the interest rate. And, as it gave her more than the required 
notice, I cant fairly conclude it acted unreasonably or did anything wrong here. It follows that 
I wont be asking M&S Bank to reinstate the lower interest rate or do anything further.
I realise Ms B will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with M&S Bank informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant 
help Ms B any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman