DRN-4055917
The complaint
Ms T complained that she was given unsuitable advice to transfer her defined benefit (DB) 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a type of personal pension.
Retirement & Investment Solutions Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To 
keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to RISL.
What happened
In 2015 Ms T asked her then financial adviser for advice about her deferred DB scheme. Her 
adviser didnt have the necessary permission to advise on DB pension transfers, so it 
passed Ms T onto RISL, which did. To be clear, this means RISL is responsible for 
answering the complaint.
Information gathered about Ms Ts circumstances were broadly as follows:
Ms T was a deferred member of the DB scheme having been a member between 
1989 and March 2015. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the pension was around £318,061 and 
the normal retirement age (NRA) was 62.
Ms T was 47 years old, divorced and with no-one financially dependent on her. She 
was in good health.
Ms T earned around £25,000 per year with a bonus potential on top. She was in 
private rented accommodation and had no savings or significant assets. Ms T was 
currently in a type of debt management plan which she was evidently making 
progress on.
RISL set out its advice in a suitability letter in August 2015. It advised Ms T to transfer out of 
her DB scheme and invest the funds in a type of personal pension arrangement. Ms T 
accepted this advice and so transferred from her DB scheme to a personal pension shortly 
after. 
Ms T says that she later became aware of having a cause to complain. She first complained 
to RISL about its advice, saying she shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of her DB 
scheme. In response, RISL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the 
financial objectives Ms T had at the time. 
Ms T then referred her case to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. As RISL hasnt agreed and the complaint couldnt be 
resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the final response from RISL dated April 2023. Theres a lot of information in 
this final response and so Im not going to refer to every point in this decision. But Ive 
considered everything RISL said in the response with great care. 
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of RISL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, RISL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Ms Ts best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Ms Ts best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding her complaint.
Financial viability
RISL referred in its transfer recommendation to a critical yield rate. The critical yield is 
essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the 
DB scheme. The critical yield is part of a range of different things which help show how likely 
it is that a transferred personal pension fund could achieve the necessary investment growth 
for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
In Ms Ts case, I think how RISL portrayed the critical yield to her was somewhat misleading. 
RISL said, for example, that the critical yield required to match the benefits of the DB 
scheme she was in at the time, at her NRA of 62, was 5.9%. But it didnt calculate a critical 
yield if she intended to take a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced pension for the NRA. Nor did RISL calculate any critical yield rates if Ms T was to retire earlier, despite it implying, 
both then and now, that this was a major objective for her. In my experience, the critical 
yields for an earlier retirement could easily have been higher than 5.9%.
So, as RISL itself based much of its transfer rationale on Ms T potentially taking early 
retirement or adopting what it implied was greater flexibility in a personal pension, I think 
omitting other critical yields was a significant gap and one which would have caused Ms T to 
have less information than she needed to make an informed decision.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
was only 4.5% per year for 14 years to the NRA (age 62), which is below the critical yield 
figure of 5.9%. The discount rates for retiring earlier were lower  for example, retiring at 55 
had a discount rate of only 3.8%. 
Its important to bear in mind that small parts of a percentage point matter in these 
assumptions as what were talking about here is year-on-year growth over more than 14 
years. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. 
At the time, RISL said Ms Ts attitude to risk (ATR) was highest medium. I accept this was 
completed after she filled out a questionnaire, but I think this ATR categorisation was too 
high. This mis-categorisation doesnt actually change the overall outcome here, but in my 
view it helps demonstrates the overall nature of RISLs dealings with Ms T.
I say this because Ms T had no assets. She was in rented accommodation and didnt have 
any savings. This was her only current pension, other than the state pension payable at 67. 
Therefore, not only did Ms T have little capacity for loss, theres absolutely no evidence 
showing she had any money market investment experience to call upon, and she had no 
such investments at the time. RISL places weight on Ms T being knowledgeable and 
employed in financial services, but she was working in a specific area, unrelated to pensions 
or investments. So, I think any reasonable assessment of her financial situation would have 
caused her ATR to have been moderated down.
As I say, none of this really matters as the evidence strongly implies that when looked at 
from the perspective of 2015 when this advice was given, Ms T would likely be worse off in 
the longer term if she transferred away from her DB scheme. I can say this by taking account 
of the figures Ive described above. And I think a future growth assumption towards the lower 
half of the regulators projections and close to the discount rate(s) Ive described, were the 
most relevant ones to use. 
All these growth assumptions were below the critical yield figure, rather than above it. And 
as Ive said, the critical yield could have actually been higher in Ms Ts circumstances. So, I 
think this shows that achieving 5.9%, year-on-year, upon transferring out was far more 
unlikely than likely, in Ms Ts case. 
That no other critical yield figures were supplied to her was misleading. But so was the RISL 
advisers view about potential growth if she transferred out. The adviser thought achieving 
5.9% was achievable despite what Ive set out above. But this was based heavily on recent past performance and they also implied, without any supporting analysis, that the critical 
yield here of 5.9%was actually very low. In my experience, this comment simply isnt 
justified.
To summarise the financial viability then, all the signs which Ive seen were indicating that 
Ms T would likely receive lower pension benefits overall as a consequence of transferring 
away from the DB scheme. Even the proposed personal pension provider itself assumed 
growth rates substantially below the critical yield of 5.9%. And there would be little point in 
Ms T giving up the guarantees and benefits available to her through her existing DB scheme 
only to achieve a lower level of benefits in a personal pension in the long term. 
Of course, according to RISL, its recommendation that she should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not based on the financial comparisons with her current scheme alone. Rather, 
RISL said Ms T had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for her, despite providing the 
overall lower benefits Ive mentioned. 
Ive considered these below.
Other reasons given for the transfer advice
Ive used the documentation from RISL at the time to help list some of the themes the 
recommended transfer-away was based on. Our investigator also highlighted some themes 
when he issued his view. These were:
There was more tax-free cash available at the age of 55 in a personal plan, than was 
available under Ms Ts existing DB scheme.
Flexibility and access early to the pension was more attractive in the personal plan.
She could have ownership and control of the pension funds if she transferred.
The death benefits were more suitable for her in a personal plan.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that RISL recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Ms T. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn.
Retiring early / taking tax-free cash
RISL mentioned on several occasions in documents from the time of the advice that Ms T 
had said her preferred retirement age was 55, rather than the NRA of 62. I dont doubt that 
Ms T might have genuinely hoped to retire as early as possible. But Ive seen nothing that 
shows this was anything more than something she aspired to do at that stage, as opposed to 
being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Ms T was only 47 years old at the time. 
She had no demonstrable assets and was currently renting a home. Shed also experienced 
recent financial challenges. Against this backdrop, its simply not credible that she had any 
realistic and concrete plans for retirement at that point. I therefore dont think this should 
have influenced a recommendation for her to irreversibly transfer out to a personal pension 
plan.
However, even if I were to consider the highly unlikely scenario that Ms Ts retirement hopes 
were more fixed than the mere aspirations set out by RISL - and she really did plan to retire 
early - I think RISL should have better assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst 
being a member of her current scheme. It seems Ms T herself had been given financial scenarios from her pension trustees outlining how much she could get at certain ages if she 
remained in her DB scheme. We know, for instance, that at 55 shed have been able to get 
an estimated annual pension of £8,252 or a reduced pension of £6,117 together with a tax-
free lump sum of £40,781. 
What we dont know here, is what Ms Ts retirement income needs were because these 
werent comprehensively assessed at the time of the advice. The fact-find designed to 
capture Ms Ts full financial picture wasnt properly completed by the adviser. Important 
sections about her specific outgoings and financial liabilities were not completed properly, a 
significant shortfall of what Id expect to see when advising someone in Ms Ts situation.
So, although early retirement under the DB scheme would still have been an option for Ms T, 
this was clearly viewed by the adviser in the negative dimension. And so its hard to see how 
Ms T, in her situation, would be able to retire at 55 with an income of £6,117 per year. This 
would have represented a very significant drop in from her current income, but this was not 
addressed or explained by the adviser.
RISL also promoted to Ms T that she could access more tax-free cash if she transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said shed be able to access 25% of her pension as a lump-sum 
and then use the remaining funds more flexibly if she transferred away to a personal plan. 
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when 
compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes 
are calculated differently. But RISL should have been telling Ms T at the time that extra tax-
free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 55 in her 
case, also came with consequences in that the amount left for her later retirement years 
would obviously decrease. But instead of exercising caution, which in my view would have 
been appropriate, the adviser told Ms T that she could get double the DB schemes lump 
sum, a prospect Im sure she would have found appealing.
So, I think retiring early from the existing DB scheme was quickly discounted by RISL as Ive 
seen no evidence it was realistically discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more 
in Ms Ts best interests. The advice simply focussed on her transferring away completely. 
And whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other viable options Ms T faced; in 
my view these options should have included remaining in her DB scheme. 
Flexibility, ownership and control
I cant see that Ms T required flexibility in retirement in the way RISL implied. As Ive said, 
RISL did a poor job at identifying what Ms Ts retirement income requirements might be and 
there were already limited degrees of flexibility still available to her around retiring early in 
her existing scheme. 
In my view, there was no evidence to support that Ms T needed flexibility at all and the 
concept of flexibility wasnt really defined by the adviser. In my view, evidence of why Ms T 
wouldnt use the DB pension in exactly the way it was designed, is absent.
Theres also no evidence showing that Ms T had either the desire or capacity to manage 
these funds. As Ive said, Ms T had no such investments at the time. So, theres nothing to 
suggest she was knowledgeable enough in these pension related matters or that she had 
any past investment experience to call upon. She says she hadnt.
I therefore think the issue of flexibility was used to merely help justify the transfer-away 
recommendation. And at £318,061 in total value, I think Ms T would have needed significant 
help and advice to manage the scale and complexity of the funds. Given their value, this would have come at an ongoing and considerable cost which she didnt have with the 
scheme she was already in.
Death benefits 
A key theme in the advice RISL gave to Ms T was that she wasnt currently married and had 
no young dependent children, so the death related pension benefits associated with these 
things in her existing scheme were of no use to Ms T.
I do understand the point being made. In addition to spousal benefits, there were wider child-
related benefits whilst children remained within full-time education. For many consumers, 
these things are of great reassurance, and therefore great value, in a pension. I accept Ms T 
didnt need them and theres no indication she was with a partner at the time or intended to 
marry again.
However, what RISL told Ms T is that if she transferred away, then any value in a personal 
pension plan could be passed on, most likely tax-free, to her adult son. This may have 
sounded good, but it needed careful explanation, particularly as Ms T was still only 47 years 
old and in good health. And whilst the entire value of a pension in a personal scheme could 
be passed on, the whole point of a pension is to pay for ones retirement. So, if Ms T had 
lived a long life, its highly likely there would be very little left in the personal pension fund to 
pass on. The amount in a personal scheme was also at risk to market volatility and it wasnt 
index linked.
So, although RISL implied that the death benefits were discussed at the time and the 
personal pension arrangement would better enable the retention of the value of the funds if 
Ms T died, this isnt strictly the full picture. RISL should not have encouraged Ms T to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over her security 
in retirement.
Im also not clear whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed. However, at 
47 years of age, a term cover policy may have been a reasonably affordable product if Ms T 
really did want to leave a legacy for her son if she passed away. 
Overall in this case, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Ms T. Overall, it was 
not helpful to her situation and it wasnt in her best interests.
Suitability of investments
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Ms T, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Ms T should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments in the funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
Summary
In this decision Ive explained why I dont think the advice to transfer away from her DB 
scheme was in Ms Ts best interests. She was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and 
increasing income within her current deferred scheme. 
Ms T was still over 14 years from her NRA. Ive explained why, in these circumstances, I 
thought it was too early to recommend that she transfer away from her DB scheme and there 
were no other justified financial reasons for transferring. The evidence shows she would be more likely to receive lower pension benefits in the longer-term as a result of transferring 
away.
As for the flexibility RISL says Ms T required, I dont doubt that this and the control RISL said 
she could have over the transferred funds, would have all sounded like attractive features to 
Ms T. Similarly with the death benefits, where RISL implied these suited Ms Ts situation 
much better in a personal pension plan, rather than the DB scheme she was a deferred 
member of. 
But RISL wasnt there to merely transact what Ms T might have thought she wanted. Ms T 
wasnt experienced in these matters and she went looking for regulated financial advice. She 
was also paying a substantial amount for it. So, even though RISL says Ms T was given a 
number of warnings about transferring, its important to remember here that it was RISL 
which was the regulated adviser. The advisers role was to interpret Ms Ts circumstances 
and to use their skills, training and professional experience to recommend what was in her 
best interests. Instead, they clearly and specifically recommended an irrevocable transfer 
based on a series of stock objectives which I believe bore very little resemblance to Ms Ts 
situation.
I therefore think RISL ought to have advised her against transferring out of her deferred DB 
scheme. In my view, Ms Ts circumstances were much more aligned to her retiring from the 
DB scheme when she was ready to do so and drawing a regular income. In this context, the 
suitable option was for her to access her DB pension in the way it was originally intended.
In light of the above, I think RISL should compensate Ms T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms T, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Ms T would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
RISL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Ms T has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age (62), as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Ms Ts 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, RISL should:
always calculate and offer Ms T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Ms T before starting the redress calculation that:- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Ms T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Ms T accepts RISLs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Ms T for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Ms Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Ms T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, RISL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Ms Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I have also considered the impact on Ms T of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £200 should be paid to Ms T by RISL for what they 
referred to as the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into 
consideration Ms Ts age, circumstances and the substantial amount shed built up in her 
pension to that date; Ms T had built up her pension over a long time. Also, by retirement this 
DB pension would have been a very substantial part of her overall pension entitlement so I 
think the thought of losing any benefits would have negatively impacted Ms T. 
So, I agree that RISL should also pay Ms T £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the unsuitable advice which has likely had an impact on her retirement planning.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct Retirement & 
Investment Solutions Limited to pay Ms T the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Retirement & Investment Solutions Limited pays Ms T the balance. If Ms T accepts this 
decision, the money award becomes binding on Retirement & Investment Solutions Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman