DRN-3728670
The complaint
Mr F complains that an overdraft attached to his Nationwide Building Society current account 
was one where the charges and interest were too high. He considers them to have been 
unfair and wants them refunded. 
Later Mr F made it clear that he also complains about several decades. And that he has 
suffered from an institutional conspiracy for decades. 
What happened
Nationwide had received Mr Fs complaint and issued a final response letter (FRL) dated 
25 May 2021 in which it said that the overdraft fees and charges had been debited properly 
and in accordance with the terms and conditions. It was an Arranged Overdraft agreement 
and accepted that it dated back many years. 
Mr F referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in July 2021. 
Mr F has raised a complaint about his Nationwide credit card which was separated from this 
one and was created into a separate complaint referral and has been dealt with separately to 
this complaint about his overdraft.  
Copies of Mr Fs bank account statements since 7 April 2016 have been sent to us by 
Nationwide.
In January 2022 one of our adjudicators gave his view after reviewing the evidence and he 
came to the opinion that Nationwide acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft fees 
from 1 May 2016 to date. His view was:
Mr F hadnt seen [sic] or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. 
Nationwides own literature suggests that overdrafts are supposed to be for 
unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think 
that Nationwide should have realised that Mr F wasnt using his overdraft  as 
intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms.
Our adjudicators proposed resolution was that Nationwide should rework Mr Fs account to 
remove all the interest and charges added to Mr Fs account from 1 May 2016. 
Both parties took time to reply. 
In March 2022 Mr F said that he knew Nationwide was entitled to charge reasonable fees on 
overdraft in line with other banks. But Mr Fs view was that it should only charge fees where 
the credit limit on the overdraft (for him £3,000) was exceeded. Mr F said that for 20 years 
Nationwide had been charging him ridiculous amounts every month whether he was within 
his limit or not.
In June 2022 Nationwide wrote to make an offer to settle the complaint which was effectively 
that it agreed with what our adjudicator had said. The effective start date for the reworking of 
the account was 1 May 2016. Mr F was informed of this. 
Mr Fs response was to say that he wants his bitter experience with Nationwide for the past 
25 years (and beyond) looked at. And the current offer should be made clear by giving him 
actual calculations. 
And later Mr F said that he had suffered institutional conspiracy for 38 years and he wanted 
our adjudicator to address this and consider compensation for that. Mr F raised the human 
rights aspect of the complaint. 
In August 2022, Nationwide calculated that the refund of charges would be £3,328.26 but 
any 8% additional sum could only be finalised once the settlement date is known. Our 
adjudicator wrote again to Mr F with a copy of his original view from January 2022 plus an 
indication that Nationwides response was to agree with his view  and an indication of the 
redress figures. 
Mr F had some queries surrounding the 8% on credit which he did not understand. He 
wanted to know why it had been limited to May 2016 and not before. 
Our adjudicator explained that we would not be looking at anything further back than six 
years. And The 8% interest is only given if after Nationwide has applied the refund to the 
current account it clears the overdraft and there remains a credit balance on the account. 
The 8% interest will not be given if the account is still overdrawn once the offer has been 
applied, as an overdrawn balance is money that is borrowed from Nationwide and money 
owed  to them.
Mr F was not content and responded to say raise a series of issues he had surrounding 
three decades of bitter experience with Nationwide and institutional conspiracy which 
included his view that Nationwide had inflicted  maximum financial losses on me, my 
family, and my business for reasons best known to them.
In September 2022 our adjudicator addressed the points surrounding Mr Fs continued upset 
with Nationwide. He did not think that any further compensation was due to Mr F. 
Our adjudicator also issued a separate view relating to the jurisdiction elements  meaning  
why it was that the Financial Ombudsman Service could not look at his complaint about 
charges before 1 May 2016, being six years before he had complained. 
Mr F was given until 28 September 2022 to respond on the jurisdiction view and has not 
responded. 
Mr F has sent no details surrounding the other issues. 
Mr F has not accepted Nationwides agreement to refund him in line with our adjudicators 
recommended resolution. So, the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The overdraft element of Mr Fs complaint
Mr F did not respond to the jurisdiction letter of opinion and from that it seems he accepted 
it. Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that Nationwide acted unfairly when 
it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 1 May 2016. At this point, it 
ought to have been clear that Mr F was in no position to sustainably repay what he owed 
within a reasonable period. 
This is because, by this time, Mr F was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen 
or maintained a credit balance for an extended period. Ive seen Mr Fs bank statements 
since May 2016 and he was very rarely in credit since this time. He usually had a significant 
overdraft balance.   
Nationwides own literature suggests that overdrafts are for short term or emergency use. 
So, an overdraft shouldnt have been used for prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So, I think that Mr Fs overdraft usage should have prompted Nationwide to have realised 
that Mr F wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. As Nationwide didnt react to Mr Fs overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr F ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So, I think that Nationwide 
didnt treat Mr F fairly and he lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Nationwide has agreed to put things right for Mr F and Mr F has had an indication of the 
calculated refund before this decision was issued. Those will need to be updated due to the 
passage of time since those were originally done. 
The other elements of Mr Fs complaint 
I am sorry to read that Mr F feels he had a bitter experience for 38 years. I know that he has 
referred to other institutions but I am dealing with Nationwide so I am not making any 
observations or findings about any other institutions. 
I note that Mr F has referred to his business and his family  suggesting that they have 
suffered loss as well. I cannot address those parts relating to others in a complaint raised by 
Mr F as a customer of Nationwide. I can only consider that part that may affect Mr F.
Mr F has raised these points several times but has never provided any evidence or 
explanations as to why he feels he is entitled to more compensation. Mr F has had time to 
do this. 
Our adjudicator did not think that anything further in the way of redress or compensation was 
due to Mr F and reading what I have read from Mr F, I agree. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint for Nationwide to put things right in relation to the 
overdraft by:Reworking Mr Fs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 1 May 2016 are removed.
and
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Mr F to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, and Mr F is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with it to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Mr Fs credit file, Nationwide should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 
May 2016. Nationwide can reduce Mr Fs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if 
it considers it appropriate to do so, if doing so wouldnt leave Mr F over their limit.
or
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr F along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file. 
Nationwide can reduce Mr Fs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and I direct that Nationwide 
Building Society does as I have outlined above as it has already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman