DRN-2981964
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined to pay her 
home insurance claim for theft and malicious damage.
What happened
In February 2018 Mrs B contacted RSA to advise it that she had agreed that a friend and her 
two children could come and stay at her home. RSA responded and advised her that the 
friend would be regarded as a tenant, and it would have to apply conditions to the policy in 
respect of the contents regarding theft and malicious damage, and remove accidental 
damage cover for both buildings and contents. Mrs B was unhappy with this, but RSA 
advised that this was a normal household policy and if she required greater cover she should 
consider going to a specialist provider. When renewal documents were issued in August 
2018 it was noted on the policy schedule that the property was tenanted.
In November 2018 Mrs B went abroad to meet up with her husband where he was working. 
She returned in December and found that the friend had moved in her mother and pets. She 
asked for the mother to leave and was told she had gone the next day. She also discovered 
that the friend had been running up catalogue debts in her name and she decided to ask her 
to leave. She obtained legal advice and hand delivered a letter to the friend in February 
2019, giving her four weeks to leave. She says the property seemed to be in good order 
then.
Mrs B returned to the house about four weeks later to find that the friend had moved out. But 
the house had been vandalised. Some rooms had been spray-painted and plaster gouged 
from the walls. She also found items missing including clothing, electronic equipment and 
jewellery. She reported it to the police, but no action could be taken as the friend denied 
responsibility.
Mrs B reported the claim to RSA at the time, but was told the claim wouldnt be covered. She 
was referred to a solicitor for free legal advice. When Mrs B renewed her policy later that 
year she says she was encouraged to proceed with a claim and did so.
RSA said the claim wasnt covered. At first it said that because the friend was a tenant she 
became the insured and there is no cover for theft or damage by the insured. It subsequently 
said that the endorsements it had applied to the policy meant that, in respect of the contents 
cover for theft and malicious damage was excluded unless there was forcible and violent 
entry or exit from the home. It also said the policy excluded such cover fpr buildings and 
contents when the property had been occupied for more than sixty days in a row by anyone 
other than the Insured or resident domestic employees.
Mrs B said the friend occasionally stayed away so hadnt been there for sixty days in a row. She 
further said she had been forced not to go back to the home from December 2018 as the friend 
had had her mother there and she would have been unable to use her own bedroom. She also 
said the shed door had been removed and the back door had been forced.
After investigation by this service our investigator concluded that RSA had fairly applied the 
exclusion in respect of theft and malicious damage as the friend had been in occupation of the 
property for more than sixty days, without Mrs B being present.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has claimed for theft and malicious damage caused by the friend who stayed at the 
property from March 2018 to March 2019. She had advised RSA of this and RSA in turn had 
noted the friends presence on the policy. Whilst she may not technically have been a tenant 
(as she paid no rent and didnt have exclusive occupation of the house) RSA noted her as 
being a tenant. The policy schedule from August 2018 notes that the property is tenanted. 
RSA also advised Mrs B that it would apply conditions in respect of the friend:
Under the contents section no cover for:
Malicious acts or vandalism or theft or attempted theft unless force and violence has 
been used to get into or out of the home
the cost of alternative accommodation for any tenants
Full accidental damage cover
Under the buildings no cover for
the costs of alternative accommodation for any tenants
Full accidental damage cover.
It explained that it was unable to provide unrestricted cover and that if Mrs B sought that she 
should look at a specialist provider. As a far as I can see Mrs B allowed that cover to 
continue and didnt seek any additional cover..
When Mrs B made the claim for theft and damage by malicious persons, RSA told her at first 
that when she notified it bout the friends presence, that friend became the insured and that 
the policy excludes any loss or damage by the insured. I think thats wrong, if as noted on 
the policy the friend is a tenant she wouldnt come within the definition of the insured in the 
policy, which is spouse or partner, children (including adopted and foster children), parents 
and other relatives who normally reside with you. 
RSA then advised Mrs B that an exclusion for loss or damage by malicious acts or theft (in 
respect of both buildings and contents) applied:
Except where there is forcible and violent entry or exit, damage while your house or any 
part of it has been occupied for more than 60 days in a row by anyone other than the insured 
or resident domestic employees.
As it said the friend had occupied the property for more than 60 days in a row, RSA has 
declined the whole claim. Mrs B says:
The friend wasnt there for more than 60 days in a row  she left occasionally to stay 
overnight elsewhere
The mother wasnt there for more than 60 days  as far as she knew when she asked 
her to leave she had done so, although neighbours have said she was seen around the 
property after that.She couldnt return to the property in December 2018 as the friends mother was 
occupying her room. Due to health reasons she has to sleep in a special bed in her room 
which the mother had taken over.
She asked the friend to leave in December 2018 but the friend only left after receiving 
the notice in February 2019.
The shed door had been removed and the back door had been forced.
My view is that the exclusion Ive referred to above applies to the whole time that the friend 
was living in Mrs Bs home. It refers to the house or any part of it. As can be seen from 
RSAs response to Mrs B telling it about the friend, the presence of a tenant is regarded as 
an additional risk. And RSA imposed the additional conditions because of that risk. Most 
ordinary home policies wont cover damage or theft by a tenant or lodger. And Mrs B was 
advised that if she wanted additional cover for the friend, she should look to a specialist 
provider.
So I think the 60 days started to run from the time the friend moved in. Being occupied 
doesnt necessarily mean the person has to be physically there every day. So long as the 
friend was living there as their main residence, then they can be said to be in occupation. 
And the evidence Ive seen indicates to me that the friend was living there until she left 
following the notice given to her.
Ive considered Mrs Bs points that she was forced to live elsewhere until the friend left. As 
our investigator has noted, and from the above statements, shes been inconsistent about 
her reasons for this. The indications are that the bedroom was available to her but in light of 
the bad feeling caused by the friends behaviour she felt unable to return there  she 
confirmed she wasnt forced out of her home.
In any event Ive considered whether it was fair to apply the exclusion from the time the 
friend was asked to leave. I think bearing in mind that the friends position, from the policys 
point of view, was that she was a tenant, any damage or theft by such tenant wouldnt be 
covered.
Finally while the door being damaged could be evidence of violent entry to or from the 
house, the simple fact is that the friend had her own keys and could come and go as she 
pleased. She wouldnt have needed to damage the door to do this. I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that an unknown third party forced their way in and caused the damage 
in question. And the shed door wasnt used for entry to the house.
So overall, whilst I understand that Mrs B suffered traumatic loss and damage to her home, 
Im afraid that under the terms of the policy this isnt covered. I think that RSA fairly applied 
the exclusion for such loss and damage.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021
. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman