DRN-4289674
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) Plc trading as Redline Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2022, Miss M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Redline. She paid a deposit of £1,150 and the agreement was for £11,845 over 60 months; 
with monthly payments of £232.82. At the time of supply, the car was around six and a half 
years old and had done 64,606 miles (according to the MOT record for 22 June 2022).
Miss M has said she had problems with the car shortly after it was supplied to her, and she 
raised these with the supplying dealership on 23 July 2022. She said a service required 
message came up on the dashboard; a brake fault light illuminated but didnt stay on; the car 
was sluggish when accelerating and took time to change gears; there was a rattling noise; 
and the odometer was showing an incorrect speed. The dealership advised Miss M to 
contact her local manufacturers dealership, who would be able to complete any repairs 
under warranty.
It wasnt until 6 January 2023 that Miss M took the car to a manufacturers dealership, where 
it was inspected. It was found that the timing chain needed replacement and an oil leak 
meant the turbocharger also needed replacing. Miss M attempted to rent a car, from a third-
party provider, in the name of the supplying dealership, to keep herself mobile. However, the 
supplying dealership cancelled this transaction before the hire car could be provided.
Instead, Miss M was provided with a courtesy car from 3 February 2023, and her alternative 
transport costs for the period 6 January to 3 February 2023 were reimbursed to her. The 
repairs to the car were completed, and it was returned to Miss M at the end of March 2023.
In April 2023, Miss M complained there were still faults with the car  the engine 
management light came on intermittently and there was a noise when the car accelerated. 
She followed this up with an email saying the car wasnt working and smoke was coming out 
from under the bonnet, asking for the car to be repaired or replaced.
A further repair to the car took place, and Miss M was again provided with a courtesy car.
Redline responded to Miss Ms complaint. They said that the car had been repaired and that 
miss M had been kept mobile while these repairs were taking place. So, they didnt uphold 
the complaint. However, they did offer Miss M the refund of one monthly payment as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Miss M wasnt happy with the offer made by Redline. She thought she should be 
compensated £3,500 for her loss of earnings and an additional £1,000 for being without a 
courtesy car in January 2023. She also thought she should be refunded £3,500 of the 
payments shes made as she wasnt able to use the car at its full potential, refunded £900 of 
the insurance and warranty costs shed paid, and paid an additional £5,000 for the distress 
shed been caused.
Our investigator considered all the facts and evidence and said it wasnt disputed there was 
a fault with the car, which made it of an unsatisfactory quality. But, as the car had been 
repaired, she thought that Redlines offer was reasonable, and they didnt need to do 
anything more.
Miss M disagreed with the investigator. She thought that Redline were obliged to provide a 
like-for-like replacement car as a resolution to her complaint, and that this shouldve been 
done within six-months of the car being supplied to her. And she was unhappy they delayed 
matters by five months before trying to address the issues. She also said that she hadnt 
fully benefitted from the insurance and warranty on the car while it was being repaired, so 
she thought this should also be refunded to her.
With regards to her loss of earnings, Miss M said the constant need for repairs and the 
subsequent unavailability of the vehicle affected my ability to commute and carry out work-
related tasks efficiently. It caused undue stress and frustration, ultimately leading to a loss of 
enjoyment in driving the car. While I appreciate the gesture of one month's instalment 
offered by Redline, I believe it does not adequately compensate for the overall impact and 
inconvenience I have endured.
Miss M also said that Redline disregarded her disability and denied her rights, violating anti-
discrimination laws and further exacerbating the harm caused to her physical and mental 
health.
In addition to this, Miss M raised issues of false advertising, misrepresentation, failure to 
offer alternative finance options, and discrimination by the supplying dealership during the 
process of the purchase and supply of the car.
The investigator explained that Miss Ms concerns about the dealership were being dealt 
with separately, so didnt form part of her view.
Because Miss M didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Redline are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Redline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss M to show it was present when 
the car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss M took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Redline to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there was a problem with the car, nor that this fault was 
present when the car was supplied to Miss M. As such, Im satisfied that I dont need to 
consider the merits of this issue within my decision. Instead, Ill focus on what, if anything, I 
think Redline should do to put things right.
Miss M was provided with the car on 14 July 2022. While she has referred to a six-month 
right of rejection within her communication, section 22 of the CRA only allows for a 30-day 
short-term right to reject. And, while Miss M raised issues about the car within 30-days of the 
car being supplied to her, I havent seen anything to show me she asked Redline to reject 
the car within the first 30-days.
Miss M has referred to the five-month delay in getting the car inspected, and the severe 
impact this had on her, especially as she believed she was driving a car that wasnt 
roadworthy. Ive considered this delay and seen that Miss M was unable to arrange to take 
her car to be inspected due to a period of illness, a period of holiday, and dealerships being 
closed during the Christmas / New Year break. Ive also seen that she was offered multiple 
dates to bring the car in for inspection, none of which she said were suitable for her.
Given this, Im satisfied that the delay in the car being inspected between 23 July 2022 and 6 
January 2023 was down to Miss M, not Redline. As such, I dont think its reasonable for the 
30-day short-term right to reject to be extended to cover this period. And, while this delay 
was inconvenient to Miss M and caused her some distress, I dont think Redline should 
compensate her for this.
In circumstances where goods supplied are of an unsatisfactory quality, the CRA allows for 
repair OR replacement. While I appreciate Miss M wanted replacement, I dont think this was 
a practical option in this case. I say this because of the make, model, age and mileage of the 
car supplied to Miss M would make it very difficult, if not impossible, to source a like-for-like 
replacement. As such, I dont think Redline have acted unreasonably by offering repair 
instead, especially as this is an option allowable under the CRA.
In her comments on the view, Miss M has said the repairs on the car were unsuccessful. 
However, this contradicts what Redline have said. In these instances, I would look for 
evidence to back up the opposing views. In this case Im looking for some evidence that the 
repair was unsuccessful, or that faults that were present or developing at the point of supply 
remain unrepaired. And I havent seen anything, for example a report from an independent 
engineer, to show me that was the case. So, based on what Ive seen, and given the lack of 
any evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied the repairs were successful.
When repairs have been successful, the CRA doesnt allow for the right to reject. So, I wont 
be asking Redline to either replace the car, or to allow Miss M to reject it.Its not disputed that, for most of the time the car was in for repair, Miss M was provided with 
a courtesy car. And when she wasnt, her alternate transport costs (taxis) have been 
refunded to her. As such, Im satisfied that Miss M was kept mobile during this period.
Miss M has raised the issue of disability discrimination as, despite having a valid disability 
badge, I was without a vehicle for a month, incurring inconvenience and financial burden. 
However, for the reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied that Miss Ms transport costs 
were covered during this period. So, I dont agree there was an additional financial burden. 
Whats more, I havent seen anything that suggests Miss M received lesser treatment or 
support because of her disability than would be provided to any other customer. As such, I 
dont agree that Miss M has been discriminated against because of her disability.
However, I do agree that she was caused some inconvenience, which I will address later in 
my decision.
Miss M was provided with a courtesy car that wasnt on a like-for-like basis for the car shed 
been supplied with by Redline. And shes explained how she felt this affected both her 
brand, and that she wasnt getting the car she was paying for.
As Miss M was kept mobile while her car was in for repair (including the period when the 
courtesy car wasnt provided) I think its only fair she pays for this usage. However, given the 
issues with the courtesy car, Im also satisfied that Miss Ms usage and enjoyment of the car 
has been impaired. Because of this, I also think its fair that Redline refund some of the 
payments Miss M made. And I think 5% of the payments made between January and May 
2023 fairly reflects the impaired use caused by the courtesy car not being of a like-for-like 
basis. This equates to £58.21.
Miss M has also said shes lost out on £3,500 earnings during the time her car was in for 
repair. She hasnt provided any evidence of this, and Ive seen that Miss M was kept mobile 
during this period. So, while it wasnt in the car supplied by Redline, she was able to travel to 
and from her places of work. As such, I wont be asking Redline to compensate Miss M for 
this.
Miss M has also said shes paid for insurance and warranty on the car, while she wasnt able 
to use it. With regards to the warranty, this covers a specific period, during which the 
warranty was still providing cover for any other issues that may arise. So, I dont agree the 
warranty wasnt of any benefit. And I wont be asking Redline to refund these costs.
With regards to the insurance, Miss M is both legally, and under the terms of the agreement 
she signed with Redline, required to ensure the car was insured. And the insurance covered 
the car for any perils i.e., fire or theft, throughout the period of repair. Whats more, Miss M 
wasnt required to separately insure the courtesy car while she was using this. As such, she 
was still paying for a car insurance while driving an insured car on the road (or having one 
available to drive). Given this, I also wont be asking Redline to refund these costs.
Its also clear that Miss M has been distressed and inconvenienced by what has happened, 
and I think Redline should compensate her for this. Given the circumstances, and taking 
everything into consideration, I would normally recommend around £150 to £200. Which, 
when added to the impaired usage, would bring the total payment Id expect Redline to pay 
to be in the region of £200 to £250.
Redline have already offered Miss M the refund of one payment - £232.82  which falls 
within the range of what Id expect them to pay. As such, I wont be asking Redline to amend 
their offer, and its now for Miss M to decide whether to accept this.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Toyota Financial 
Services (UK) Plc trading as Redline Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman