DRN-4271339
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Aviva Insurance Limited and its handling of a claim under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
References to Avia include the acts and/or omissions of its agents involved in handling and 
dealing with the claim.
What happened
The summary background is that Mrs B reported (late September 2022) blocked toilets 
upstairs in her home and Aviva attended to unblock and restore flow. It became apparent 
around two months later that the issue hadnt been resolved and further attendances were 
required. There were also occasions where appointments were not attended by Aviva.  
By January 2023 the problem remained, but a single cause hadnt been accurately identified 
and in trying to identify and release the blockage damage was caused to pipework. It 
remains the position at time of writing that the issue is still unresolved.
Aviva accepted its contractors delayed matters and that not all issues were identified. It 
offered £750 compensation which Mrs B has refused as insufficient for the impact the poor 
claim handling and communication has had on her.
Our investigator explained Aviva had provided poor service but considered £750 
compensation fairly reflected the considerable impact on Mrs B. He said there was a two-
month period where Aviva hadnt been called to advise of any recurring issue and so it 
couldnt know a problem persisted. Mrs B didnt think the investigator had considered the lies 
shed been told or the fact the problem hadnt been resolved.
Mrs B has asked for an Ombudsman to make a final determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role is to resolve complaints quickly and with minimal formality. Im aware Mrs B has 
made various allegations about Aviva lying, and issues such as leakage from the soil pipe 
and damage caused. Ive considered everything she and Aviva have sent but that doesnt 
mean Ill mention every single point in this decision. Thats not intended to be discourteous 
but a reflection of our informal nature. Where we uphold a complaint, we can make a money 
award and / or direction on how things should be put right. Details of how we make 
compensatory awards are available on our website but what we dont do is make punitive 
awards.
For the avoidance of doubt, Im looking at matters up to Avivas final response letter of 5 May 
2023. I appreciate matters are still yet to be resolved but a schedule is in place to rectify the 
issues. Once final work has taken place then it will be for Mrs B to liaise with Aviva if shes 
unhappy with the results. Aviva will need an opportunity to address Mrs Bs concerns from 
after 5 May 2023. If Mrs B remains unhappy with Avivas final response at that point, she 
would be free to ask us to look into those outstanding issues.
Industry rules require Aviva to handle claims promptly and fairly. By the time of the final 
response letter in May almost eight months had passed from the blockage first arising. I bear 
in mind there was a near two-month period between the first attendance and the second call-
out, so it would be unreasonable to assign blame to Aviva for that period when it appeared 
the problem had resolved. 
From the end of November to early May (over 5 months) Avivas handling was neither 
prompt nor fair. The persistent toilet blockage in a home with a young child was undoubtedly 
distressing for Mrs B. Her policy was specifically for drainage and plumbing problems, and 
so in providing fair claim-handling its expected that Aviva has the relevant competent agents 
to deal with associated insured perils in a competent way, especially as the policy states 
Avivas engineers will normally carry out work.
Im not satisfied the claim was dealt with competently because of the numerous attempts to 
complete repairs, missed appointments and Mrs B having to do so much chasing. While I 
appreciate things dont always go to plan where repairs are attempted, its how things are 
rectified that are important and this hadnt happened by May 2023. I appreciate Mrs B 
alleges she was lied to but Im not so persuaded. I accept she was given incorrect 
information but from what Ive seen Im more inclined to put it down to incompetence.
Turning to how things should be put right, Im satisfied Avivas poor handling has had a 
considerable impact. The impact was over several months after late November whereas I 
think Aviva should have been able to resolve the repairs by the end of the year or at least in 
January. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that £750 for the period up to 5 May 2022 is a 
reasonable amount.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited as Im satisfied the offer of 
£750 compensation was fair. If Avivas hasnt yet paid that amount to Mrs B then it should do 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman