DRN-3637373
The Complaint
Mr R says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product in July 
2007. 
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Rs because they stem from a 
loan in his sole name. However, as the holiday product looks like it was purchased by Mr R 
and Ms C, Ill refer to Mr R and Ms C at times in this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr R and Ms C purchased membership of a holiday club in July 2007 from a third party (the 
Supplier) and helped to finance that purchase using a loan from BPF in Mr Rs name (the 
Credit Agreement).
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr R made claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA on 20 March 2019 using a professional 
representative (LF) (the Letter of Claim). There were a large number of reasons for the 
claims. But as both sides are familiar with them, I wont repeat them here.
It doesnt look like BPF got Mr Rs claims. So, a complaint was referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in October 2019. It was then looked at by an investigator who, having 
considered the information available, concluded that the claims had been made out of time 
under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
Mr R, who was now represented by a different professional representative (PR), disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision without giving any reasons why. So, the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I dont think theres a reason to uphold this complaint. I realise this will 
be disappointing for Mr R. But I hope he understands why Ive come to that conclusion.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under
Section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie
& Ors [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is
an action founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr R made a like claim against BPF under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation period 
for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. And as noted at 
paragraph 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice (Issue 68 (April
2022)), BPF may adopt any defence that would have been or would be open to the
Supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim
against the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that,
to the extent that the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the
creditor may shelter behind that exclusion or limitation. Conversely, the creditor's
right to repayment is so closely connected with the supply contract, and the debtor's
statutory rights under sub-s (1), that the debtor may assert a right of set-off in
diminution or extinguishment of his liability to the creditor, and as a defence in
proceedings brought by the creditor (with or without a counter-claim). Any attempt to
exclude the right of set-off will fall foul of CCA 1974, s 173(1) (and would in any case
fall within [section 13(1)(b) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977])
So, this means that Mr R had six years from the date on which the cause of action
accrued to make a claim.
On this occasion, the cause of action accrued when Mr R entered into the purchase and 
Credit Agreements. I say this because it was when he entered into the purchase agreement 
that the Letter of Claim says he did so based on the misrepresentations of the Supplier  
which he relied on. And as the loan from BPF was used to help finance the purchase, it
was when he entered into the Credit Agreement that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued when Mr R entered into the purchase 
agreement or, if later, the Credit Agreement  which means he had six years from either of 
those points in time to make a claim. But as he didnt do that until March 2019, his claim is 
likely to have been late. And for that reason, I think BPF had and has a defence to it.
The Section 140A Claim
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr R and BPF was
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does.
However, with that said, Ive considered the provisions under the LA as it also applies to 
claims under Section 140A. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that the time for limitation 
purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the 
claim was made. As the limitation period is six years, and as this claim was only made in 
March 2019, I think BPF is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to this claim too as Mr R 
doesnt dispute that the loan was settled and his account was closed more than six years 
before the claim in question was made. So, I see no reason to ask BPF to do anything 
further in relation to this claim either.
Grounds to Extend Time
On my reading of the LA, it provides for time to be extended in certain circumstances rather
than simply because Mr R didnt know that he could make his claims against BPF. And given 
the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that theres a reason why time might 
be extended in keeping with the provisions of the LA. 
ConclusionUltimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr R may have against
the Supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information
available, thats likely to have been the case. So, I dont think theres anything BPF has to do 
to put things right on this occasion.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman