DRN-4275385
The complaint
A company I will refer to as L, complains about the decision of National Westminster Bank 
Plc to decline its application for a business bank account. L is also unhappy that National 
Westminster Bank Plc has not explained why it made its decision. 
Mr J, a director of L, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a brief summary of the events. In March 2023, L applied 
for a business bank account with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). NatWest 
considered the application, but declined it. Mr J raised a complaint about this, on Ls behalf. 
NatWest said that the application had been processed correctly, but that it did not advise any 
potential customers of the reason that a particular application has been declined. The 
reasoning behind this is to ensure that customers who look to apply again after a decline are 
not able to circumvent the Banks security procedures.
Mr J brought Ls complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. However, our Investigator 
did not think NatWest had acted inappropriately and did not uphold the complaint. Mr J 
remained unsatisfied. He thought NatWest had declined the application due to an error on its 
part, and said that other banks had provided L with an account. Mr J felt NatWest should 
explain the reasons for declining the application, and referred to recent media interest in a 
similar issue. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as our Investigator, largely for the 
same reasons. 
As long as it does not act unlawfully or discriminate against a potential customer, largely 
speaking, a bank is entitled to determine who it decides to start doing business with. 
NatWest, as with all banks, needs to satisfy itself of certain things before it will agree to do 
business with a customer. These factors can change between different banks, but each bank 
is largely able to set the limits relating to its decision making. 
I should point out that the circumstances of Ls complaint are different from those recently in 
the media. This complaint concerned the start of a new commercial relationship, rather than 
a decision to withdraw services already offered.
Based on the evidence provided, I do not consider NatWest most likely came to its decision 
mistakenly. It considered the information available to it and made a commercial decision. 
This decision was not made for unlawful or discriminatory reasons. 
I appreciate it would be helpful for Mr J to know the reasons why Ls application was 
declined, as this would allay any concerns he has about the process. But there are good 
reasons why a bank will not explain all of the factors that go into its decision making process. 
And NatWest set these out to Mr J. 
Taking all of the circumstances into account, I am satisfied NatWest acted fairly and 
reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman