DRN-1769439
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).  
What happened
Mr and Mrs G jointly took out a mortgage with NatWest in 2009. At the same time they took 
out a regular premium MPPI policy to cover their mortgage payments. The policy wouldve 
covered repayments on the mortgage if Mr and Mrs G couldnt work due to sickness or 
accident or lost their jobs for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr and 
Mrs G wouldve understood they had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for them.
Mr and Mrs G disagree. So their complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
NatWest had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs G that they had a choice in taking the policy. Mr 
and Mrs G say this wasnt done, but they havent given us much detail about why they 
thought this which is understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. So 
Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information I have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened.
NatWest have given us a print out of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage application. I can see on it 
there is a section that deals with MPPI that has the option of either applying for or declining 
MPPI. I can see that the application shows Mr and Mrs G wished to apply for MPPI to cover 
them both and the cost of the premium is also listed.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage declaration signed and dated by Mr and Mrs G which 
confirms with a X in the relevant boxes that insurances that were discussed and selected at 
the time they took out their mortgage. And on the offer document in the insurance section it 
highlights that MPPI is optional and shows the cost of the monthly premium. 
So on balance I think Mr and Mrs G were given enough information to understand MPPI was 
on offer and was optional. And I think Mr and Mrs G chose to take MPPI because they 
wanted the cover. I havent seen anything to suggest NatWest advised Mr and Mrs G to take out the policy. 
What this means is that I dont think it recommended MPPI to Mr and Mrs G based on their 
individual circumstances, it just gave them information about MPPI and it was up to them to 
decide if they needed it. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so they could make an informed choice about taking out the policy.
I dont know if NatWest gave all the information as it shouldve. But I think that Mr and Mrs G 
wouldve still taken out the policy if NatWest had done more because:
They were eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like they wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs G say they were entitled to sick pay and had 
savings they could use to help with mortgage payments if they couldnt work. But a 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially 
longer covering them for up to 12 months if they were unable to work.
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs G in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for them. And if they decided 
they no longer wanted the policy they couldve cancelled it.
 
This means Mr and Mrs G arent any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by NatWest.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs G's complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Pl.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman