DRN-2969791
The complaint
Mr Os complaint concerns a margin violation and subsequent liquidation of positions on his 
trading account with Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IBUK).
What happened
Mr O opened his account with IBUK in 2007 and has regularly traded options since then. His 
complaint concerns a Tesla position he held on 2 June 2020 that consisted of two legs  four 
long calls and four short calls. 
This position didnt have a margin requirement as it stood and Mr Os understanding was 
that this would remain the case, with the two legs effectively offsetting each other. However, 
when his account was assigned the short leg of his option spread and, as a result, 400 
short shares of Tesla stock, a new protective call spread position was created, which 
resulted in a margin violation. Mr O was sent warnings about the violation and shortly after 
IBUK began liquidating positions on the account  first the Tesla positions, then others  to 
bring the account back to into compliance. 
When Mr O became aware of what had happened, he complained to IBUK. It responded to 
confirm the nature of the margin violation and maintained that it had liquidated the positions 
in accordance with its terms. Mr O remained dissatisfied with IBUKs explanation, so referred 
the matter to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter and, having received more detail from IBUK, 
concluded that it had acted correctly. She explained that the key point in respect of the 
margin violation was that the Tesla options contracts were American-style, meaning that 
holders could exercise the option rights at any time before the day of expiration of the 
contract (in this case 19 June 2020)  in contrast to European-style contracts that allow 
execution only on the day of expiration. This being so, the offsetting that Mr O had expected 
to be a feature of his position didnt work, as there was no way to determine the intentions of 
the long option holder  ie when the corresponding rights might be exercised. 
Although the original option call spread didnt have margin requirement, the assignment of 
the short leg without assignment of the long leg created a new position called a Protective 
Call Spread. This did have a margin requirement, and the qualifying equity on Mr Os 
account wasnt insufficient to satisfy it, so the liquidation of positions of the account became 
necessary. 
The investigator concluded that these had been carried out correctly, in accordance with the 
terms of the account as accepted by Mr O, so there was no basis on which the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Mr O responded to the investigators view acknowledging the circumstances that had 
created the margin requirement. But he disputed the way in which the liquidation of positions 
had been carried out, in respect of the timing and the specific positions selected to close. He 
questioned why his Tesla positions hadnt all been closed, with other positions that were less 
beneficial to him being chosen instead. 
The investigator reiterated her view that IBUK had acted in accordance with its terms when 
liquidating the positions. But she sought some further detail on Mr Os point about the order 
of the liquidations. In response, IBUK confirmed that the positions were closed in line with 
their respective cost of liquidation. 
Mr O nevertheless remained unsatisfied, so the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im satisfied the margin requirement created on Mr Os account regarding the Tesla position 
was correct. It was, as noted, a consequence of the style of option involved and appears to 
have been a potential issue of which Mr O wasnt aware. I understand his frustration with 
this, but as an execution-only service, it was his responsibility to ensure he was fully 
conversant with the way in which different options work. 
That said, I think Mr Os primary concern lies the subsequent liquidation of positions 
following the creation of the new margin requirement. He feels he wasnt given sufficient time 
to understand what had happened and to act. And that the way in which IBUK chose to close 
the positions was carried out with a focus in its own best interests, rather than in a way that 
would have helped mitigate his position. 
I note that Mr O was sent warning messages about the margin violation. I accept he may not 
have been aware of this at the time, as he wouldnt have been expecting to receive them, 
unaware that the situation could arise with the Tesla position. But it remained his 
responsibility to monitor his account at all times and ensure he maintained sufficient margin 
equity.
The terms of the account that he agreed to set out that liquidation of positions could occur in 
response to a margin violation and that it was IBUKs right to decide how this would be done 
 the account holder would not be entitled to control the process. As with any term of 
business, I would expect IBUK to act fairly when implementing it, but Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it failed to do so on this occasion. Its actions appear to have been in accordance 
with the terms and general industry practice. 
In summary, I sympathise with Mr Os situation and can understand why he was shocked 
and disappointed by what occurred. But in all the circumstances Im satisfied that IBUK 
acted correctly and fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman