DRN-2698635
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs H took out (jointly with 
her husband, who has since died) with Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. The mortgage 
started in 2000 and was increased by way of a further advance in 2005. The complaint has 
been brought by Mr K, Mrs Hs son-in-law. The complaint Mr K brought to Aviva in February 
2020 was grouped under three broad headings:
Bad advice at the point of sale  Mrs H wasnt warned about the long-term risk of a 
fixed rate mortgage if rates generally were then to fall. The 2005 further advance was on 
a lower rate so the original advance should have been re-mortgaged at the same rate. A 
normal mortgage would have been better advice as Mrs H and her husband had enough 
pension to make monthly payments.
Unfair product construction  a variable rate (Mr K suggests base rate plus 2%) would 
have been fairer than a fixed rate. 
Given how much the debt has already increased by, applying an early repayment charge 
(ERC) isnt fair.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to approximately fifteen hundred pages of 
documents. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less 
relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents 
and repetition of arguments. 
I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, using my own 
words to do so. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal service we 
provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because 
I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another 
reason is that much of what Ive been asked to consider fall outside my remit. Ill explain why 
in due course.
Mrs H and her husband took the mortgage out in 2000, and increased it in 2005. The first 
mortgage was on a fixed rate of 8.25%, the further advance on a fixed rate of 6.99%. The 
terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is that 
the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time residential 
nursing care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events 
have happened, but then an ERC is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
This complaint has arisen because Mrs H is now in her nineties, and her family are trying to 
anticipate and plan for her future care requirements. Theyre unhappy that Aviva wont agree 
to apply a different rate to the mortgage retrospectively and/or waive the ERC, to give Mrs H 
more options.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr K asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the case study that Mr K and a consortium of his friends have compiled to 
draw out what they regard as fundamental flaws in the equity release product. But Ill make 
some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs H and her husband 
were consumers, and so each met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our 
rules. Following her husbands death, Mrs H became sole eligible complainant. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr K is 
bringing the complaint on his mother-in-laws behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mr K represents his mother-in-law, it is Mrs H who is 
Avivas customer. Its Mr Ks role is to bring the complaint on her behalf, in the same way 
that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a 
complaint. But this does not entitle Mr K to air his own grievances about Aviva, because he 
is not its customer; his role is limited to putting forward Mrs Hs complaint.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant times) and considered generally whether Aviva did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out and extended. In doing that, I can give no 
regard to the regulatory standards in place now, or to any hindsight that the intervening 
years might have brought.
Advice at the point of sale
Im only able to consider the sale of the further advance in 2005. An ombudsman colleague 
has already issued a separate decision on jurisdiction explaining why we have no power to 
consider if the initial mortgage was mis-sold. Ive looked at what my fellow ombudsman said 
in her decision and I agree with she decided.If the available evidence is incomplete (not unusual in a case such as this where the sale 
happened so long ago) and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is 
most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test 
that the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2005. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information 
is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
Mr K doesnt accept that the copy of the 2005 suitability letter Aviva provided is valid, as it 
unsigned and not on a letterhead. Hes expressed surprise that we would accept such a 
document as evidence; he asks how we can know Aviva hasnt back-filled its evidence file. 
The short answer to that question is another question: how does Mr K know Aviva has 
back-filled its file? The more considered answer is that its for us to assess the reliability of 
evidence and deciding how much weight should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont 
just consider individual documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a 
broader opinion on the whole picture.
Aviva hasnt been able to provide a copy of the original letter-headed copy to prove its 
existence. So thats where the balance of probabilities comes in. It was, as Ive said, 
standard practice to provide one, so to conclude that one wasnt on this occasion, I have to 
have a reason to find that the advisor departed from standard practice. Mr K hasnt given me 
a reason to think the advisor did anything different from the norm. 
In much the same fashion, Ive seen an example of the commission disclosure factsheet that 
was part of the point of sale literature Aviva used in 2005. Aviva cant prove a copy was 
provided to Mrs H and her husband, but equally Mr K hasnt given me reason to think one 
wasnt. So on balance, I think it more likely than not that the suitability letter and commission 
document were issued in the normal way in 2005 and havent been created or modified 
retrospectively. 
Mr K says that if Avivas agent had insisted Mrs H and her husband tell their family they were 
intending to increase the mortgage debt, he and his wife could have borrowed the money 
themselves on their own mortgage at much lower cost. Ive no idea if thats true or not, but I 
would not expect any financial adviser to insist clients tell their family what they were doing; 
that would be an invasion of privacy. 
Its not a requirement (whether legal, moral, regulatory or any other reason) for equity 
release applicants to involve their family in the transaction. Its good practice to recommend 
they do so (and Mrs H and her husband confirmed that had happened when they signed the 
application form) but no more than that.  If they then do not, thats not evidence of a 
procedural failing on the part of the advisor. Its more likely to just be an indication that the 
applicants wished to keep their business private. Many people want to keep their financial 
affairs private from their family; the application form records that this was the case here. 
As to the sale itself, the suitability or otherwise of the advice isnt dependent on which party 
contacted the other first. The information-gathering exercise identified specific financial 
objectives; specifically, making money available to their children now, when it was likely to 
be of more use to them. It also indicated, notwithstanding what Mr K says now, that Mrs H 
and her husband were in need of some form of borrowing if they were to be able to realise those stated objectives. They had a decent income; they also had other assets, investments 
and savings, but clearly didnt want to break into them. Thats not at all uncommon.
Mr K criticises the fact that the illustrations and projections for the 2005 further advance 
didnt include the figures for the debt that already existed. They didnt need to; the 
illustrations Avivas adviser provided in 2005 were fully compliant with the regulatory 
requirements of the time.
Mr K also challenges the fact that other types of borrowing werent considered instead of 
equity release. Id remind Mr K that at the point of sale in 2005, Mrs H and her husband 
already had an equity release mortgage; I know hes unhappy with that too, but as I said 
earlier, Ive no power to consider the suitability or otherwise of the 2000 sale. 
Nonetheless, the fact that it already existed has a bearing on the suitability of the advice 
given in 2005. Thats because any proposal to arrange the 2005 borrowing on a traditional 
mortgage (assuming that were possible) would have meant repaying the existing equity 
release mortgage, along with an ERC.
In such circumstances, it wasnt unreasonable to view a further advance on the existing 
equity release as being the most viable option for Mrs H and her husband in 2005 given the 
circumstances recorded at the time. Whether the plans for the money being raised came to 
fruition after the mortgage was arranged doesnt affect the suitability or otherwise of the 
advice given at the time.
Its possible that after the further advance had gone through, Mrs H and her husband 
subsequently changed their minds about what theyd do with the money, but Avivas duty 
was to give suitable advice, which Im satisfied it did. Aviva couldnt insist Mrs H and her 
husband follow every aspect of the advice it had given them. Nor was it obliged to monitor its 
customers behaviour after the sale to ensure they did what theyd said they were going to 
do.
Mr K says Avivas agent should have recommended rolling the existing mortgage from 2000 
into the new borrowing, to take advantage of the lower rate. Hes calculated how much lower 
the current aggregate debt would be if that had happened, but it seems to me hes 
overlooked the fact that re-financing the 2000 mortgage in 2005 would have meant paying 
an ERC, as well as other transaction costs, including legal fees. 
Of course, the fact that the mortgage has continued to run as long as it has means that the 
differential interest thats accrued is higher than the ERC and other costs that would have 
been payable in 2005. But no one could know in 2005 how long the mortgage might run for, 
and I reiterate the point that I cant apply hindsight when assessing what happened in 2005.
Product design/Fixed rates
Having no regulatory function means its not my role to decide if a particular interest rate is 
fair or not. So I can only comment in general terms. The rate charged is 6.99%, fixed for the 
duration of the mortgage. The use of fixed rather than variable rates have always been 
normal on equity release mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in 
the debt over time as the interest rolls up. 
Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when deciding how 
much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how their debt will 
grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage offer, as it was 
in this case. If Mr K thinks Aviva was obliged to offer variable rates in 2005, thats matter he 
can raise with the regulator if he wishes to.Yes, 6.99% sounds very high in the current climate. But this rate was set in 2005, when the 
financial landscape was very different from what it is now. For much of the first decade of the 
21st century, the general expectation was that rates generally were already low and more 
likely to rise than fall over the short to medium term. All that changed in late 2007/early 2008, 
when the financial crisis struck, and rates plummeted to record lows from which theyve still 
not moved significantly. That could not possibly have been forecast in 2005. 
Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract 
further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary 
terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen the offer for the mortgage; it uses an 
assumption that the mortgage will last for 15 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out 
this assumption and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
Mr K says Aviva should simply go back and reconstruct the mortgage from inception to date 
applying a variable rate. But thats not how the contract works. The terms of the mortgage 
was agreed and accepted when it was taken out and extended, and both agreements 
specified that the rate would be fixed for the duration of the mortgage. Meanwhile if rates 
generally had risen since the loans were taken out, there wouldnt be an argument for Aviva 
increasing the rates it charges or, worse still, seeking to apply a higher rate retrospectively. 
Its reasonable to conclude that Mr K would be arguing most vociferously that any attempt to 
do that was unfair. 
Mr Ks suggestion of an alternative rate is to take base rate and apply a fixed margin; hes 
proposed 2%. Thats not untypical on regular mortgages, but it isnt necessarily relevant as a 
comparator here. When a lender provides a regular mortgage with a specified repayment 
period, it does so with some knowledge and expectation of when the debt will be repaid. 
When a lender provides an equity release mortgage, it has an expectation that the mortgage 
will be repaid, but no expectation of when. So the pricing model is very different.
In any event, my remit doesnt extend to adopting Mr Ks judgement on what a fair rate 
should be and substituting it in favour of Avivas commercial judgement as the business that 
actually lent the money.
ERC
I now turn to the ERC, starting with Mr Ks description of it as a penalty. In law, penalty has a 
specific meaning; its a financial sanction arising from a breach of contract. An ERC cant be 
a penalty because it isnt due on breach of contract. Rather, it arises from a provision in the 
contract, and is due if borrowers decide to avail themselves of the option to repay their 
mortgage early.
Lenders borrow money to be able to provide mortgages to their customers. There are costs 
associated with doing so and in repaying that borrowing early, if it does. The regulator allows 
a lender to estimate the cost to it of a proportion of its borrowers repaying their mortgages 
early, and to pass on the costs to borrowers in the form of an ERC if they repay early. 
Generally speaking, there are two types of ERC; a fixed charge calculated as a percentage 
of the amount repaid or a floating charge calculated by reference to an investment index, 
typically a gilt yield index. Whereas the former guarantees an ERC will payable in any 
circumstances, Avivas use of the latter meant the possibility existed for no ERC to be 
payable depending on movements in the index. The former regulator - the Financial Services 
Authority - allowed this and I cant find fault in Aviva having used a gilt index format for this 
mortgage.The mortgage agreement allows for the ERC not to be levied if the mortgage is being repaid 
either because the last surviving borrower had died or required to move into full-time 
residential care. Theres also a provision to move the mortgage from the existing property to 
another one; if the new property is smaller, that might mean repaying part of the mortgage, 
in which case an ERC will be payable on the amount repaid.
Mr K argues that because Mrs Hs debt has increased by so much already, its not fair of 
Aviva to apply an ERC in any circumstance; in effect, he says it should simply waive the 
ERC altogether. But that means Mr K is asking me to unilaterally change the terms of a 
commercial contract freely entered into, simply to suit one of the parties. It would be wholly 
inappropriate for me to simply redraw the terms and conditions of the contract between 
Mrs H and Aviva to suit Mrs H, which is effectively what Mr K is asking me to do. 
I do understand why Mrs Hs family are trying to anticipate and plan for her future needs. But 
Aviva is entitled to rely on the contract term as it is, and to expect Mrs H to do the same. It 
still needs to treat Mrs H fairly when applying the term to her when it is approached with 
details of a specific intended change in her circumstances. That might mean, for example, a 
decision on her part to either sell and move into residential care, or to re-mortgage to  a 
different lender; any of which would mean repaying the mortgage in full. Or it might be to sell 
and move into a different home, which would most likely mean transferring all or part of the 
mortgage to the new property.  
Id expect Aviva to assess whether any proposed change is one that allows an ERC to be 
charged, and if so, then to calculate the amount of that ERC, depending on how much of the 
mortgage is being repaid and by reference to the gilt yield index position at the relevant time. 
Aviva has done just that. Treating Mrs H fairly doesnt require Aviva to be reflective of 
todays market, to borrow Mr Ks phrase; rather, it needs to be reflective of the underlying 
contract between it and Mrs K. 
Ive considered the recent guidance from the current regulator that Mr K provided under 
cover of his final submission. That guidance, which deals with how businesses should treat 
vulnerable consumers, was published in February 2021, several months after Aviva 
considered and declined the request to waive Mrs Hs ERC. So Im not sure how applicable 
the guidance is to the events Ive been considering. 
In any event, having studied the guidance, it doesnt seem specifically to reference waiver of 
ERCs as a compliance measure, and I think it would be overly reductive to conclude that a 
business is non-compliant with the guidance simply because it wont agree to a request to 
waive an ERC. I appreciate how strongly Mr K believes Aviva should waive the ERC, and I 
understand why. But for all of the reasons Ive set out here, I cant fairly require Aviva to 
waive the ERC.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mrs H and her family have been for so long 
here, its a natural subjective reaction to see things in a particular way. But I have a different 
remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from 
the fine detail and taking an overview. It also means that Im not required to provide answers 
to every specific question that comes up, if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall 
outcome.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman