DRN-4373807
The complaint
Miss H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss H successfully applied for a credit card with Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) in 
2016. The credit limit was £1,100.
In 2022, Miss H complained to Tesco about their decision to grant her the credit card. She 
said that, at the time of the application, she was living just within her overdraft limit on her 
bank account and Tesco should have known this. Miss H felt Tesco should have carried out 
further checks to see whether she could have sustainably repaid the credit. In particular, 
Miss H felt that Tesco should have checked her income and expenditure in more detail.
Tesco didnt agree. They said they took into account information held about Miss H at credit 
reference agencies and the information she had provided on her application against other 
sources. 
Miss H then referred her complaint to us. Our investigator recommended it should be upheld. 
He said Tesco should have verified Miss Hs income and expenditure, and had they done so, 
would likely have reconsidered offering her the credit card. 
Tesco didnt agree. They said, in summary, it wasnt proportionate for them to have verified 
Miss Hs income when there were no red flags suggesting she was unable to afford the 
credit. Tesco said the checks they did showed Miss H had a low level of existing debt and 
they verified this from the credit check they carried out. 
Tesco asked for an ombudsmans decision and so Miss Hs complaint has been passed to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Hs complaint has come to me for a decision on the basis of the affordability of the 
credit she was given by Tesco. Ive seen that in her complaint to Tesco, Miss H also 
mentioned that Tesco had been applying charges to her credit card account over a period of 
time without checking whether she was in financial difficulties. 
Our investigator didnt consider this in reaching his view. Miss H hasnt referred to this in her 
response to the view and so I wont consider this aspect in this decision. My decision will 
therefore concentrate solely on the argument around affordability. 
I note also our investigator recently said to Tesco that he felt Miss Hs complaint about being 
given the credit card had been made to us in time. Tesco accepted this in their reply to him 
and so it seems its accepted that Miss Hs complaint was made in time. My decision will 
therefore focus on the merits of Miss Hs complaint. 
Ive taken into account the rules and guidance for lenders in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (known as CONC) within the regulators handbook, when thinking about 
whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably.
Prior to granting Miss H with credit, Tesco were required to ensure it would be affordable 
and sustainable. There isnt a set list of checks they needed to complete, instead Tesco 
needed to ensure the checks they completed were proportionate. In deciding what is 
proportionate, Tesco needed to take into consideration things such as (but not limited to): 
the amount of credit, the cost of credit, the size of any sustainable repayments to ensure the 
credit could be repaid in a reasonable period of time (this is likely to be higher than the 
minimum contractual payment) and Miss Hs specific circumstances.
When Miss H applied for the credit card, she declared she earned an annual income of 
£6,500 and that her housing costs were £50 each month. Tesco completed a credit check 
which they saw showed that Miss H had very little other debt at the time. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit check Tesco carried out and the information from Miss H that 
they considered. This set out that Miss H was living with her parents, was employed part-
time and had one dependant. The credit check showed that Miss H had no County Court 
Judgments, defaults or records of bankruptcy or other insolvency. It also showed that Miss H 
had existing debts for loans totalling £3,233 and that she was paying £116 a month to this. 
Tesco say they checked Miss Hs income with the credit reference agencies and were 
satisfied that this was £544 each month. Tesco also used statistical data to estimate the cost 
of her essential spending which they set as £163. From that, they calculated that Miss H had 
around £106 of disposable income after taking into account the payments she would likely 
normally need to make towards the credit card. 
I understand what Tesco are saying about Miss H having relatively low existing debt at the 
time of the application. And I agree there was nothing of concern about how she had been 
managing that debt. However, Miss Hs declared income was low and her existing debt 
repayment and declared housing cost of £50 would have taken that down below £400. I 
dont think it proportionate for Tesco to have just assumed her expenditure to have been 
£163 each month bearing in mind she had a dependant. And even if that had been a fair 
thing to assume, disposable income of £106 didnt exactly leave much for Miss H to use 
towards unexpected costs. 
I find that it would have been proportionate for Tesco to have verified Miss Hs financial 
position. Ive looked at a copy of her bank statements for the month prior to the application 
and can see that she was almost constantly overdrawn even allowing for money coming in 
from what appears to be family and friends. So, it seems that with low income coming in, she 
was struggling to balance and manage her finances. And I think that would have been 
apparent to Tesco had they verified her financial situation. Therefore, I dont think Tesco 
made a fair lending decision and needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for them to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Miss H should 
pay back the amounts she has borrowed. Therefore, Tesco should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss H along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Miss Hs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss H for the remaining amount. Once Miss H has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from her credit file. 
If Tesco has sold the debt to a third party, they should arrange to either buy back the debt 
from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out 
promptly. 
* If Tesco considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss H how much its taken off. Tesco should also give 
Miss H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to take the action Ive 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman