DRN-3614659
The complaint
Mr T has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL)s 
decision to reject a claim he made on a home and buildings insurance policy he holds jointly 
with Mrs T.  
What happened
Mr T made a claim to his insurer AAUICL. He went into the loft and discovered damp on the 
inside brickwork of the chimney. 
AAUICL instructed a surveyor to inspect the damage in order to validate the claim. The 
surveyor said there was no sign of storm being the cause of damage. So AAUICL declined 
the claim as it said no insured event had occurred. 
Mr T was unhappy with AAUICLs decision. He said there had been several storms over the 
year and believed one of them had caused the damage. But AAUICL didnt uphold the 
complaint. So Mr T asked us to look at things for him. 
Our Investigator didnt think AAUICL had done anything wrong. Mr T didnt agree and wants 
an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AAUICL like most insurers doesnt provide cover for every eventuality - but for specific 
insured events. It isnt unusual for an insurer to exclude cover for damage that happens 
gradually over time. In other words, where the damage hasnt been caused by an 
unforeseen sudden event. 
As the Investigator explained, we ask three questions when looking at storm damage 
complaints. AAUICL followed our approach when it considered Mr and Mrs Ts claim. These 
questions are:
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have 
happened?
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage?
We're likely to uphold a complaint if the answer to all three questions is 'yes'. However if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to uphold a complaint.
Although Mr T says there were storms in the year up to when he reported the damage, there 
were no storm conditions at the time he identified the damp on the chimney in the loft. So the 
answer to the first question is no. 
Storm is a one off event which - as an insured peril - causes damage as a result of an 
episode of severely bad weather. AAUICL defines the term storm under the policy as:
A period of violent weather defined as: a) Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 
knots (55mph) which are the equivalent to Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale; b) 
torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; c) snow to a depth of at least 
one foot (30cms) in 24 hours; or d) hail of such intensity that it causes damage to 
hard surfaces or breaks glass.
So it would be reasonable to see signs of storm damage such as broken roof tiles as an 
example. In this case the damp damage identified isnt consistent with being caused by a 
one off event. So the answer to the second question is no. 
The surveyor provided AAUICL with photos of the inside and outside of the chimney and the 
area of damage. The surveyor reported the following:
There was no evidence of any storm damage or displacement to the roof or chimney 
area. Neither were there any missing or cracked tiles. We were able to confirm there 
was a damp patch to the bare block of the chimney breast within the loft space. It has 
likely been caused by wind driven rain highlighting a minor defect to the flashing of 
the chimney.
So the answer to the final question is no. I think some poor weather has highlighted an 
existing issue which isnt covered under the policy. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T. But I dont think AAUICLs decision to decline their 
claim was unreasonable. I think it was made in line with the policy terms. And so Im not 
asking AAUICL to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman