DRN-3618176
The complaint
Miss M has complained that CarCashPoint Limited (CCP) was irresponsible to 
have agreed credit for her.
What happened
CCP provided Miss M with a loan of £530 in January 2019. The total amount of £2,438 
including interest and charges was to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £68 (figures 
rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Miss M provided 
CCP with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Miss M didnt make her loan repayments 
CCP could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of her vehicle. I understand Miss M 
missed payments from late 2019 and her account was mostly in arrears until it closed in 
March 2022. Miss M says that she wasnt in a financial position to take out the loan when it 
was agreed. She says she was living on benefits and had no money in her bank account.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ms complaint and didnt recommended that it be 
upheld. They found that CCP had carried out a proportionate check before lending to 
Miss M and that nothing in the information it had gathered would have highlighted that she 
couldnt afford to meet her repayments sustainably.
Miss M didnt accept this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve. 
I reviewed the complaint and sent a provisional decision to both parties on the 12 July 2022 
explaining why I was minded to uphold it. I allowed two weeks for the parties to send me any 
comments about the provisional decision or new information they wished me to consider. 
Miss M accepted my decision and provided some further information about her costs at the 
time of the loan. CCP didnt respond to my provisional decision, but it had shared further 
comments and information with us following on from my review of the complaint. 
This is my final decision on the matter and will be legally binding if Miss M chooses to accept 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Miss M said that her costs were higher than Id 
estimated. This doesnt change my view of her complaint, as Id provisionally found that CCP 
shouldnt have agreed to lend to her based on the information Id reviewed. Having 
considered everything again, I remain of the view that CCP was irresponsible to lend to 
Miss M on this ocassion. I appreciate that will be a disappointing outcome for CCP and Ill 
set out again my reasons and conclusions in this final decision. 
As Id said in my provisional decision,  CCP will be aware of the relevant regulations so I will 
summarise them here. CCP needed to check that Miss M could afford to meet her 
repayments out of her usual means without having to borrow further, without missing any of 
her existing obligations and without experiencing significant adverse impacts. CCP was 
required to take reasonable steps to estimate Miss Ms income and (non-discretionary) 
expenditure. CCP also needed to have regard to any information of which it was aware at 
the time that might have indicated that Miss M was in, had recently experienced or was likely 
to experience, financial difficulties.
One of the rules set out by the regulator stated that a business must not accept an 
application for a loan where it suspects that the applicant has not been truthful in completing 
it, for example where the information declared might be inconsistent with other information 
(CONC 5.2A.36R). The overarching requirement was that CCP needed to pay due regard to 
Miss Ms interests and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening 
this as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them 
by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other 
reason.
With this in mind, my main consideration is did CCP complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks when assessing Miss Ms application to satisfy itself that she would be able to make 
her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did CCP make a fair and responsible 
lending decision?
CCP says it completed substantive checks and reviewed the affordability and sustainability 
of the loan for Miss M before lending to her. It provided a record of its income and 
expenditure assessment and the snapshots of the bank account statements it relied on. 
CCP said in its final response to Miss M about her complaint that it verified her benefits 
income to her bank statements as part of its affordability review and that the loan amount 
was restricted to £500 (plus its agents fee of £30) as her income was solely based on 
benefits. CCP also said that Miss M provided evidence of her council tax and rent payments 
being made and her bank account statements showed that her account was being 
maintained within its £2,000 overdraft limit.
The snapshots provided by CCP show current account transactions for two weeks in 
January 2019 and savings account transactions for 23 November 2018 to 9 January 2019. 
The latter are mostly transfers. CCP said that it didnt see any further transactions but that 
there was no evidence of failed or problem payments in the transactions it saw, or any other 
signs of general financial difficulty. It said Miss M stated that she did not have any current 
high court judgements, was not party to any IVA/bankruptcy proceedings, and was not in 
arrears or in debt with any financial obligations.
I think CCP was right to ask Miss M about her income and expenditure and look to 
independently verify this information. After all, she would need to meet her repayments for 
three years and the consequences of not doing so were potentially serious in that she might 
lose her car. However, Ive reviewed the information CCP gathered from Miss M and I think 
CCP got some things wrong in its assessment and should have looked into Miss Ms 
circumstances further before agreeing to lend to her.
CCP recorded figures for Miss Ms monthly income and expenditure of £1,000 and £515 
respectively, which left her with an estimated £485 a month surplus. It doesnt seem 
plausible to me that Miss M would actually have this amount to spare each month yet want to borrow £530, pay interest and use her car as security. The income figure of £1,000 isnt 
quite right as Miss Ms income varied and could be as low as £955, as borne out by the 
snapshots of her bank account. The monthly expenditure figures CCP recorded came to a 
total of £515 made up of:
£300 rent
£35 council tax
£60 gas, electricity and water
£100 food
£20 family spend
I think there are some obvious omissions from these expenses for example car costs, mobile 
phone or internet bills (noted by CCP as being paid annually but with no associated expense 
recorded). I also think CCPs estimate of Miss Ms monthly food costs is not consistent with 
her banking transactions. The two weeks of current account transactions show about £100 
spent in supermarkets and convenience stores. In addition, while CCP says it didnt see any 
failed or problem payments in the two weeks transactions it had sight of, the transactions 
showed that Miss Ms bank balance for her current account was less than a pound, despite 
her £2,000 overdraft.
Altogether, I dont think CCP did enough here to check that the loan would be affordable for 
Miss M without causing her difficulty. I dont think the assessment was proportionate, and 
CCP should have considered that a more rigorous assessment was needed here given the 
circumstances of the loan and the omissions and inconsistencies Ive highlighted.
We have statements for some of Miss Ms bank accounts and Ive reviewed these to inform 
what I think a more rigorous check would likely have revealed. I can see from these that 
Miss Ms food spend was higher even than £200 a month, she had car insurance and car tax 
costs of about £50 a month and petrol costs of over £100. Miss M had a subscription 
package for internet and tv costing over £100 a month. She was also making payments to a 
debt management company of £20 and was paying interest and charges on her £2,000 
overdraft.
Furthermore, Miss M had no available funds when CCP checked her transactions. It should 
have been obvious to CCP that Miss M was living in her overdraft and was likely to be 
meeting her loan repayments from these borrowed funds also. Her bank statements show 
that shed had this level of overdraft for at least a year and continued to do so for at least a 
year after taking out this loan.
I shared this information and my view of it with CCP and it said that it still considered the 
loan to have been affordable for Miss M. It said Even assuming the lower income range of 
£955.51 we still consider this affordable. Declared expenditure of £515, plus additional £100 
for food, £50 car insurance, petrol £100 and [debt management payments of] £20. We would 
regard [a] subscription of c£100 per month to be at largely discretionary with an estimate for 
internet of £40 per month being acceptable. This would result in a net disposable income of 
£130.51. We still consider this is sufficient and affordable to cover the repayments of £67.73 
plus the small overdraft charges, particularly in the context of us taking a conservative range 
of the benefits income and the understanding that the customer would soon be returning to 
work.
Leaving aside the question of whether or not an existing subscription is a discretionary cost, 
CCPs revised cost estimate leaves Miss M with about £60 a month surplus to meet other 
costs after meeting her loan payment. Ive mentioned for example mobile phone costs and 
overdraft fees, and Miss Ms circumstances were such that she had at least one dependent and there was no account taken of any child-related costs. I think there was a high risk here 
that the loan was unaffordable for Miss M out of her usual means without her having to 
borrow to repay it. I also think its likely that a more rigorous assessment would have 
confirmed this and so Ive concluded that CCP made an irresponsible lending decision on 
this occasion.
CCP mentioned that Miss M said she would soon be returning to work. I dont think CCP 
could rely on this happening as a factor in its assessment without having gathered any 
evidence of this potential increase in income. I note that CCP didnt seem to take this into 
consideration when determining the amount of money it was willing to lend.
In my review of Miss Ms bank statements I noted a large payment into her account in 
August 2018. I asked Miss M about this and she explained it was a compensation payment 
and that the money was spent on home improvement and home goods, debt consolidation 
and a car purchase. She says shed spent all of this by October 2018, and this does seem to 
be the case from the bank statements Ive seen. So I dont think Miss M had an amount of 
savings she could potentially have used to meet these loan repayments.
CCP said that Miss M maintained her account in good order until it was settled in March 
2022, though it does go on to say that it removed £135 of fees and wrote off £251 of interest 
to assist her on settlement. The statement of account CCP provided shows that Miss M 
made late payments throughout the loan term and ran her account with an arrears balance. I 
havent seen any customer contact notes so I dont know how her account was managed 
beyond what this statement of account shows. However, Miss Ms ended up paying interest 
on this loan which I dont think should have been agreed and potentially had her credit file 
negatively impacted. I think CCP needs to put this right for Miss M and Ive set out below the 
steps it should now take.
Putting things right
I understand that the loan has now been repaid and Miss Ms account settled. In order to put 
things right for her CCP should:
Refund to Miss M payments she made above the amount she borrowed. To be clear 
this includes any interest or charges associated with the credit or its collection, 
including the agent fee of £30 it added to the loan; and
Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they were 
paid to the date of refund; and
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Miss Ms credit file; and
Revoke the Bill of Sale for Miss Ms car if this is still in place and return any relevant 
documents to her if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CCP to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint about CarCashPoint
Limited and it needs to put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman