DRN-4454212
The complaint
Miss P complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs technical issues that impacted 
upon her ability to bank on-line. Also, their subsequent standard of service.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 19 October 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 6 November 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Miss P complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs technical issues that impacted
upon her ability to bank on-line. Also, their subsequent standard of service.
What happened
Miss P submitted a detailed complaint to NatWest about the inconvenience and distress she
experienced in December 2022. There were 3 strands to her complaint which I have
summarised as follows:
Strand 1
In December 2022, Miss P was unable to make a low value on-line purchase as she
experienced mobile app technical issues. Miss P decided to call NatWest to get assistance
but struggled to find a contact number and, when she spoke to a representative, she felt she
received a poor level of service. This is because it was difficult to hear, she wasnt put on
hold whilst waiting for the technical team and she could hear other calls. Also, there was a
lack of understanding of the importance of the issue and Miss P was dissatisfied to be told it
would take 2 days for the technical team to respond.
Miss P explains how she spent a long time on the phone going round in circles, getting no
resolution, despite speaking to a number of representatives and repeatedly re-explaining the
issue. In addition, she found some of the representatives to be rude to her, including telling
her she was speaking too fast, so she decided to complain.
When trying to complain Miss P says she again had to speak to numerous representatives
and had to continuously re-explain the issue. Miss P felt the representatives were inattentive
and unprofessional as she could tell they were working from home. Also, she had to ask for
the names of the representatives and they didnt have a complaints email address or give
clarity over response times. In addition, she was promised a call back that didnt materialise
and had a number of other issues including getting email bounce backs and being 
disconnected.
Furthermore, despite being told her transaction would go through she later discovered it was
cancelled and she would have to wait for a refund.
Although Miss P subsequently received a call back together with an apology and
compensation, she explains how her inconvenient and distressing experience continued.
This is because the compensation was insufficient, and she had to spend more time re-
explaining the issue.
Strand 2
Miss P also complained to NatWest about another issue she had in December 2022. She
found herself unable to log on to her on-line bank account. Miss P explains how, after
waiting longer than the 48-hour service standard, she received a response from the wrong
department (business banking) and, when she tried to speak to a representative, she had
another poor service experience. Firstly, dealing with NatWests automated system and then
not being passed on to a complaint manager.
Strand 3
Miss P complains about a representative connected to strand 2. Firstly, she could hear the
representatives dog barking in the background and questions the professional environment
that NatWest representatives work in. Secondly, she explains that she requested to speak to
a manager and the representative wouldnt put her through, was being difficult and issued
her with an unreasonable warning. Miss P describes the representative as being stubborn,
difficult, unprofessional and condescending.
NatWest response
In their complaint response letter NatWest apologised and offered £170 compensation. This
was later increased to £250.
Regarding the technical issue that Miss P experienced, described in strand 1, NatWest didnt
uphold this aspect of the complaint as they believed the issue was caused by the retailer.
Regarding the technical issue that Miss P experienced, described in strand 2, NatWest did
uphold this aspect of the complaint, but they couldnt explain the issue.
Regarding Miss Ps complaints about call handling and the level of service, NatWest did
uphold these aspects.
Financial Ombudsman Service
Miss P was dissatisfied with the above response and complained to our service providing a
copy of the complaint document she sent to NatWest. Miss P highlighted the following
additional points of dissatisfaction:
Customer service received by a NatWest complaints representative on 31/12/22
Feeling deliberately targeted by the above complaints representative
The standard of complaint handling staff and processes
Miss P said she wanted answers as to why their advisers are just so rude, unprofessional 
and slack. Also, a greater amount of compensation for the inconvenience and distress 
caused.
Our investigator didnt think NatWest could do any more than theyve already done and
didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint.As Miss P remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have a different view to the investigator. Im upholding this complaint and
asking NatWest to increase their compensation offer. I will explain how I have come to my
decision.
When Miss P submitted her complaint to our service, she was asked how she would like the
business to put things right, and she said she wanted answers as to why their advisers are
just so rude, unprofessional and slack.
So, I should first explain that I cant tell a business to make alterations to their systems,
services, procedures or processes. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial
services industry. Also, as explained by our investigator, there are rules (known as DISP
Rules) laid down by the Financial Conduct Authority which means complaint handling is not
a regulated activity. So, specific complaints about how NatWest manage complaints,
including the actions or inactions of staff handling complaints cant be considered by our
service.
Furthermore, its not my role to penalise businesses when service issues like this arise.
However, what we can do is consider each individual case and, where we think a business
hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to decide what should be
done to put right any financial or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced. So,
we can ask a business to pay a proportionate level of redress.
Miss P has since confirmed she is looking for compensation for the sheer amount of hours
and hours, and hours, of my time (both professional and personal time).
NatWest have accepted they made mistakes, upholding most of Miss Ps complaints about
technical and service issues. So, whats left for me to consider here is the technical issue
that NatWest didnt uphold and the impact of the combined issues on Miss P and whether
the NatWest compensation offer totalling £250 is fair and reasonable for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Having read the file notes, including Miss Ps detailed complaint letter and listened to
available calls, I sympathise with Miss Ps frustrating experience. Also, I fully understand
why she is disappointed with NatWests response and is seeking answers, assurances and a
greater amount of redress.
Assessing compensation isnt an exact science and our approach when making awards for
non-financial loss is detailed on our website and tends to be modest.
I first considered the on-line purchase that Miss P couldnt complete for which there is a
dispute as to whether this was a NatWest technical error or a retailer error.
NatWest say they cant see any declined transactions on the December to x (retailer) but I
can see that they were approved. This means that the error was on x (retailer) side and as a
result, I cannot agree that there has been a bank error and provided evidence to support
this.
However, although the information received from NatWest does indicate a retailer error, I
cant see that Miss P received a clear, conclusive or timely explanation which responded toher screen shots or explained the events she experienced and stated contradictory
comments from the retailer and NatWest representatives.
I appreciate technical issues can occur between banks and retailers and financial services
wont always be totally hassle free. Also, this was a low value transaction that Miss P might
have been able to have completed in an alternative way and a large busy bank has to
consider the time and effort they put into an investigation.
However, although NatWest didnt uphold this part of Miss Ps complaint, when considering
the above, together with the inconvenience and loss of confidence Miss P experienced over
this issue, I think a redress payment (separate to the service issues Miss P experienced
when raising this issue and looking for a resolution) of £100 should have been considered by
NatWest.
I then considered the impact of the other biometric technical issue which meant Miss P
couldnt place any orders online as she wasnt able to approve any transactions using her
NatWest app. NatWest are unable to explain what went wrong here and they upheld this
aspect of Miss Ps complaint and included this in their compensation offer.
Whilst this was a relatively short-term issue and there is lack of information on the
purchasing difficulties it caused Miss P, Im persuaded by Miss Ps submissions that,
separate to the service issues, this caused her worry, distress and a loss of confidence in
the build up to Christmas where she would be needing her on-line purchasing facility. So, I
consider a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to be £100.
I then looked closely at the service issues which Miss P complains about, noting that
NatWest upheld these aspects of her complaint but didnt expand when saying we should
have handled things better.
I can understand why Miss P became frustrated with some of the NatWest representatives.
This is because she was transferred numerous times and, due to a lack of system notes,
several representatives asked her to repeat information. Also, due to procedure and
process, they pressed her to repeat information and were reluctant to take accountability and
put her through to more senior staff when she made a request. In addition, some
commitments werent met, and Miss P didnt get the answers or assurances she was
seeking.
Although I recognise that NatWest representatives found it difficult to manage comments
and interruptions from Miss P, who was understandably frustrated and at times challenging
them in an assertive way, considering their roles I found some representatives couldve been
more professional and were quick to interrupt, warn and terminate calls with Miss P.
I didnt though find that the NatWest representatives were rude or agree with Miss Ps multi-
tasking expectation. Also, I consider the support service standards and working from home
arrangements which NatWest have in place, including professionalism where pets can be
heard, to have been reasonable as these are business matters for NatWest.
The above issues caused Miss P to spend a long time on the phone. In addition, because of
a combination of circular conversations, poor call handling and some commitments not being
met, together with the worry over the technical issues that were causing her inconvenience,
Miss P found it necessary to compose emails and letters. Furthermore, it is clear Miss P
spent much time and went to considerable trouble here and from listening to calls and
looking at the file NatWest responses suggest these werent read. So, I can understand how
this added to Miss Ps frustration.Also, I found the above-mentioned service issues that Miss P experienced added to the
inconvenience and the distress she felt over the technical issues. Im also persuaded that
the frustration and annoyance here was greater than what a customer experiencing technical
difficulties should experience.
So, I can understand Miss Ps strength of feeling over NatWests service, and after taking
into account the events and impacts, I consider that a fair and reasonable amount of
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the service issues should be
£200.
Whilst the impact of the technical and service errors was short-term, Im persuaded that in
addition to worry, upset and distress they caused Miss P to have a loss of confidence in
NatWest.
So, having considered all aspects of Miss Ps complaint my provisional decision is that
NatWest should increase their compensation offer and pay Miss P £400 in compensation
less any amounts already paid.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
I require National Westminster Bank Plc, to pay Miss P £400 compensation less any 
amounts already paid.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 6 November
2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both Miss P and NatWest the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
I didnt receive a response from Miss P.
NatWest said they agree to pay an additional £150 compensation, bringing the total to 
£400.
Having reconsidered everything including the responses received, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision, which I adopt in full as part of this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Miss P £400 compensation less any amounts 
already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman