DRN-3055580
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car she acquired, financed by a hire purchase agreement with 
Billing Finance Ltd, wasnt of satisfactory quality and she was misled into thinking the car 
had a full service history.
What happened
In May 2020 Miss B acquired a car, financed by a hire purchase agreement with Billing. The 
car was five years old and the mileage was 44,647. In October Miss B complained to Billing. 
She said shed had to get several repairs done to the car and when she checked the service 
book she noticed it hadnt been stamped. She said she asked the dealer to stamp it and 
provide evidence the service apparently completed just prior to her acquiring the car had 
been completed but she said she didnt receive it. 
In its final response Billing said that the repairs were based on fair wear and tear of the 
vehicle. And although the dealer didnt have evidence of the service itself Billing said it likely 
forgot to stamp the service book. It said the stamp is a legal declaration that the service was 
carried out and the dealer was willing to stamp the book. 
Miss B wasnt satisfied and brought her complaint to this service. She said she wasnt happy 
that the front brake disc needed to be changed along with the tyres and brake pads. Miss B 
also said the oxygen sensor, coil pack and mis-firing had been repaired under warranty. She 
said she wanted evidence the dealer had serviced the car. She said the last service was 
said to be in May 2020 but the last recorded service was January 2019. 
Our investigator concluded that the repairs were as a result of wear and tear and that it was 
an oversight the service book hadnt been stamped. Miss B did not agree and asked for a 
final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Miss B but having done so I wont be asking 
Billing to do anything further. 
Miss Bs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says that 
under a contract to supply goods there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. It says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Where a new car is supplied the expectation is that the car is free from even minor defects. 
But with used vehicles, the car will show some signs of wear and tear and this is reflected in 
the price. When considering whether the car was of satisfactory quality I must identify if the 
problems with the car were present at the point of sale and were caused due to an inherent 
defect rather than wear and tear. When Miss B acquired the car it was around five years old 
and had travelled 44,647 miles. So, I would expect it to have some wear and tear.
When Miss B contacted Billing she said she had had to replace brake discs and pads. She 
also said the filter did not look like it had been replaced which, she said, is evidence the car 
wasnt serviced. Miss B said her mechanic looked at the filters and from his professional 
opinion they were extremely worn. She said in his opinion they had not been changed that 
year at all. The mileage on the car at that point was 54,650.
Miss B had the car for five months prior to replacing the brake discs and pads. She drove 
over 10,000 miles. Given the age of the car and the mileage it had when she acquired it I 
would expect some aspects of the car to show signs of wear and tear. This includes the 
brake components. After a further 10,000 I would expect further wear and tear and it would 
be reasonable to say the brake discs and pads might need replacing as a matter of course 
when a car has done some 55,000 miles. Driving style and road conditions will also affect 
how long brake components last.
Im not disputing Miss B when she says the oil filter looked extremely worn. But there isnt 
any technical evidence to support that it looked more worn than would be expected after 
10,000 miles. It may or may not be the case that evidence of worn brakes was present at the 
point of sale, its not possible to say. But I consider this to be fair wear and tear and not an 
inherent defect. So Im not persuaded the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
sale.    
Miss B has said she was told the car would be serviced prior to collection. But that the dealer 
could not provide any evidence that this service has been carried out. She said the 
dealership who sold her the car has no record of the service or proof. The dealer has said 
the service was carried out and it is willing to stamp the book to confirm this. But as it cant 
provide any paperwork to support the service having been carried out Miss B has questioned 
how the book can be stamped if theres no evidence the service has happened. 
I can see Miss B would like the paperwork supporting the service not only to evidence it 
happened in the first place but also to explain details of it. This is understandable. But the 
absence of the paperwork doesnt necessarily mean the service wasnt carried out. It could 
just mean the dealer hasnt kept the paperwork as it sold the car on. And I dont think it 
reasonable for me to conclude that a service wasnt carried out on the basis that the oil filter 
looked like it hadnt been changed, because, Miss B had driven 10,000 miles since acquiring 
the car.
I do accept that a lack of stamp in the service book could indicate a service wasnt 
completed when the dealer said it was. But it has offered to stamp the book to confirm a 
service was carried out. Miss B has said in the service book it has a check list to tick what 
was serviced. She has questioned how her book can be stamped if the dealer doesnt know 
or doesnt have a record of what was carried out for the actual service record to be 
completed. While ideally this would be the case the dealer has confirmed the garage has a 
record that the service did take place on 13 May 2020 despite not having the paperwork. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act explains that the finance provider, Billing, is liable for 
what is said by a credit broker or supplier before the consumer takes out a credit agreement. 
Miss B has said she was told the vehicle would come with a full-service history. I havent 
seen any advertisements or sales notices to confirm the vehicle would be sold with a full-
service history. And there is no record of the sales conversations between Miss B and the 
dealership. So, while I am not disputing Miss Bs version of events, without any supporting evidence that the dealership represented the car with a full-service history it wouldnt be fair 
of me to hold Billing responsible for any misrepresentation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman