DRN-3271699
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Cuvva Limited, an insurance intermediary, which he had been 
using to buy short term motor insurance, and which said it didnt want to deal with him again.
What happened
Mr D had used Cuvva before to arrange a temporary motor insurance policy and in 
August 2021 he used it again. As part of the application he uploaded a photo of the interior 
of the car. When Cuvva saw the photo it felt Mr D must have been driving whilst using his 
phone. It said it wouldnt deal with Mr D again. Mr D felt this was unfair  he told Cuvva a 
friend had taken the photo from the backseat, and thought Cuvva must have taken this 
decision to discriminate against him as he is unwell. Cuvva explained that it felt Mr D had 
breached its user policy and it wouldnt change its decision.
Mr D complained to us. He told us that he had taken the photo  but he had pulled over to 
the side of the road and parked the car before doing so. He said it wasnt fair for Cuvva to 
not do business with him  he cant afford full cover and it suited him to get ad-hoc insurance 
from Cuvva. Not being able to do that, he said, is affecting his health and well-being.   
Our investigator noted the photo Cuvva had concerns about. He said that he could 
understand its position. He didnt think Cuvva had acted unreasonably by choosing not to do 
business with Mr D in the future. 
Mr D was unhappy. He said that whilst you can look at probabilities there wasnt one piece of 
stone cold evidence that showed he had done anything wrong. He said there is nothing to 
show the engine was on or that the car was moving, and that certainly isnt indicated by the 
position of the car on the road. Mr D was adamant the car was stopped when he took the 
photo. His complaint was passed for consideration by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this is frustrating for Mr D, but I dont think Cuvva has done anything wrong. 
Its possible that Mr D may not have done anything wrong either. But that doesnt mean 
Cuvva should ignore its concerns and continue to offer insurance to Mr D.
Perhaps it would help if I explain that no insurance company is bound to always agree to 
contract with an individual. Even for annually renewing policies an insurer can choose to not 
offer cover at renewal. It is for each insurance company to decide whom they do and dont 
want to offer cover to. I understand that, sometimes, from the prospective policyholder, a 
decision like this seems cold and unfair. But insurance is a business based on risk, and 
deciding what risks to accept or decline is a matter of commercial judgement. Which, if 
executed fairly and reasonably, is something this service wont get involved in.
I havent seen anything that makes me think Cuvva made this decision on the basis that 
Mr D is unwell. Rather it has shown that it has terms which it expects all policyholders to 
keep to. And its explained that it feels Mr D breached those terms  which makes it not want 
to deal with him in the future. It seems it would treat all policyholders/prospective 
policyholders in the same way. So Im not persuaded it discriminated against Mr D.
Ive noted what Mr D has told us. And that he is adamant the car wasnt moving when the 
photo was taken. But I also note his version of what happened, initially given to Cuvva was 
different  that he was driving whilst a rear passenger took the photo. And that hes also said 
he was muddled when he told Cuvva this  that had happened on a different occasion.  
But whichever version is correct I can understand why Cuvva thinks its actually very likely 
Mr D was driving whilst taking the photo himself. Im not saying that is what happened  that 
isnt for me to decide. But I can understand, from the photo Cuvva saw, why it thinks that is 
the case. And I dont think its view is an unreasonable one. I say that even just in respect of 
one issue of concern Cuvva has noted with the photo  the road position of the car. From the 
photo the car is not pulled over to the side of road  it is in the middle of the lane, with the 
white line in the road ahead seeming to disappear under the front right wing of the car. That 
is exactly the position of most cars whilst progressing along a road. It is not the position of a 
safely parked car. And even if the car was stopped with the engine off, it wouldnt be classed 
a safely parked. And Cuvva has explained that, in line with road traffic legislation, it is only if 
a car is safely parked that a hand-held device like a phone can be legally used. 
In short, Cuvva doesnt have to have stone cold evidence that Mr D was driving whilst 
using his mobile phone, it only has to show me that it made a reasonable decision. Which 
I think it did. And I can understand why, having noted that Mr D was likely driving whilst 
using his mobile phone, it decided it wasnt prepared to accept the risk presented by Mr D as 
a driver, and in so doing, decided not to offer him cover in the future.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Cuvva Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman