DRN-3555296
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the length of time taken by Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Birmingham Midshires and referred to here as BM) to deal with a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) which he raised as part of his concerns about the way his mortgage 
account had been handled.
What happened
Mr T had a buy-to-let mortgage with BM on a property which was sold in 2019. Two 
complaints were raised by Mr T about the actions of BM and the fees charged by its 
solicitors. The first, in 2019, was resolved by this service in January 2020; the second, made 
in 2021, was dismissed in a decision I issued on 27 July 2022. I will therefore make no 
further comment on those matters.
Mr T also made a DSAR to BM in March 2020 following his dissatisfaction with the outcome 
of his first complaint to our service. BM said it wasnt able to deal with it at the time as it 
didnt have a signature match for Mr T, or an address that was registered with BM. 
Information was requested from Mr T to rectify this but wasnt received. BM therefore took no 
further action to process the DSAR.
It wasnt until January 2021 that Mr T revived his request for a DSAR. Again BM said it 
wasnt able to process this, as the signature didnt match. BM explained this in January 2021 
and chased a response in February 2021. But after reviewing the matter, BM acknowledged 
it should have dealt with the request in March 2020. 
BM offered compensation of £250 for any distress and inconvenience caused by this, and it 
also processed the DSAR before the end of May 2021.
Mr T wasnt happy with the service hed received and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. He thought BMs 
service had been less than satisfactory, but was satisfied that £250 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators findings asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BM has acknowledged it made a mistake in not processing the DSAR in March 
2020, I dont need to analyse the events in detail to establish whether or not the bank is at 
fault; all I need to determine is what compensation is fair and reasonable.
After reviewing what happened, I think the offer of £250 by BM is suitable and appropriate 
compensation for its customer service errors. I say this because there was a period of more 
than a year after BM had first written to Mr T requesting ID (in March 2020) when he didnt 
respond. Given this, I dont attribute all the delay to BM. In the circumstances, Im satisfied 
that £250 compensation is fair and reasonable and Im not going to order BM to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the £250 offered 
by Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Birmingham Midshires is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I simply leave it to Mr T to decide if he wants to accept it in full and final 
settlement of his complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman