DRN-3565043
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as E, is unhappy with the frequency that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC attempted to contact it about arrears that were outstanding on its account.
This complaint is brought to this service by Es director, Mr J.
What happened
E had a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with Barclays on which it had fallen behind on the due 
instalment payments such that the BBL was in a position of arrears. In August 2021, Es 
company secretary (CS), contacted Barclays as he was receiving text messages relating to 
Es missed BBL instalment payments. The CS wasnt a director of E and wasnt aware that E 
had missed any BBL instalment payments at that time. Barclays couldnt find any record of 
the text messages being sent, so it concluded that they must have been sent from an 
illegitimate third party as part of an attempted scam and sent a letter to the CS which 
advised as such.
A short while later, Mr J contacted Barclays as the CS had made him aware that letters were 
now being received by him about Es missed BBL instalments which were asking E to 
contact Barclays. Mr J explained that the main point of contact for E should be himself and 
not the CS, and so Barclays updated their records accordingly. Mr J also explained that E 
was no longer trading and was bankrupt. 
Barclays investigated the matter again and concluded that the texts and letters that had 
been sent were from Barclays and were in relation to Es missed BBL instalment payments 
and the status of Es BBL as being in arrears. Barclays also noted that there were no official 
notifications of Es current of impending bankruptcy or of it being stricken off as a limited 
company, which meant that the status of E at that time was that it was still officially trading. 
As such, Barclays didnt feel it had acted unfairly towards E by continuing to seek to contact 
E about the arrears on its BBL, although it did make a payment of £50 as compensation for 
the inconvenience caused to by Barclays not identifying the reason for the texts and letters 
when the CS first contacted Barclays about it.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred Es complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards E in how it had tried to contact E about the missed BBL instalment 
payments, and so they didnt uphold Es complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, especially as he felt personally distressed and inconvenienced 
by the frequency of the communication attempts by Barclays, as well as the time spent trying 
to contact Barclays in response to them. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr J might have felt personally upset by the frequency of the 
communication he received from Barclays about Es missed BBL instalment payments, 
especially as Mr J has confirmed he would often have to wait on hold with Barclays for a 
long time before speaking with an agent to whom he would repeat information he had given 
to Barclays previously  only for the texts and letters from Barclays about the missed 
instalment payments to continue.
However, this service has strict parameters as to what we can and cant consider. And in this 
instance, given that this complaint has been brought in the name of E as a limited company, 
we can only consider whether E as a limited company has incurred any form of detriment. 
This means that this service cant consider whether Mr J personally has incurred any form of 
detriment, such as distress or frustration, because Mr J isnt the complainant to this 
complaint  the complainant is E. And given that E is a limited company and as such cant 
itself be distressed or frustrated, this service isnt able to consider instructing any form of 
compensation to E for distress or frustration in this instance. Further information about the 
remit within which this service must operate can be found on our website and in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. 
The key question here is whether it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to send texts and 
letters to E about the arrears on Es BBL account at the frequency that it did. And in this 
instance, having considered the full circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that it was 
fair and reasonable for Barclays to have done so.
One of the reasons I say this is because credit providers such as Barclays have an 
obligation to make credit account holders aware of any arrears that are on an account as 
well as the potential consequences of not clearing those arrears. And having reviewed the 
letters that Barclays sent to E, Im satisfied that the letters included the information required 
for Barclays to fulfil those obligations.
I also dont feel that it was unfair for Barclays to have sent the text messages asking E to 
contact them regarding the BBL account arrears. E had borrowed money from Barclays in 
the form of the BBL, and given there was no official record of E having ceased trading, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Barclays to follow their standard arrears processes to try to 
recover that money. And I think that this reasonably includes Barclays attempting to contact 
E by text message in the frequency that Barclays did.
Mr J may contend that given the information he gave Barclays about E no longer trading 
meant that Barclays shouldnt have continued to attempt to contact E as frequently as it did. 
But as explained above, Barclays had attempted to verify Mr Js claim that E was no longer 
trading, but there was no official record confirming as such. It therefore seems reasonable to 
me that, in the absence of such confirmatory records, Barclays would continue to consider E 
as actively trading and would continue their standard arrears and recovery processes, 
including the sending of letters and text messages. And given that I feel it was fair for 
Barclays to send the letters and text messages to E as it did, it follows that I dont feel that it 
can be concluded that E incurred any degree of unreasonable inconvenience in its receiving 
and responding to those letters and text messages.
Finally, I note that Barclays did make a payment of £50 to E as compensation for the 
inconvenience incurred as a result of Barclays not confirming to the CS in the first instance 
why E was receiving the text messages and letters from Barclays that it did. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But I note that this amount is solely for the fact that the CS wasnt given accurate information in the first instance, and wasnt for the actual 
receipt of the letters and text messages, which as explained above I feel was fair and 
reasonable. It also must be noted that the CS was the registered point of contact with 
Barclays until Mr J later updated the point of contact to being himself. Im therefore satisfied 
that the £50 payment of compensation to E for the inconvenience described above is a fair 
compensation amount, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I might have 
instructed Barclays to have paid, had they not already done so.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards E in the manner which Mr J contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. I realise this wont 
be the outcome Mr J was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all that Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman