DRN-2402025
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with The Co-operative Bank Plcs (The Co-op) automated fraud protection 
system on his bank account.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr P was buying petrol on his way home from a big shopping trip when 
his card stopped working. He knew he had enough money in his account and that hed 
correctly entered his PIN, but the transaction was declined. A stranger covered the cost of 
Mr Ps petrol so he could return home.
Mr P called The Co-op the next day to determine why his card hadnt worked and it 
explained his card had been blocked by its fraud protection systems. It explained that his 
transactions that day had suggested fraud could be occurring on his card, so it was 
automatically blocked. It explained it does have a text alert system, so if he gave a mobile 
number then hed receive a text message when this happened, so he could unblock the card 
if he was carrying out the transaction. Mr P said he didnt carry his mobile phone with him 
and that he didnt agree hed spent in an unusual or suspicious way. So he raised a 
complaint.
Mr P felt The Co-Ops fraud system wasnt fit for purpose. He explained his card isnt 
contactless and so someone would need his PIN to use the card in shops. He said that he 
always uses his card the same way, in the same locations and so his spending that day 
wasnt out of the ordinary. He expected the fraud system to be more intelligent and so look 
for what was unusual for that customer, rather than applying an approach to all customers.
The Co-op explained that its fraud system identifies patterns of possible fraudulent 
behaviour. And in this case, as his spending that day matched a known pattern, it flagged on 
the system and the payment was declined. It said that the system is designed to protect 
consumers and had acted in the way it was intended to, so it didnt uphold the complaint. It 
did however offer Mr P £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He explained that his spending pattern that day 
wasnt unusual for him  so his card shouldnt have been blocked. He felt The Co-ops 
system needed to be improved to look more closely at the customer and how they usually 
spent before applying a block. And he was unhappy that The Co-op were saying that he 
should carry his mobile phone to unblock the card, as he didnt want to do this.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the account terms explain that 
transactions wont be authorised if fraud is suspected. And as Mr P had made a number of 
transactions in a short time and thered recently been fraud occurrences at petrol stations, 
this is why the card was blocked. He understood the blocked transaction was genuine and 
left Mr P is a very difficult situation. But he was satisfied The Co-op had acted fairly in 
blocking the card, as its fraud protocols had been activated. 
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He reiterated that he didnt wish to 
be tied to his mobile phone to use his card. He said he was keen to see his account 
protected from fraud, but that these systems should be applied intelligently. So the complaint 
was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ps frustration in this case, as I appreciate hes entitled to spend his money 
as he wishes. However, The Co-op also has a duty to protect him from fraud. That is why his 
bank account terms and conditions explain it wont make a payment if it suspects its 
fraudulent. And unfortunately, as Mr P likes to do all his shopping on one day and shops in a 
number of different places in a short space of time, his spending pattern does match a 
pattern known to be used by fraudsters.
As Mr P is aware, I have corresponded with The Co-op to determine if there was anything it 
could put in place that would allow him to spend in the way he chooses, but also still provide 
him with fraud protection. But its explained that any adjustments it made would leave him 
(and it) more vulnerable to fraud. It understandably wasnt comfortable with this position and 
I cant say it would be fair to put either Mr P or The Co-op at risk of fraudulent transactions.
I understand Mr Ps card isnt contactless, so I appreciate that if it was stolen the thief 
wouldnt have access to his PIN, which technically puts him at less risk than if he had a 
contactless card. But that doesnt change my view that The Co-op is right to protect his 
account with the same fraud systems it uses for all its customers.
I do empathise with the situation Mr P is in. But the fraud protection system The Co-op 
provides is designed to automatically review suspicious activity on customer accounts and 
quickly step-in to protect them. The level of detail Mr Ps suggested for the system isnt 
something The Co-op provides at the moment  and isnt something I can ask it to 
implement.
As each customer is entitled to  and will  spend differently, I cant say what Mr P is asking 
of The Co-op is reasonable. While the system hes described would resolve his situation, it 
isnt practical for a bank to develop an individual, automated fraud system for every 
customer, which is effectively what hes asking for. I also accept a person reviewing Mr Ps 
account usage would likely determine the petrol station purchase was genuine. But 
considering hes able to use his card 24 hours a day and a decision needs to be made 
instantly on whether to approve a transaction or not  this wouldnt be a practical solution 
either. The Co-op has an automated system that works off knowledge of general fraud 
patterns for this reason, so a quick decision is made and potential fraud is prevented.
Im satisfied that The Co-ops fraud system has acted as intended in this case. While I 
appreciate this was a genuine transaction, as the pattern matched a known fraudulent 
pattern, the payment wasnt authorised. So I cant say The Co-op has done something 
wrong here.
The Co-op has also explained to Mr P a way that he can instantly unblock his card in this 
situation, as it could (and I understand did) occur again  by using the text alert service. As 
Mr P does already own a mobile phone, I think that signing up for texts is a reasonable 
solution in this situation. I appreciate that Mr P is entitled to not carry a mobile phone and its 
his choice if he doesnt want to sign up to text alerts. But I think The Co-op has put forward a 
way to resolve this situation that Mr P is able to benefit from, if he wanted. So Im not 
directing it to do or offer anything further.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman