DRN-1806025
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs W says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs Ws credit card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It gave 
her two options to choose from: one to buy PPI, and one to turn it down. The option to buy 
PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mrs W signed the form to 
confirm her choices. Ive not seen any wider problems with Barclays sales process from the 
time, nor any evidence which shows that Mrs W was misled here. So I think its most likely 
that Barclays made it clear Mrs W didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  
though I can understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs W, so it had to check that the policy was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Mrs W was eligible for the cover. She mentioned she was later 
diagnosed with medical conditions, but this wasnt until some years after the sale, so they 
were not pre-existing. So it looks like she wasnt affected by any of the policys main 
exclusions or limitations. And Mrs W didnt have any other cover aside from the very limited 
statutory benefits. So the policy couldve been useful for her in case something went wrong.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs W chose to take out the policy, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Mrs W in case something 
went wrong. And so I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her 
off taking it out.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because Barclays didnt tell her, 
that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman