DRN-1925069
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd has breached data protection laws by 
renewing his policy using the same card details he gave to originally purchase his policy. 
Mr H also complains that his renewal price was able to be changed.
What happened
Mr H purchased a car insurance policy through Endsleigh in 2018. He used his payment 
card to make the single payment for the year. In 2019, Endsleigh wrote to Mr H to give him 
his renewal quote and explained it would automatically renew his policy using the same 
payment card.
Mr H complained at this point. He said that the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) 
say a business cannot hold on to personal information for that long. And he hadnt given 
Endsleigh consent to hold on to his card details. So, he believes there was a data breach. 
Mr H also didnt agree with his renewal price  which had increased by around £11. 
Endsleigh re-ran his quote and come back with a quote similar to the previous year. Mr H 
feels this demonstrates that is has wrongly inflated his renewal price.
Endsleigh explained to Mr H that it hadnt breached the GDPR rules. It said that Mr H had 
signed up to a continuous payment authority (CPA) when he took out insurance. This meant 
that the same card would be used for future renewals unless he told Endsleigh that he didnt 
want this to be the case. It did acknowledge that one of its advisors didnt explain this 
correctly to Mr H over the phone and offered Mr H £30 for the trouble and upset this caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that Mr H had signed up to a 
CPA which gave Endsleigh permission to use his card for future renewals. She also 
explained that this service doesnt look at whether there had been a breach of data 
protection laws. But she felt that Endsleigh had applied its processes fairly and in line with 
the terms of Mr Hs policy. The investigator also explained that Endsleigh is an insurance 
broker, so it doesnt set the price of Mr Hs insurance. It was able to re-run the quote and find 
it slightly cheaper. But it wasnt responsible for the pricing of his policy.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator. He felt that this service should be taking into account 
the guidance the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) published. He said its clear this 
shows Endsleigh had to ask for his consent to keep his information and it didnt. So, it has 
breached GDPR. He asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly want to set out that it isnt my role to decide if Endsleigh has breached data protection 
laws. This is for the ICO to decide. But I can look into whether Endsleigh has acted fairly, in 
line with its processes and, if it hasnt, whether Mr H has suffered any detriment.
Holding Mr Hs card details
I can understand it must have been frustrating for Mr H to find out Endsleigh had his card 
details on file when he believed it shouldnt. But I dont think its done anything wrong here. 
Ill explain why.
When Mr H took out his policy he agreed to Endsleighs terms of business. These were 
available for him to look at both before he took out his policy and afterwards. The terms say:
By purchasing a policy with us and paying either a deposit or the full amount of your policy 
by credit or debit card, you provide your consent for us to set up a continuous payment 
authority. This allows us to collect payments from the debit / credit card you used to 
purchase the policy for renewals, mid-term adjustments and any outstanding amounts 
payable by you in the event of cancellation including any administration or cancellation fees. 
Your continuous payment authority can be cancelled at any time by contacting us on
So, by agreeing to the terms of business Mr H was consenting to a CPA. In addition to this, 
Mr Hs welcome letter sent to him on 7 August 2018 when he took out his policy says, in bold 
writing:
Important  at the end of your policy term, we will use the card you originally provided us 
with to automatically renew your cover, unless you tell us to use an alternative card or 
payment method, or not to renew.
So, Mr H was told he was consenting to a CPA being set up, which means Endsleigh would 
have his card details for that purpose. This also ensures that Mr H isnt in a position where 
hes left uninsured if he didnt realise that his insurance was due to renew. I cant see Mr H 
telephoned Endsleigh on the number provided to cancel his CPA. So, I dont think Endsleigh 
has acted unfairly in keeping Mr Hs card details to renew his policy. This was all done in line 
with the terms Mr H signed up to. 
I can see that Endsleigh acknowledged it gave Mr H some incorrect information over the 
phone about how GDPR applies. It apologised for this and offered Mr H £30 for the trouble 
and upset. I think this is fair. It wouldve been frustrating for Mr H to receive this information 
when its clear he knows his rights under GDPR. But I think £30 recognises this frustration 
so I wont ask Endsleigh to do anything more.
Renewal premium
Mr H is unhappy that his renewal premium changed when he contested it. He believes this 
shows his original renewal premium was inflated. Endsleigh is an insurance broker. This 
means it gathers the information from Mr H and submits it to insurers for a quote. When Mr 
H was unhappy that his premium had risen by around £11 Endsleigh re-ran the quote. It was 
able to then find a quote which was near the original cost of Mr Hs policy. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mr Hs renewal quote was inflated, and in any event, its not 
Endsleigh that sets the cost of insurance. So, I dont think it has made any errors here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr H to decide whether to accept Endsleigh 
Insurance Services Limiteds offer for £30 for the incorrect information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Charlotte WilsonOmbudsman