DRN-2919374
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society delayed his ISA transfer request.
 
What happened
Mr C held an Instant Savings Account (ISA) with Nationwide. On 27 April 2020 he requested 
to transfer the funds to another ISA with a different provider.
This transfer didnt go through. And Mr C received letters from the receiving bank telling him 
it couldnt complete his transfer request as there were insufficient funds in his account. The 
transfer didnt take place until 26 August 2020.
Mr C was unhappy with this and complained to Nationwide. He thought it had delayed the 
transfer of his ISA which meant hed missed out on a better interest rate. He also said the 
letters he received caused him distress and inconvenience because he was worried 
someone had stolen the money in his account. He thought Nationwide should compensate 
him by paying the interest hed lost as a result of the delayed transfer. And he thought 
Nationwide should compensate him for the distress of thinking he had insufficient funds in 
his account and the inconvenience of having to go into branch to sort this out.
Nationwide looked into Mr Cs complaint and said it did delay his first request to transfer his 
ISA. It said it processed the request outside of its five working day timeframe and offered Mr 
C £50 compensation for this. But Nationwide said it had accepted the transfer by 9 May 
2020 and was waiting for the receiving bank to request the funds. It says this didnt happen. 
Nationwide said it received a second request to transfer the ISA on 20 August 2020 which 
was blocked by its system due to the first transfer still being open. But it says it was able to 
manually override this and the funds were transferred on 26 August 2020.
Mr C wasnt happy with Nationwides response, so he brought his complaint to us. He didnt 
think the compensation was enough for the stress hed experienced, and he still thought 
Nationwide was responsible for the delay, and the lost interest caused by that delay. And he 
also wasnt happy Nationwide didnt respond to his first complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought the £50 compensation Nationwide offered was fair. He thought the transfer was 
processed outside of Nationwides standards, but that it was still within the allowed industry 
standards. Our investigator didnt think Nationwide were responsible for any delay after the 9 
May 2020. He thought this because Nationwide had shown it accepted the transfer but 
received nothing from the receiving bank. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
he was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
I can see Mr C requested to transfer his ISA on 27 April 2020. And Ive seen this was 
accepted by Nationwide on 11 May 2020 (the next working day following 9 May 2020). I 
cant see that Nationwide received anything more on this transfer.
Ive seen letters Mr C received from the receiving bank telling him it couldnt complete the 
transfer because his account with Nationwide had insufficient funds in it. I can see he 
received such a letter twice, both after the 11 May 2020. And I can fully appreciate how 
concerning these letters would have been. But I cant fairly say this was Nationwides fault. 
This is because there were funds in the account, and theres no record on its system of 
those funds being requested from the receiving bank until the second transfer request was 
made in August.
Nationwide has said that second transfer request was initially blocked. And this is because 
the first request was still open and hadnt expired. And Ive seen system notes showing that 
the transfer was open and due to expire in October. And that a new request was received in 
August and rejected. But Nationwide has said it was able to override this and put in a 
manual ISA transfer request which was completed by 26 August 2020. Nationwide has said 
that if a further request was made, it too would likely have been blocked by its system, but 
its said it would have a record of that. And Im satisfied thats reasonable. There is a clear 
record of this second transfer being made and blocked, so I think its likely thered have been 
a similar sort of record for any earlier request had Nationwide received one.
Nationwide has explained it never received a request for funds between the first request 
being initially delayed and the second request being manually overridden and completed. 
And from what Ive seen the evidence supports that. So, based on this, I dont find it 
reasonable to hold Nationwide responsible for any delay after it was ready to complete the 
transfer on 11 May 2020.
Nationwide did cause some delay, but Im satisfied its offer of £50 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. It didnt meet its own standards, but it was ready to 
complete the transfer within the 15 days allowed by the industry.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman