DRN-3763466
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) is pursuing him for two loans 
which he says he didnt apply for. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here. 
Two loans were taken out with NatWest in October 2018 and May 2019. Both loans were in 
Mr F and his ex-partners (who I refer to here as Ms X) names. The October 2018 loan was 
for £18,000 and the May 2019 loan was for £9,000. Both were paid into one of Mr Fs and 
Ms Xs joint accounts held with NatWest. 
Mr F and Ms X separated in October 2021. Mr F says he first became aware of the loans in 
February 2022 when NatWest provided him with bank statements. Mr F told NatWest that 
Ms X had disappeared. NatWest is now pursuing him for the debt. 
Mr F complained to NatWest, but it said the loans had been taken out in joint names and 
there was no evidence of an error during the application processes. NatWest added that 
both Mr F and Ms X signed the loan agreements, and so were jointly liable for the debt. 
NatWest said its fraud team was also satisfied Mr Fs signature on the loan agreements 
matched what it had on record for him in relation to joint accounts opened in 2009 and 2011. 
NatWest added there was evidence Mr F had benefited from the loans. It said they were 
paid into the same joint account his wages were paid into  and that this account had 
several direct debits for household expenses and finance agreements  which the loan had, 
in part, been used for.  
Mr F referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said he didnt know Ms X had 
taken the loans out. He said she had complete control of their finances, with his consent, but 
had abused this position. Mr F said hed been the victim of economic abuse. 
Mr F said Ms X had redirected their post to a PO Box address which meant he hadnt 
received information about the loans (or any other bank related paperwork). Mr F also said 
Ms X opened joint bank accounts without his knowledge (one of which the loans were 
initially paid into), and other accounts in his sole name with retailers.  He said Ms X was no 
longer contributing to joint financial commitments, including the mortgage. And owed money 
to other organisations. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Fs complaint but didnt uphold it. She found the evidence 
suggested, on balance, that Mr F knew about the loans and agreed to their terms by signing 
the loan agreements. And so, our Investigator was satisfied both Mr F and Ms X were jointly 
liable for the debt. 
In terms of the joint accounts  our Investigator said Mr F had now acknowledged he knew 
about them  although said he only had access to one. She said the funds from the loans 
had partly been used to service the joint accounts, and it wasnt unusual that some funds 
had gone elsewhere; given this was a joint account and Mr F had confirmed hed consented 
to Ms X overseeing their finances. 
Mr F disagreed with our Investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsmans final 
decision. He said because of the PO Box address he didnt see the loan agreements, nor 
was there any proof he signed them. Mr F said it clearly wasnt his signature on the 
agreements.  
Mr F has also said that the money being transferred to Ms Xs savings account supported his 
argument that he didnt know about the loans. 
He also wanted to know why his contact details werent on the loan documentation  and if 
they had been  why NatWest hadnt contacted him to say the applications had been 
successful.  And he wanted us to consider evidence hed provided which he said proved 
Ms Xs abuse of his finances, and that shed done the same by fraudulently applying for the 
loans in joint names. 
Finally, Mr F wanted to know why NatWest wasnt chasing Ms X for the debt. He said it was 
unfair for NatWest to be pursuing him, because he didnt apply for the loans or agree to the 
terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr F and Id like to assure him I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive considered very carefully all the evidence provided  particularly the 
documentary evidence from NatWest in connection to Mr Fs signature on the loan 
agreements and Mr Fs testimony as to why he was unaware of the loans and didnt agree to 
them.  And Id like to assure Mr F that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I 
havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the 
outcome of this complaint.
I should also add that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it 
is here), I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
NatWest has confirmed that both loan applications were made online. But unfortunately, the 
applications themselves are no longer available. So, the only documentary evidence I have 
are the two loan agreements from October 2018 and May 2019, signed (wet signatures) and 
dated by Mr F and Ms X. Copies of the agreements were sent to Mr F as part of our 
investigation. 
NatWest is satisfied Mr Fs signature on both agreements matches the signature it has on 
record for him. But Mr F said he never saw the agreements, and this isnt his signature. 
Given Ms X oversaw the finances, it doesnt seem unusual to me that her contact details are 
on the agreements, and its not completely implausible that she applied for the loans without Mr Fs involvement and/or knowledge. But the key documents here are the loan agreements. 
These wouldve been produced by NatWest to ensure both applicants were aware the loans 
had been approved and that they fully agreed and understood the terms they were entering 
in to (amount borrowed, term of the borrowing, repayment plan and interest rate).
The need for the agreements to be signed with a wet signature also allowed NatWest to 
compare those signatures to identification data it holds on the applicants  in this case other 
signatures provided by Mr F and Ms X in relation to their NatWest accounts. 
Ive looked back at signatures Mr F provided in relation to joint accounts applied for in 2009 
and 2011. As part of our investigation, Mr F now accepts he knew about these accounts  
and the 2009 signature also looks to have been provided in branch as well as on the account 
application. Ive seen nothing to dispute the 2009 and 2011 signatures arent Mr Fs. 
I can see there are some similarities between the signatures, but also some differences. 
Signatures do vary over time, and Im not a handwriting expert, so it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to definitively conclude that the signatures on the loan agreements are or are not 
Mr Fs. But I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to have accepted the loan 
agreements as having been signed by Mr F, and I dont have enough evidence to say that 
was wrong.
Ive thought next about Mr Fs points as to why this isnt his signature. He says the signature 
is clearly not his and could easily be forged. But as Ive said above, looking at other account 
signatures, Im afraid I cant disagree with NatWests position that the signatures are a 
match. And Ive seen no evidence to support the signatures were forged. 
Mr F has also mentioned that Ms X has committed other fraud against him and had all their 
post redirected to a PO Box  so he says he wouldnt have received the loan agreements to 
sign. He also believes the way in which the money was spent supports his allegation that he 
knew nothing about the loans.
I appreciate Mr F thinks the wider allegations against Ms X should inform my decision here, 
and I have taken all hes said into consideration. But I must look at the actions of NatWest to 
ensure it has been fair and reasonable and followed due process in agreeing the loans and 
making Mr F and Ms X aware of the terms. 
Ive considered Mr Fs testimony about the signatures, the PO Box address, and that Ms X 
ran their combined finances with his consent. But on the evidence I have, Im not persuaded 
I can safely find it wasnt Mr Fs signature on the loan agreements. And Ive seen no 
documentary evidence to confirm that Mr Fs post was redirected without his knowledge. 
What I do know is that NatWest considered the applications, approved them, and sent the 
agreements to the correct address to be signed. It had no concerns over the validity of the 
signatures from either party  and the loans were processed accordingly. Taking all this into 
account, I cant say NatWest did anything wrong here. 
Ive looked next at where the loan money went and what it was used for. Both loans were 
initially paid into one of Mr F and Ms Xs joint accounts (Mr F has told us he knew about this 
account but had no access to it). The £18,000 loan was then transferred to a savings 
account in Ms Xs sole name. £4,000 of the £9,000 loan was also transferred to Ms Xs 
savings account. 
I can see from the bank statements that after each loan was credited to Ms Xs savings 
account, there were numerous transfers over a period of months from that account to the 
two joint accounts (one of which Mr F has said he did have access to), as well as transfers between the two joint accounts. The funds are then used to pay various household 
expenses. 
From looking at the statements it seems to me theres a clear pattern to show that Mr F and 
Ms Xs finances were managed by transferring money (including the loans) between all three 
of the accounts  ensuring theres sufficient funds to cover their expenses. This is in line with 
Mr Fs acceptance that Ms X oversaw their finances, with the loans seemingly being part of 
that process  helping with personal expenditure. I can also see that personal expenditure 
is listed on the loan agreements as the reason for the borrowing  which again is in keeping 
with the evidence Ive seen from the bank statements. 
Mr F main point is that the loans were taken out fraudulently, without his knowledge, and so 
he isnt liable for them. Ive thought about this very carefully. But as Ive said above, I dont 
have enough evidence to conclude that it wasnt Mr Fs signature on the loan agreements, 
and I think it was reasonable for NatWest to conclude it was. He agreed that Ms X would 
manage the household finances, and Im satisfied the money was ultimately used for 
household expenditure which benefitted both of them. 
So, based on that, Im satisfied, on balance, that NatWest are acting fairly when holding both 
Mr F and Ms X jointly liable for the debt, including the applicable interest and charges. 
Im sorry Ive been unable to provide Mr F with the outcome he wanted. But while I 
appreciate his strength of feeling and can totally understand why hes wanted to pursue 
matters; I dont believe NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances in 
holding him jointly liable for this debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman