DRN-2756789
The complaint
Ms F complains that Loans 2 Go Limited acted irresponsibly by granting her loans that were 
unaffordable. She says she doesnt believe Loans 2 Go gave consideration to her credit 
report.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Ms F with a loan for £500 in January 2018 and loans for £1,000 in 
April, May and June 2018. Ms F later complained that Loans 2 Go lent to her irresponsibly. 
She said it would have been evident she was unable to meet the loan repayments. She said 
she already had numerous defaults and a county court judgment against her.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree the lending was irresponsible. It said it had conducted thorough 
affordability assessments prior to approving the loans. It was willing to write off all the 
interest applied to Ms Fs active account, meaning she would only be liable to repay the 
principal sum of £1,000 borrowed.
Ms F remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Ms Fs concerns. She didnt think Loans 2 Go had acted unfairly in relation to 
loan 1 but she thought loans 2, 3 and 4 shouldnt have been approved if Loans 2 Go had 
carried out proportionate checks. 
Ms F agreed with our investigators view. But Loans 2 Go felt that her complaint should only 
be upheld for loans 3 and 4. It said Ms Fs credit reports were mostly positive when it 
granted loans 1 and 2. It acknowledged there was some adverse information on Ms Fs 
credit file but said this would normally be expected given the type of lending Loans 2 Go 
provide. So, Ms Fs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Both parties have accepted our investigators view that Loans 2 Gos decision to approve 
loan 1 was reasonable and that loans 3 and 4 shouldnt have been granted. So, Ive focused 
my decision on Loans 2 Gos decision to approve loan 2.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Loans 2 Go to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Ms F could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Ms F undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her. 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Loans 2 Go provided loan 2 to Ms F in April 2018. The loan was for £1,000 which was to be 
repaid over a period of 18 months. The high interest rate (of 990% APR) meant that Ms F 
was required to pay back significantly more than she borrowed  a total of £4,078.88. She 
was looking to borrow further funds even before shed paid off what she already owed. So, I 
think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned about why Ms F needed further funds on 
such disadvantageous terms so quickly. With this in mind, I think it was important for Loans 
2 Go to establish if Ms F could repay the debt sustainably. In other words, that she would be 
able to do so without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and 
without having to borrow further.
Loans 2 Go says that before approving the loan, it carried out an affordability assessment 
which included checking Ms Fs credit file. 
Ms F provided payslips for the three months prior to the loan being agreed which showed a 
net monthly pay of £2,782.42. Loans 2 Go completed an income and expenditure form with 
Ms F which indicated she had a disposable income of £638.77 after taking her existing credit 
commitments into account. This suggested the monthly loan repayments of £226.56 were 
affordable for her. 
But Loans 2 Go has also provided a copy of Ms Fs credit report from the time it approved 
loan 2 and I think information on there was concerning. The credit file showed Ms F had 
defaulted on a payday loan less than two months before, after falling into arrears on her 
repayments. Loans 2 Go says this wasnt classed as active at the time. I can see the status 
is showing as unknown in March 2018 after the default was applied in February 2018. But 
the balance of £884 remained. So, I think this information should have prompted Loans 2 Go 
gather further information to satisfy itself that Ms F could sustainably meet her loan 
repayments over the term of the loan.  I think it ought to have realised that it needed to look 
further into Ms Fs financial position  for example by asking to see her bank statements.
 
Ive reviewed copies of Ms Fs bank statements for the three months leading up to her 
application for loan 2.  If Loans 2 Go had looked at these, I think it would have been clear 
that Ms F was having difficulty managing her finances. She had taken out logbook loans that 
were secured against her car, as well as loans secured against other assets. Ms F was also 
engaging in online trading of contracts for difference which are high risk products where 
consumers can lose more than their initial investment. There are multiple transactions on  
Ms Fs statements which show she was spending a large proportion of her salary on these. 
While different checks show different things, I think if Loans 2 Go had carried out what Id 
consider to be proportionate checks, it would have discovered more about Ms Fs financial 
situation. In these circumstances, I think reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have alerted Loans 2 Go to the fact that Ms F was unlikely to be able to make 
the repayments on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences. It follows 
that Loans 2 Go ought reasonably to have realised that it wouldnt have been appropriate to 
grant Ms F the second loan. 
Putting things rightI think its fair and reasonable for Ms F to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
because shes had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on 
loans that shouldnt have been provided to her. So, Loans 2 Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from loans 2, 3 and 4 and treat all the 
payments Ms F made as payment towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Fs loan accounts results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these 
overpayments with 8% per annum simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they would have arisen to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Ms Fs loan accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Loans 2 Go should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Ms F for the revised balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Fs credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Fs complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman