DRN-4416120
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (trading as Chase) wont reimburse him in full 
for the money he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr B saw an advert for an investment opportunity on social media, and registered his 
interest. He was contacted by someone who said they could help him with investing and sent 
him a link to a website with positive reviews for their services. Mr B was encouraged to open 
a cryptocurrency account with a third-party business (which Ill call T) and then to make 
payments from his Chase account to T and then on to the scammer.
Mr B made three payments totalling over £23,000 from his Chase account. But when he 
mentioned what he had done to his wife that evening she immediately identified that it was a 
scam. Mr B contacted Chase to tell it what had happened. Chase looked into the payments 
and refunded the first two to Mr B  for £150 and £8,124. It says this is because it didnt 
intervene in the first payment and, when it spoke to Mr B about the second payment it didnt 
provide him with any appropriate warnings despite the fact that Mr B had told it the payment 
was for an investment. But Chase told Mr B it would not be able to refund the last payment 
he made  for £15,000  because it had spoken to him when he made that payment and felt 
it had provided appropriate warnings, but that Mr B had not been honest about what this 
payment was for. So Chase didnt feel it could have done more to prevent this payment 
being made.
Mr B was unhappy with Chases response and so he referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, and ultimately they felt that Chase 
could have done more when questioning Mr B about the third payment, particularly given the 
previous contact about the earlier payment to the same beneficiary. They felt that, if Chase 
had questioned Mr B more about what was happening, then the scam would have been 
uncovered and the last payment could have been prevented. However, the Investigator also 
felt that Mr B should bear some responsibility for what had happened. They did not consider 
he had done enough to ensure the firm he was dealing with was legitimate, and felt there 
were some red flags which should have indicated to Mr B that something may be amiss. 
So our Investigator recommended that Chase refund 50% of the third payment, plus some 
interest.
Mr B accepted the Investigators findings, Chase did not. It maintains that Mr B lied to it 
about the reason for the third payment, and so does not feel that it could have done more to 
intervene.
As no agreement could be reached, this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Its not disputed that Mr B authorised the payments that are the subject of this complaint. So 
as per the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place 
here) that means Mr B is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mr B was 
the unfortunate victim of a scam.
Chase also includes details in its terms and conditions about when it will refund authorised 
payments. Specifically, those terms state:
If, taking everything into account when the payment was made, we (Chase) find you 
shouldve known you were being tricked into sending money to a fraudster you wont get a 
refund.
Chase has suggested that Mr B did not carry out appropriate due diligence, the implication 
being that he should have known he was potentially being tricked given how little he knew 
about the investment firm he was dealing with. And I agree that, given what he knew at the 
time, Mr B should have known he was potentially at risk of financial harm. It doesnt appear 
that he did any research into the people he was dealing with and there were features of the 
scam that should have given him pause for thought. For example, the returns really being 
too good to be true and that hed been told his investment capital was guaranteed.
With all this in mind, Mr B is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory
landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account
providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent
customers falling victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Chase acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr B, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Its not in dispute here that the payment for £15,000 was suspicious. Chase flagged it as 
such and asked Mr B to make contact to discuss it before it could be approved. And Chase 
had already done the same on a previous payment, for £8,124. So its clear that Chase was 
already on notice that something suspicious might be going on, as it had flagged two 
payments in one day for further checks.
The question then is whether, when contact was made with Mr B, Chase did enough to find 
out what was going on and to ensure Mr B was protected from potential scams. And having 
looked carefully at what was discussed, I dont think Chase did do enough.
I acknowledge that, when asked what the £15,000 payment was for Mr B said he was 
moving funds to a savings account to pay bills, but while I wouldnt expect Chase to second 
guess every answer they are given in these kinds of discussions, I think that in the particular 
circumstances of this case it should have probed further. I say this because this was not a 
payment in isolation, Mr B had made two previous payments to the same beneficiary that 
same day. His payments had started with a small payment and then had increased. And 
when Chase had spoken to Mr B about the previous payment he had told it the payment was 
for an investment.
So the overall picture was concerning, and I dont think that it was therefore reasonable for 
Chase to take what Mr B said at face value without asking some more detailed questions or 
perhaps providing a detailed scam warning regarding investment scams. I acknowledge that Chase did provide Mr B with a scam warning during the conversation, but that was very 
much geared towards safe account scams, and Chase should have been aware that Mr B 
might be at risk of falling victim to an investment scam given what he had told it about the 
previous payment he made.
Had Chase questioned Mr B more closely, then I think it is more likely than not that the scam 
would have been uncovered. Chase has said that Mr B lied about the reason for the 
payment but that doesnt appear to have been an intentional attempt to deceive Chase or 
something he said at the request of the scammers. It doesnt seem that Mr B was given any 
cover story by the scammers. So I think if Chase had referred back to the payments Mr B 
had already made to the same beneficiary that day  and which it knew were for an 
investment  then Mr B would have been honest about what was happening and that would 
have rung alarm bells for Chase, given that these types of investment scam are becoming 
increasingly common. Chase could then have explained the risk Mr B was exposing himself 
to, and I consider it likely that the spell of the scam would have been broken and Mr B 
wouldnt have proceeded with the payment. I think its also worth noting here that Chase has 
itself said that it should have done more to educate Mr B about investment scams when it 
discussed the £8,124 payment with him. Its arguable that if it had done so then the third 
payment may never have even been attempted.
I do, however, agree with our Investigators finding that Mr B ought to have thought twice 
before investing such large sums of money with a firm that he knew little about. I agree that it 
appears Mr B did no real independent research of his own, and as noted earlier in this 
decision, there were issues with the way the scammers were operating that I think should 
have indicated to Mr B that he might not be dealing with a legitimate investment firm. For 
example, he was told he could make large profits in a short space of time and was told his 
capital was guaranteed. Both of these promises really should have been seen as too good to 
be true. So with this in mind, I think its fair and reasonable for Mr B to bear responsibility for 
50% of the loss.
Ive also thought about whether Chase could have done more to recover the funds after Mr B 
reported the fraud. I do think Chase could have contacted the beneficiary more quickly, but 
given that these were payments to a cryptocurrency account, I dont think quicker reporting 
would have made any difference to the recovery of the funds.
So, in summary, I consider that Chase could have done more to protect Mr B from the risk of 
financial harm when it contacted him about the £15,000 payment. So I think it is reasonable 
for Chase to bear responsibility for that loss. I do though consider that Mr B also shares 
responsibility for his loss here. So I consider it fair and reasonable for Chase to refund 50% 
of that amount to Mr B (minus the £900 that he was able to recover from the account with T 
himself), along with interest at our standard compensatory rate of 8%.Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Chase should:
- Refund 50% of the £14,100 outstanding loss
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum from the date of the payment to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (trading as Chase) should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman