DRN-2551514
The complaint
Mrs Y is unhappy with the amount Advantage Insurance Company Limited paid in settlement 
of her car insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs Y was involved in a car accident. Advantage deemed the car a total loss and decided to 
settle the claim by paying the cars market value, less the policy excess. They valued       
Mrs Ys car at £22,320. Mrs Y thought the valuation was too low and doesnt think its 
possible to replace her car with a similar one for the amount they paid. 
Mrs Y looked at online car adverts and says her car is worth between £25,000 and £28,000. 
But Advantage said they had relied on valuation guides and offered the highest value they 
found. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and felt Advantages offer was fair and within the 
range of figures produced by the valuation guides. Mrs Y didnt agree, she says: 
the car had been valued at £25,000 when her policy was renewed, 
the valuations shouldnt have been based on trade prices, and
the valuation didnt include optional extra features that had been added to the 
vehicle.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached. Ill explain why. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mrs Ys policy, Advantage must pay her the market value of the 
car, less her excess.
The policy terms define the market value as:
The cost of replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. 
Mrs Ys insurance schedule shows she valued her car at £26,000 when she renewed her 
policy a few weeks prior to the accident. While I appreciate her frustrations, I dont think 
Advantage need to pay her what she declared its value to be, or the amount the car was 
insured for. This is because, the policy terms only require Advantage to pay the cars market 
value at the time of the accident. So, the issue for me to decide is whether Advantage has 
treated Mrs Y fairly when valuing her car and I think it has.
Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuation the guides 
give are based on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age 
and mileage for sale at the time of loss. We find theyre more reliable than individual adverts, 
which can be misleading as often cars arent sold at the advertised price. Once negotiations 
take place, they will often sell for a lower price than advertised.
The valuation guides usually provide different figures for the sale of a car in different 
markets. For example, cars sold at auction or privately often sell at a lower price than those 
sold at a dealership. When working out what the fair market value of a car is, we would 
generally rely on figures for cars sold by car dealership companies in the retail market. Ive 
looked at Advantages searches and Im satisfied their valuation is based on the retail market 
values produced by the guides and not trade prices.
A car may have optional extra features added to it, but they rarely add a significant amount 
to its value.  And more often we find that these optional features dont increase the value a 
vehicle is sold for. The guides can take into account optional extras when calculating a 
valuation figure. And Im satisfied Advantage did include the optional extra features in        
Mrs Ys car, but the guides showed they didnt make much difference to its value.
As I mentioned earlier, our role is to decide whether the valuation is in line with the terms of 
the policy and what is fair and reasonable. The guides produce different values for a car, so 
we usually find a fair valuation would fall somewhere between the range of figures 
suggested by the guides. The guides Advantage looked at gave values of £22,300 and 
£21,913. We also looked at two other guides and these produced market values of £23,400 
and £21,545. Advantages valuation of £22,320 falls within the range of figures Ive seen, so 
I think its fair. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs Y, but Im satisfied Advantage carried 
out a fair valuation of her car. So, I wont ask them to do any more than they already have.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman