DRN-3665135
The complaint
Mr L says Salary Finance Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr Ls complaint is about a loan provided by SFL. The loan was for £24,571 and was 
advanced in April 2021.
Mr L complains that SFL irresponsibly lent to him.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint and thought that SFL hadnt made a fair lending 
decision based on the results of the checks it carried out.
SFL disagreed with the adjudicator so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice are set out on this services 
website.
SFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr L could afford to prepay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the length of the agreement, the frequency and amount of the repayments, the 
total amount repayable and what SFL knew about Mr L at the time he applied for the loan.
I can see that SFL obtained information about Mr Ls income and expenditure and his credit 
commitments. SFL used this information to calculate Mr Ls disposable income and made an 
assessment of whether the loan was affordable.
The adjudicator thought that these checks were reasonable and proportionate but found that 
the decision to lend was unfair. I agree with the adjudicator that the checks were reasonable 
and proportionate. So, Ive focussed on whether the decision to lend was fair, based on the 
results of the checks.
Mr Ls monthly outgoings (not including credit commitments) were £1726 as evidenced on 
his application form, which is significantly higher than the figure of £729 used in SFLs 
calculations.
The stated purpose of the loan was debt consolidation. However, theres no information 
about which debts Mr L intended to consolidate. Mr Ls credit commitments at the time of the 
application were £334, with this figure representing minimum repayments rather than 
reducing the overall debt.
Taking this information into account, Mr Ls consumer credit repayments (including the 
monthly payments of £632 for the loan) represented a significant proportion of his income. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I dont think Mr L could afford to repay what he was 
being lent in a sustainable manner. It seems likely that Mr L wouldve needed to arrange 
further borrowing to meet his commitments. Taking everything into consideration, I dont 
think the decision to lend was fair.
Putting things right
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct the business to 
pout the complainant back in the position they would be in had the mistake not happened, as 
far as is reasonably practical.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr L in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loan. But Mr L was given the loan and hes used the money and made 
repayments.
In this case, I think its fair that Mr L should only have to repay the money hes borrowed and 
had use of. So, I think SFL should refund the interest and charges Mr L has paid on the loan. 
I also think SFL should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to the loan, so that Mr L isnt adversely affected by SFLs decision to lend to him 
irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Salary Finance Loans Limited must:
1.Add up the total amount of money that Mr L received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments made by Mr L should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr L having paid more than he received, any overpayments should be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made to the date of settlement. *
If any capital balance remains outstanding, SFL must try to agree an affordable payment 
plan with Mr L
2.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the loan
*HMRC require SFL to take off tax from the refund of interest. SFL must give Mr L a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman