DRN-1286688
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service provided by Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria), 
previously known as CIS General Insurance Limited, when he paid for his home contents 
insurance.
What happened
When Mr C paid for his home contents cover over the phone, Soteria said it could no longer 
give him an authorisation code. Mr C was unhappy about this because he said the code 
provided him with immediate confirmation that his payment had gone through. 
The call handler said Mr Cs bank statement show the payment had been successful and 
would include Mr Cs policy number as a reference. Mr C said this would mean hed need to 
wait a month for confirmation that the payment had gone through, which he wasnt happy 
about. The call handler offered to post Mr C a receipt for the payment, but Mr C was still 
unhappy. He complained because he wanted an authorisation code and was unhappy his 
policy number would appear on his bank statement for others to see. Mr C also complained 
because his complaint would be referred to Soterias complaints department rather than a 
company director.
A few days later, Soteria sent Mr C a letter saying, Thanks for your recent request  please 
find enclosed replacement documents taking the changes you asked for into account. The 
letter included a copy of Mr Cs Home Insurance Policy Details. But Mr C hadnt made any 
changes to his policy. Mr C complained again.
 
Soteria issued its final response letter to Mr Cs first complaint about authorisation codes and 
declined it. Its response mentioned the receipt sent to Mr C and said its system had been 
updated because of industry guidelines. It said it asks policyholders to check their bank 
statements to ensure payments are debited and includes policy numbers as references 
when it takes payments to help policyholders identify their payments on their bank 
statements. It noted Mr Cs bank statement is a document private to Mr C. 
Soteria issued a final response to Mr Cs complaint about the letter. It upheld this complaint 
saying the letter had been issued in error and sent Mr C a cheque for £10 to cover the cost 
of his calls to Soteria about the matter. 
Three weeks later, Soteria issued another final response to another complaint Mr C had 
made because hed been given an authorisation code when he paid for his motor insurance 
after being told he couldnt be given one when paying for his household insurance. Soterias 
response said that it had come to light that advisers can locate authorisation codes and 
apologised. It gave Mr C the authorisation code for his home insurance payment and said it 
would put a note on its system to ensure advisers can retrieve authorisation codes in future 
for Mr C if he requests them.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. He felt Soteria were withholding information and that he 
shouldnt have to prompt it to provide authorisation codes. He was unhappy his policy 
number would appear on his bank statements and that Soteria sent him a letter saying hed 
made changes to his policy when instead hed requested an acknowledgement letter.  He 
wanted Soteria to change its systems and for Soteria to be reported to the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaints. She said it wasnt our role to tell 
businesses to change their systems or to punish Soteria for not providing Mr C with an 
authorisation code and then later realising it could. She didnt think it unreasonable for 
Soteria to include policy numbers as payment references on customers bank statements or 
for Mr C to have to ask Soteria for an authorisation code. She felt £10 was reasonable 
compensation for the letter issued in error. Mr C requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role to tell businesses what their procedures and processes should be. Mr C 
would need to raise any concerns he has about who reviews complaints at Soteria - or about 
Soterias payment systems and how they provide authorisation codes - with the Financial 
Conduct Authority. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Soteria to include Mr Cs policy number in its payment 
references for the reasons it stated in its final response, or for Mr Cs policy number to be 
included on his bank statement because of this.
 
Soteria has given Mr C the authorisation code for his household insurance payment. It has 
told Mr C he can request authorisation codes from it in the future and noted instructions on 
its system so call handlers can retrieve these codes for Mr C. I dont think it will cause any 
inconvenience to Mr C to ask Soteria for an authorisation code should he require one when 
he makes a payment. So Soteria have done what Id have expected it to here. 
Soteria has admitted the letter it sent to Mr C about policy changes was sent in error.
Soteria has already issued Mr C with a cheque for £10 as compensation. Given that Mr C 
has said he does not want compensation and because I dont think Soteria have been unfair 
or unreasonable, I dont think Soteria need do anything further.
My final deciion
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman