DRN-2618935
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has unfairly refused to cover 
the costs of a legal opinion under their legal expenses insurance policy. Theyre also 
unhappy with the terms of appointment offered to their chosen solicitors.
Where I refer to IPA, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C made a claim under their legal expenses policy for the costs of pursuing an 
employment dispute. IPA funded a barristers assessment of the claim to determine whether 
it enjoyed reasonable prospects of being successful, which is a requirement of cover under 
the policy. 
The barristers opinion was that it didnt have reasonable prospects  so IPA declined the 
claim. But Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. Theyd taken advice from their own solicitor who felt 
the claim did enjoy reasonable prospects. So they asked IPA to reconsider. IPA took further 
advice from the barrister, but the opinion remained the same. 
Mr and Mrs C decided to obtain a barristers opinion of their own. They asked IPA if it would 
reimburse the costs of doing so if the legal opinion was supportive of the claim. But IPA said 
the cost of challenging the legal opinion would be their responsibility.
Mr and Mrs C went ahead and obtained a barristers opinion, which said prospects of 
success were at least 60%. Again, they asked IPA to meet the costs, but it refused. However 
it was prepared to accept the claim now that prospects had been established, and it sent 
terms of appointment to Mr and Mrs Cs chosen solicitor.
The solicitor wasnt prepared to accept the hourly rate offered by IPA along with several of 
the terms of appointment. Following some negotiations, an hourly rate was agreed as well as 
some proposed changes to the terms. But the section entitled referral points where the 
solicitor is asked to seek approval from IPA before taking certain actions remain in dispute. 
Mr and Mrs C raised a complaint. Theyre unhappy that:
1. IPA refuse to reimburse the legal costs of obtaining a barristers opinion; 
2. the proposed terms  in particular, the referral points  are unreasonable. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the policy was clear that it would only 
cover costs which had been agreed in advance. And as IPA had refused to pay the cost of 
the barristers opinion, it wasnt covered by the policy. She also thought it was fair for IPA to 
have some control over the actions taken in the legal case given that it would be responsible 
for the costs of pursuing it. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigator. They said that whilst the policy does decline 
to pay costs which havent been agreed in advance, it didnt mean IPAs decision to initially 
refuse the costs was fair. They believe that IPA shouldve accepted the opinion of their 
chosen solicitor at the outset without the need to obtain barristers advice. Or reimburse the 
cost of their barristers opinion on the basis it was the third opinion sought on the claim. 
Because their barrister found the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success, Mr and 
Mrs C believe the opinion sought by IPA was incorrect. Theyre unhappy IPA wont give out 
the name of the person who carried out the assessment, so they have no way of knowing if 
the barrister is appropriately qualified. They also have concerns there is a conflict of interest 
between IPA and its barrister as commercial relationships may influence the outcome. 
Mr and Mrs C also disagree with our investigators view on the terms of appointment. They 
say the terms as a whole give IPA appropriate control and protection over the costs incurred. 
So the referral points are unnecessary and restrictive. They say these allow IPA to not only 
decide whether the claim should move forward, but also how it should move forward. Theyre 
concerned it will slow down the progress on their claim. And they dont agree this is fair.
As our investigator was unable to resolve things, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision, which said:
Barristers opinion
Its a requirement of Mr and Mrs Cs policy that any intended claim enjoys reasonable 
prospects of being successful. As IPA isnt a legal expert  its an insurer  wed expect it to 
obtain suitably qualified legal advice when making decisions about a claim. And its fair for it 
to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. 
In this case, IPA has obtained advice from a barrister which wasnt supportive. Theres 
nothing to suggest that this advice was obviously wrong, so IPA were entitled to rely on it 
when making a decision about the claim. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C believe that IPA 
shouldve accepted the opinion of their solicitor, rather than seeking its own legal advice. But 
I think IPA are entitled to do its own investigations into whether the claim meets the policy 
terms and conditions. 
As the advice obtained wasnt supportive, Mr and Mrs C were given the option to seek a 
legal challenge from an equally qualified legal professional at their own cost. Mr and Mrs C 
did so, and they believe IPA should meet the cost. But I dont agree. IPA has already paid for 
a barristers opinion. And as Ive explained above, it was entitled to rely on it to decline the 
claim. At that point, the obligation was on Mr and Mrs C to prove they had a valid claim 
under the policy terms, and the cost of doing so would be their responsibility, regardless of 
the outcome.
Mr and Mrs C believe that as their barrister thought prospects of success were reasonable, 
this means IPAs barrister was incorrect. As such, IPA should fund their barristers opinion. 
But again, I dont agree. A legal opinion is just that  an opinion. Its not unusual for legally 
qualified professionals to differ in opinion; if they all agreed thered be no need for litigation. 
It should also be noted that IPAs barrister didnt say the claim had no prospects of 
succeeding, they just didnt believe them to be above 51% as required by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs C are concerned whether the barrister is suitably qualified as they havent been 
provided with their details. Im aware of who conducted the assessment. And whilst I cant 
share the details with them, I can confirm that the barrister is suitably qualified in 
employment law. 
Mr and Mrs C are also concerned there is a conflict of interest between IPA and its barrister. 
They say its in the insurers best interest that claims dont meet the policy requirements, so theyre concerned that barristers will be inclined to say a claim doesnt have reasonable 
prospects to keep insurers happy and maintain the commercial relationship. 
Whilst I appreciate their concerns, there is no evidence that this is the case. I havent seen 
any incentive for the barrister to find that a claim doesnt have reasonable prospects. And 
despite any commercial relationship that may be in place, a barrister will have to provide 
independent and professional advice in line with their rules of professional conduct. 
Having considered all the arguments raised by Mr and Mrs C, Im not persuaded IPA need to 
reimburse the cost of the legal challenge.
Terms of appointment
Mr and Mrs C wish to appoint a solicitor of their own choice to represent them in their 
employment claim. As IPA are prepared to accept the claim and cover the legal costs 
incurred, it needs to agree terms of appointment with the solicitor. This is not unusual in legal 
expenses claims, as an agreement needs to be in place setting out the conditions on which 
funding is provided.
The legal expenses policys terms and conditions say the following in this respect:
Where you have elected to use a legal representative of your own choice you will be
responsible for any Advisers Costs in excess of our Standard Advisers Costs. The 
Adviser must represent you in accordance with our standard conditions of 
appointment available on request.
IPA and the solicitor have now agreed terms, but the referral points remain in dispute. This 
comprises two sections. The first is a list of actions the solicitor must seek prior approval for 
before taking. This includes agreeing a settlement; rejecting a Part 36 offer; issuing court 
proceedings; or issuing an appeal. The second is a list of circumstances the solicitor must 
notify IPA of and seek instructions before taking action. This includes where a conflict of 
interest arises; a defence or counterclaim has been received; or prospects of success have 
deteriorated. 
Mr and Mrs C believe these terms are unreasonable and restrictive. But having read the 
terms in full, I dont think theyre unnecessary. IPA will be responsible for the legal costs 
incurred in pursuing this claim. And each point listed in both sections is something that could 
potentially alter the amount of costs it would be liable for. For example, there are cost 
implications for failing to beat a Part 36 offer. So its understandable that IPA would want 
some control over whether an offer of this nature is rejected as it needs to decide whether 
prospects remain in place for it to stay on risk for these costs. Likewise, if prospects of 
success have deteriorated, it will want to reconsider its position before any further costs are 
incurred. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs Cs concerns that it will slow the progress of their claim down. 
But ultimately, its not Mr and Mrs Cs money at stake here. As theyve chosen to use the 
cover under their legal expenses policy, they will be subjected to the terms and conditions of 
the policy. And as quoted above, if they chose to use a solicitor of their own choice, that 
solicitor must represent them in accordance with IPAs standard conditions of appointment.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the terms of appointment are unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Responses to my provisional decisionIPA accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. But Mr and Mrs C 
didnt. Ive set out a summary of the points theyve raised below:
Barristers opinion
The policy requires a complaint to have prospects of above 50%. But IPAs barrister 
incorrectly refers to prospects needing to be more than 51%.
Where there are two conflicting legal opinions, it isnt fair to place the burden on the 
customer to obtain the third.
Terms of appointment
Its not clear from the provisional decision why I consider that the terms of 
appointment are necessary.
The terms are restrictive because they require the solicitor to stop working whilst they 
seek IPAs approval. In some circumstances  like prospects decreasing from 75% to 
70%  this would be disproportionate as IPAs input wouldnt alter how the case 
proceeds.
Other insurers dont have restrictive terms of appointment of this nature.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as set out in my provisional decision. I 
recognise the strength of feeling Mr and Mrs C have for this matter, and I know this outcome 
will be disappointing to them. So Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C have raised a number of points throughout their complaint. I want to assure 
them that Ive read and considered everything theyve sent us. But I dont intend to respond 
to every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail they would like. This isnt meant 
as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Barristers opinion
In cases where there are two conflicting opinions from legal professionals of equal standing, 
our service would usually take the approach that the insurer should obtain a third opinion to 
settle the dispute, if that was fair in the circumstances of the complaint. But that isnt the 
case here. 
IPA had a barristers opinion which said prospects didnt meet the policy requirements. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs C had a conflicting legal opinion, this was from a solicitor. Our service 
generally places more weight on a barristers advice over that of a solicitor. Thats because 
barristers are usually considered specialists in the area of law theyre being asked to advise 
upon. 
As Ive said, IPA were entitled to rely on the barristers opinion. And in the absence of a legal 
challenge from a comparable legal professional, it was under no obligation to fund a further 
legal opinion. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs concerns about the percentage test applied by IPAs barrister. 
The policy states that prospects must be more than 50%. But the barrister says the claim 
doesnt have more than a 51% chance of success. Whilst the barrister seems to have applied a slightly different test to the prospects of the 
claim, I dont think this makes any difference to the outcome. The barrister said in their 
opinion that there was a high chance of a 100% reduction in compensation for unfair 
dismissal and a likelihood of a 100% reduction in a basic award. On that basis, Im not 
persuaded the claim failed on the 1% in question here; meaning that whatever percentage 
test applied to this case, the claim wouldnt have been covered.
Terms of appointment
The policy terms are clear that if a customer chooses to use a solicitor of their own choice, 
that solicitor must act in accordance with IPAs standard terms of appointment. IPA has 
provided those terms to Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor and so far, it has agreed to increase the 
hourly rate and negotiate on several of the conditions. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs concerns, I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
remaining terms of appointment  the referral points  are unreasonable or unnecessary. As 
Ive said, each referral point relates to an event in a case that could impact the prospects of 
continuing or the amount of costs being incurred. And as IPA are on risk for those costs, 
including any adverse costs should they be awarded, its reasonable to expect IPA to want 
some control over the case.
Ive thought about the example Mr and Mrs C have used about having to seek instructions 
from IPA should prospects decline from 75% to 70%. And that ceasing work on a case to 
obtain approval on something so minor would be unnecessarily disruptive. But I think they 
have misunderstood the referral points. 
The referral point says the solicitor must seek instructions prior to taking any further action 
where the insureds prospects of achieving a successful outcome in the claim have 
deteriorated. I think the referral point is clear that this is for situations where prospects have 
reduced substantially. And in those circumstances, its fair for IPA to want to be informed of 
this along with the reasons why so that it can reassess its position on cover. 
Its not my role to comment on what other insurers do, particularly involving other cases. Im 
limited to looking into the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive thought 
about whether IPA has acted in line with the policys terms and conditions. And whether its 
treated Mr and Mrs C fairly in line with how it would treat other customers in the same 
circumstances. And Im satisfied it has. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman