DRN-3387953
The complaint
The Estate of Mr W complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) have delayed 
settling the outstanding accounts including a Premium Bond account. The Estate is also 
unhappy it was told Mr W had won prizes in the June and July draws for the Premium 
Bonds, when Mr W wasnt eligible.
The Estate is represented by a relative of Mr Ws  who is also called Mr W. To make it clear 
who Im referring to, Ill call him Mr W1.
What happened
My understanding is Mr W1 posted all the documents NS&I needed to close down Mr Ws 
accounts on 5 May 2021. Having not heard anything, after around three weeks he called 
NS&I to find out what was happening. He says he was told NS&I couldnt say how long itd 
take, but theyd write out to him to give an update  or Mr W1 would get a call back  
something he says didnt happen. Mr W1 says he made a second call, and still not getting 
anywhere, then complained about the delays in June 2021. 
Later, Mr W1 contacted NS&I saying hed heard in June and July Mr W had won a £25 prize 
in each draw. Mr W1 said these werent paid to him as NS&I said Mr W wasnt in the draw. 
Mr W1 wasnt happy with this  he said either they werent in the draw in which case he 
shouldnt have been told anything, or they were in the draw in which case the prizes should 
have been paid. He complained in July about this and followed up in October as he didnt 
hear anything.
In response to the issues, NS&I said whatd actually happened was the documents were 
received on 7 May 2021. On 8 July 2021 they wrote out to Mr W1 asking for the Grant of 
Probate, Mr W1 called and said they already had it, and then their mail team checked and 
confirmed on 16 July 2021 the Probate had been received. Between 20-22 July 2021 
payments were then made to Mr W1. On this point, NS&I said the correct documents were 
received on 7 May 2021 and had these been processed properly the payment would have 
been sent on 22 June 2021.
In relation to the two Premium Bond wins in June and July 2021, NS&I said these prizes 
werent actually eligible for payment, as the bonds had been entered into the draw in error. 
This was because the bonds of someone who has passed away can remain for 12 months  
and these two wins were outside of that timescale.
Overall unhappy with NS&Is responses, Mr W1 asked us to look into things. As part of this, 
we asked NS&I for their side of events so we could then consider matters.
NS&I provided this, and offered Mr W1 £100 compensation for the delays, in addition to the 
£50 already offered. Mr W1 said he felt the £100 was a miserly amount for the grief itd 
caused him, so he didnt accept it.
Our Investigator ultimately felt NS&I had done enough to put things right. Mr W1 didnt agree 
with that and asked for the complaint to be escalated. He did ask about accepting the £100 
payment at this time  which I understand has now been paid to him directly meaning in total 
hes been paid £150.
As Mr W1 didnt agree with the outcome, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain the basis on which Im required to consider this 
complaint. Mr W1 is representing the Estate of his Father. So, although Ive referred to 
Mr W1 during the course of this complaint, thats in lieu of calling him an Executor of the 
Estate at every opportunity. The reason this is important is because it affects the basis on 
which I can award compensation. If Mr W1 were complaining about his own accounts, then 
Id be able to consider matters such as the distress hed personally been caused. But, here, 
hes representing the Estate. The Estate isnt a person in its own right, its an entity. Our 
guidelines say for an entity like an Estate, I can only award payments for financial loss 
caused to the entity.
I do appreciate Mr W1s perspective, that as the sole Executor of the Estate this is his 
money. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, he is representing the Estate, and Im 
required to decide the complaint on that basis.
The delays in settling Mr Ws accounts
There is no dispute NS&I caused delays when settling the accounts  NS&I have clearly 
accepted they made errors when processing it. So, the question is whether this has led to 
any kind of financial loss for the Estate. Ill consider this in the appropriate compensation 
section below.
Should NS&I be required to pay Mr W1 the two £25s from June and July 2021?
In short no I dont think this would be fair. The terms and conditions of Premium Bonds do 
state they can only be invested for 12 months after someone has passed away. I think 
Mr W1 was or should have been aware of this, because when he completed the forms he 
said he wanted the Premium Bonds to remain invested  meaning they could still win prizes. 
So, I wont be requiring NS&I to pay the Estate these two payments. For completeness, I can 
see in the letter NS&I sent Mr W1 on 21 July 2021 they explained why the two £25 prizes 
were being removed.
Appropriate compensation
Ive noted Mr W1 has claimed for financial losses as a result of losing out on an opportunity 
to invest in a house and buy a car as a result of these delays.
We do generally award 8% interest for the loss of an investment. But, from what I can see, 
Mr W1 was planning to make these purchases in his own name  not on behalf of the 
Estate. So, I dont think its appropriate to award any compensation for financial losses  as 
its not The Estate that has suffered any losses.I can see why Mr W1 would say hes been caused inconvenience across both issues  both 
in terms of delays, frustration caused by a lack of communication, and the inconvenience of 
having to regularly chase up something that should just have been done. I note NS&I have 
already paid £150 for these issues which is likely the amount Id have suggested  if I could 
have awarded money for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman