DRN-4389684
The complaint
Mr S and Ms C complain about how AXA Insurance Plc dealt with a claim for subsidence on 
their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S and Ms C claimed on their home insurance for subsidence at the front of their property. 
AXA reviewed the claim and discovered the cause of the subsidence was due to clay 
shrinkage. To remedy the situation AXA said it needed to remove the boundary hedge, as 
this was causing the clay soil to dry out and shrink. 
Mr S and Ms C and their neighbour agreed to having the boundary hedge removed in order 
to stabilise the property. Mr S and Ms C asked AXA what it would replace the boundary 
hedge with as it meant there was now no boundary between their house and their 
neighbours. AXA explained the policy didnt provide cover to replace the boundary and said 
this would be a cost for Mr S and Ms C to cover. Unhappy with this response, Mr S and Ms 
C complained. 
AXA reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the policy covered loss or damage to 
their property and removal of the hedge was mitigation which AXA would assist with but said 
replacing the hedge was not covered by the policy. Mr S and Ms C didnt agree and referred 
their complaint here, they said their policy didnt say anywhere that this wasnt covered.
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that by 
AXA removing the hedge, Mr S and Ms C werent put back in the position they were before 
the claim, as they now didnt have a boundary between their property and their neighbours. 
She recommended AXA pay for a fence to be installed in replacement of the boundary 
hedge. Our Investigator also recommended AXA pay £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr S and Ms C accepted our investigators outcome, AXA did not. It said it was an accepted 
approach that it didnt need to replace the hedge which it had removed and referred to 
another final decision issued by this service. 
As AXA didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr S and Ms Cs policy say it covers: Loss or damage resulting 
from subsidence or ground heave of the site on which the buildings stand, or landslip.
AXA hasnt disputed that Mr S and Mr Cs property has suffered from subsidence, it also 
hasnt specified whether there is a policy exclusion which relates to this. So, as it appears an 
insured peril has occurred and is accepted by AXA, Ive not considered that further here. 
Furthermore, as AXA hasnt specified which policy term its relying upon to decline paying to 
replace the boundary hedge, Ive looked at whether its acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstance of this complaint. Having done so Im not persuaded it has. I say this because 
the policy defines buildings as: The structure of the home including fixtures and fittings and 
the following if they form part of the property: Walls, gates, fences, hedges, terraces, 
patios, drives, paths, artificial lawns, statues, decking, railings, gazebos, pergolas.
It's accepted that Mr S and Ms C have a subsidence claim for the front of their house, and 
before the claim Mr S and Ms C had a boundary between their property and their 
neighbours. Their boundary hedge has now been removed and so Im satisfied thats a loss 
to Mr S and Ms C, which is covered by the policy. 
To rectify the damage to their house, AXA removed the boundary hedge to ensure the clay 
soil no longer suffers shrinkage. In the circumstances this seems like a fair and reasonable 
solution to the subsidence to Mr S and Ms Cs claim. However, it now means there is no 
boundary between their house and their neighbours. When considering this, and that Mr S 
and Ms C havent been put back in the position they were before the claim, loss of the 
boundary hedge between their property and their neighbours, Im not satisfied AXA has 
acted fairly and reasonably in this case. Im therefore satisfied that our Investigators 
recommendation of paying for a replacement fence is fair and reasonable one, as it puts Mr 
S and Ms C in the position they were before the claim. 
So to be clear, when taking into account the policy terms, Im satisfied the fair and 
reasonable outcome is for AXA to pay to replace the boundary hedge it removed, with a 
fence. It should also pay Mr S and Ms C £150 compensation for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused by it declining to do this. Mr S and Ms C have explained they 
have been concerned there would be no boundary between their property and the 
neighbours, Im satisfied £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
Ive also considered AXAs point about other decisions issued by this service. I would like to 
assure AXA that Ive considered these, and while I have, I also need to consider the fair and 
reasonable answer in the individual circumstances of this case. So, while AXA believes the 
situations are similar, Im satisfied this is the fair and reasonable answer in this particular 
case. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AXA Insurance Plc to pay Mr S and Ms C for a fence to replace the boundary hedge it 
removed. AXA Insurance Plc also needs to pay Mr S and Ms C £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman