DRN-1929943
 
The complaint
Mrs Ds representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited (the business). 
What happened
In 1998, Mrs D was advised to invest £10,000 into an investment bond and contribute to a 
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) pension plan. Mrs D surrendered 
the bond early in October 2001 for £8,935. 
The business upheld the complaint in relation to the FSAVC pension plan, which isnt the 
subject of this compliant, but said that the advice in relation to the bond was suitable given 
Mrs Ds circumstances. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The advice was suitable given Mrs Ds circumstances.
She had investment experience and was generally aware how investments worked. 
She was aware of the risks associated with a unit-linked medium to long term 
investment bond. 
The bond was a lower risk investment compared to some of the products she was 
invested in.  
Given that she was working, married and had no debts, she had capacity to invest in 
the bond, and still had cash available. 
There was nothing to suggest that her circumstances were due to change, apart from 
her children moving out to go to college which was likely to reduce the household 
expenses. 
It was recorded that Mrs Ds ambition was to buy a Mercedes car and go on holidays 
so its likely that she was investing with this in mind. 
 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
made the following key points:
Theres no evidence that Mrs D had fully utilised alternative tax efficient savings 
vehicles that offered greater flexibility. 
Theres no evidence that Mrs Ds attitude to risk being established to ensure that the 
advice given was appropriate. 
Theres no evidence of Mrs D having an adequate deposit-based emergency savings 
of at least three months income.
Theres no evidence of Mrs D being informed of the necessity to maintain an asset 
backed investment for five years - Mrs D maintained the policy for three years only. 
 As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to say 
that the recommendation to invest £10,000 in a unit-linked non-qualifying single premium 
investment bond was unsuitable for Mrs D. 
The CMC has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs D wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On balance Im satisfied the recommendations generally met Mrs Ds need to invest a lump 
sum for capital growth, without being tied into a long-term product. I note it was recorded that 
she wanted to save up for a Mercedes car and to go on holidays. 
Despite what the CMC says, I think its fair to say certain questions were asked of Mrs D to 
arrive at the conclusion that she was willing to take a balanced risk, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that she was risk averse or wasnt willing to take a risk to achieve her objective for 
capital growth. 
At the time she was in her late 40s, working and married with two children. Although her 
husband was also working the recommendation was based on her circumstances as 
opposed to their joint circumstances. I note it wasnt long before her children left for college. 
 
I also note that Mrs D wasnt without financial experience. The business says she held:
 
three small endowment policies. 
£15,000 in a Personal Equity Plan (PEP); 
£3,000 in a Tax Exempt Special Savings Account (TESSA); 
£10,000 in a deposit account 
£10,573 in shares (that she re-invested in the bond)
 So, Mrs D wouldve generally been aware of the risks involved in investments. I note the 
investigator says that she had a tendency to invest in higher risk products, so I dont think 
the advice to invest in something (probably) lower risk, given her age and financial 
circumstances, was wrong.   
On balance Im satisfied that she was keen to invest and thats probably why she re-invested 
the proceeds from a share exchange scheme rather than leave it in a deposit account. I note 
Mrs D still had access to a reasonable amount of cash for emergencies, which in light of her 
£23,000 annual income was roughly four/five times her monthly salary, if not more.  
Given her experience, Im satisfied that Mrs D was generally aware of the risks involved and 
was willing to take a risk in order to achieve capital growth. I also dont think £10,000 meant 
she had invested too much. 
I note that Mrs D had no debts or financial liabilities so was in a good position to invest. Even 
if there were alternative investments available, it doesnt mean that the advice to invest in 
the bond was unsuitable.
It seems she was generally content, at the point of sale, to invest for five years. Its not clear 
why she surrendered her bond after 3 years  Mrs D cant recall the reason why  but it 
certainly wasnt on advice from the business. On balance the early surrender doesnt look 
like it was something that the business (or Mrs D) couldve foreseen in 1998. 
I think its unlikely Mrs D wouldnt have been advised of the consequences of surrendering 
her investment early or that she wouldnt have known given her own investment experience. 
I note the Illustration was based on what she might get back at the end of five years, but no 
guarantees were given. The document also made clear that she might get back less than 
she invested if she cashed in during the early years.  
Taking all the above points into account, Im of the opinion that the recommendation was 
generally suitable for Mrs D. 
I appreciate Mrs D will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11August2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman