DRN-2236303
The complaint
Miss As complaint about Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) relates to an 
incorrectly addressed letter, delay in providing a Customer Reference Number (CRN), and 
delay in responding to her complaints.
What happened
When Miss A turned 18 in August 2019 FASL wrote to her as her junior ISA had been 
transferred into her name. It had previously been held in her father Mr As name. The letter 
omitted her house number from the address line. Concerned that her account had been 
compromised, Mr A contacted FASL who applied enhanced security measures to 
the account, meaning there would be a delay in making withdrawals because further checks 
were to be made. That security was removed from the account on the 6 December. There 
was also a delay in November in providing Miss A with a new CRN.
Mr A made two complaints on behalf of his daughter. FASL recognised that errors had been 
made, apologised. and paid Miss A £50 in respect of the wrongly addressed letter with a 
further £25 for their delay in handling that complaint. And in respect of their failure to send 
out the CRN promptly they paid Miss A £100 and a further £50 for the delay in dealing with 
that complaint. 
Miss A was unhappy with FASLs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought there had poor service by 
FASL and the amount of compensation offered to Miss A wasnt enough. An increase to a 
total of £375 was suggested by the investigator.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 August 2020. I said that I didnt agree 
with the investigator and what FASL had paid Miss A already was sufficient.
Since my provisional decision was issued Mr A has replied indicating he had nothing else to 
add. Miss A has not replied and FASL hasnt supplied any further information. I thank Mr A 
for his response.
As no new information has been provided, I see no reason to change the views I expressed 
in my provisional decision. The contents of which are largely repeated in the reasons for my 
final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accepted facts are that FASL failed to address a letter to Miss A, by omitting the house 
number from the first line of her address. The evidence from the recorded calls shows that 
the letter wrongly addressed to Miss A, was actually delivered intact, since Mr A confirmed it 
was unopened. It follows that there was no breach of confidentiality. Whilst I understand and 
share the concerns Mr A had about the potential for his daughters confidentiality to have 
been breached, the evidence is clear that there has been none. I accept that the wrongly 
addressed letter would have caused both Miss A and her father some concern. But the 
mistake here was confined to this one letter and theres no suggestion there were any issues 
with a third-party accessing information they shouldnt have as a result of this.
It is also accepted that FASL placed a block on Miss As account, and to do so was 
reasonable given the instruction they received from Mr A. But where FASL accept they went 
wrong for a second time, is in not providing the CRN as quickly as they ought. It took until 
the 28 November for FASL to provide the CRN, and only after Mr A had chased the matter 
up. Of concern was the fact the FASL also told Miss A they had sent it when in fact they had 
not, and I think it was reasonable in those circumstances for Mr A and Miss A to wonder 
whether it had been misaddressed again.
I recognise that Miss A wasnt given access to her account for a period of approximately four 
months, and although Mr A asserts that investment opportunities were lost, no details have 
been provided. Her account activity for the five months following her gaining access showed 
her accessing the account infrequently and making no buy or sell transactions. The only 
transaction made was a withdrawal of £20 on the 6 December three times, once on the 22 
April and twice on the 23 April. That indicates that whilst unable to get into her account for 
four months, it was more likely than not that she wouldnt have accessed it frequently 
anyway.
FASL has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it should compensate 
Miss A. So it has already paid Miss A £225 overall. Ive thought about the investigators 
suggested increase, but I dont agree because I think the amount already paid is fair and 
reasonable. And I remain of this opinion, given that neither Mr A on behalf of Miss A nor 
FASL have provided any further information in response to my provisional decision.
I have taken account of the delay in responding to the complaints and the fact that there was 
a repetition, but that has been recognised by the increase in the amount of compensation for 
that element awarded by FASL. I have taken account that there was no actual breach of 
confidentiality, and there is no evidence of any direct financial loss. And whilst I acknowledge 
that Mr A has spent a good deal of his time in pursuing this complaint for his daughter any 
award for the trouble and upset caused needs to be balanced and measured against the ups 
and downs of daily life we all face when dealing with other people, businesses and 
organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times. And I have to take into 
account that it is Miss A and not Mr A who is FASL's customer in the context of this 
complaint, so I can only consider the impact on her.
Putting all of this into the balance I think what FASL paid is fair and reasonable and I do 
think it is enough to put matters right. FASL has already paid Miss A £225 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Financial Administration Services Limited to do 
anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Jonathan WillisOmbudsman