DRN-2312225
The complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of Mrs C. She is is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited 
wont pay the full cost of her drainage repairs following a claim under her Landlord/Property 
owner insurance.
What happened
In December 2019 Mrs Cs tenant of her let property reported back to her that the toilet 
wouldnt flush properly. She contacted Fairmead and it advised her to obtain a report from a 
plumber as to the cause of the damage so it could consider the claim. She asked it for the 
name of its recommended drainage company but it said it needed the report first. Mrs C 
contacted a plumber who advised that it was likely the drain was blocked and she would 
need to get a specialist drain company.
Mrs C contacted Fairmead to advise she had appointed a drain company to carry out a 
report. She sent photos of the trenches in the garden where the pipes were being exposed. 
The drain company went on to carry out renewal of the blocked pipe. It provided an invoice 
to Mrs C and wouldnt issue a report until the invoice was paid. This was for £5,850 plus 
VAT.
Fairmead considered the report from the drain company and accepted the claim under the 
accidental breakage to underground services of the policy. It sent out its contractors to 
assess the work and they estimated that the drain company had charged considerably more 
than their assessment of the value of the work. The drain company was adamant that it had 
charged a reasonable amount. But Fairmead still thought the cost was excessive. It agreed 
to pay £3,400 towards the cost. Mrs C also claimed for the cost of reinstating the front 
doorstep, which had to be drilled through during the repairs, of £864. Fairmead initially said it 
would pay £564, but on review said this was a mistake and offered the full amount claimed, 
together with £50 for the error.
On review by this service our investigator noted that Mrs C hadnt told Fairmead she was 
getting the work done. He thought that it was reasonable for Fairmead to pay what its 
contractors would have charged.   
In response Mr C pointed out that Mrs C had asked several times for Fairmead to give her 
the name of its recommended contractor, and that she had kept Fairmead advised 
throughout as to what work was being done. She had sent photos of the work as it was 
progressing.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mrs C feels that she should receive the full payment for the work to the 
drainage. However, in order for an insurer to establish whether it will cover damage it is 
reasonable to ask for a report first. Normally that would be done by CCTV or other non-
invasive inspection. I understand the pipe was damaged by tree roots which might have 
shown up in such an inspection.
Im aware that drain companies can be pushy and I can see that the company advised Mrs C 
it was going to excavate the pipework, which I understand was buried in solid concrete. And 
that would be the major part of any repairs. Nevertheless Mrs C didnt tell Fairmead she was 
having the entire repairs done and by the time she sent photos to Fairmead the major part of 
the excavation had taken place. Fairmead only expected a report at which point it could then 
have decided to send out its contractors. So it wasnt denying to her the use of its 
contractors  it merely needed to have the damage assessed first to see if it would be 
covered under the insurance.
So I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to offer to pay what it would have paid its 
contractors to carry out the work. Those contractors assessed what work was necessary and 
assessed the breakdown of the work given to them by the drain company. This included the 
drilling through concrete. I think that Fairmeads offer of £3,400, which was about £300 more 
than its contractors had assessed the work was worth, was reasonable.
As for the doorstep, Fairmead has said it was the intention to pay the full amount for this and 
the offer of a lesser amount was an error. It has offered a further £50 as compensation for 
this error. Again I think thats reasonable.
Overall I think that Fairmead has made a reasonable offer to Mrs C. If she wants to accept 
its offer (including the £50 compensation) she should get in touch with Fairmead directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman