DRN-4038424
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund an ATM withdrawal he says didnt 
dispense the cash he requested. 
What happened
On 16 December 2022, Mr H tried to withdraw £500 from a cash machine. He explains that it 
made sounds like it was going to dispense the cash, but then didnt, and he never received 
the money. He subsequently tried to withdraw £10 but this was declined. He tried to 
withdraw another £500, this was also declined. Mr H then transferred £500 to another of his 
banking providers to access the money he needed. 
Mr H raised the issue with Barclays, who raised a chargeback claim, but didnt refund the 
transaction. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr H came to our service. Our Investigator upheld the complaint 
on the basis that Mr Hs version of events appeared most likely and she couldnt rule out that 
the machine wasnt tampered with. She suggested Barclays return the disputed transaction 
plus interest. 
Mr H accepted but Barclays didnt agree. It said in summary; 
the ATM operator has not provided any information about any further claims on the 
same day or same ATM;
the ATM operator has not reported any concerns about ATM tampering;
Mr H raised a previous cash not dispensed claim in 2018;
this service issued a View in the banks favour in a case with similar circumstances;
the ATM was genuinely used more than one minute before the disputed withdrawal 
which contradicts a suggestion that the ATM was tampered with and the operator 
would have informed Barclays of this and likely accepted its refund request. The ATM 
operator confirmed that the withdrawal before and after the disputed withdrawal were 
also completed successfully;
the Journal roll showed that the last genuine use of the ATM ended just over a 
minute earlier and Mr H confirmed he didnt see anyone around the ATM and would 
have likely seen someone tampering with the ATM.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Barclays will appreciate that we deal with 
complaints on their individual merits, so whilst it has referenced a View reached by another 
Investigator on a case it deems to be similar, it is for me to make a decision on the complaint 
before me based on the available evidence.  
In order to hold Mr H liable for this withdrawal, it is fair and reasonable that Barclays show it 
was entitled to debit it from his account. This usually involves evidence such as the ATMs 
electronic records and balancing information, to show whether the withdrawal went through 
and dispensed properly. 
Barclays are able to ask the ATMs owner  a fellow financial business  for this information. 
This is very standard practice in ATM disputes like this one. Barclays has provided some 
evidence from the ATM operator, which includes transactions over a minute earlier and 
seven minutes after Mr Hs transaction and all were deemed successful. It has not provided 
any of the ATM providers commentary or that it requested information like the balancing 
information, whether anything was held in the purge bin or whether it specifically asked 
whether any other disputes were made about that ATM on that particular day. 
In my judgement, the evidence provided is not sufficient to demonstrate that Mr H received 
the £500 cash withdrawal he disputes. I dont find that a cash not dispensed claim being 
made several years earlier is evidence to suggest that Mr H isnt being truthful about his 
account of events. And Ive seen from the statements Barclays provided that Mr H regularly 
makes cash withdrawals from ATM machines without raising concerns about receiving these 
withdrawals. 
I agree with our investigator that Mr Hs conduct after he says the cash was not dispensed is 
in line with the conduct Id expect of an individual that hasnt received the cash they 
requested. On balance, Im not satisfied that Mr H received the £500 he requested. I cannot 
rule out that the cash machine wasnt tampered with or that the cash was simply not 
dispensed. 
I find Mr Hs testimony more persuasive. Mr H has been clear about his account of events 
and maintains the cash was not dispensed, his testimony has been credible and I have no 
good reason to disbelieve him. I do appreciate that Barclays has evidence of the ATM 
providers Journal roll showing Mr Hs transaction being successful, as well as two other 
transactions being successful but this does not on its own, rule out other plausible 
possibilities of the cash not being dispensed (as referenced above). 
I note Mr H felt Barclays could have handled things quicker and obtained relevant evidence - 
such as CCTV footage - rather than requesting for him to do so. But overall, I dont think 
Barclays took long to make its decision and ultimately relied on the information provided by 
the ATM operator. I dont think the evidence Barclays has relied upon outweighs Mr Hs 
testimony. But I also dont think Barclays delayed reaching its own decision and I dont think 
additional compensation is warranted here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
- refund the £500 disputed withdrawal;
- pay 8% simple interest, per year, on the above amount from the date it was debited 
until the date its returned (less any lawfully deductible tax)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman