DRN-3483333
The complaint
Mr V is a sole trader. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted and closed his 
account without notice or explanation, and terminated his Bounce Back Loan facility.
What happened
Mr V opened a business account with HSBC on 1 October 2020. He applied to the bank for 
a Bounce Back Loan a few days later. The application was initially approved, but before the 
funds were drawn down HSBC conducted a review of Mr Vs account and his Bounce Back 
Loan application. It restricted his access to the account, in which around £1,500 was held, 
while it did so. 
Mr Vs access to his account was restored on 25 February 2021.
HSBC decided to close Mr Vs account and confirmed this to him in writing on 9 March 2021. 
The account was closed on 29 March. The bank also decided not to proceed with the 
Bounce Back Loan and emailed Mr V to advise that the agreement had been terminated.
Mr V doesnt think HSBC acted fairly. He believes the bank retrospectively assessed his 
credit rating and decided to withdraw the facilities based on this. And he said the delays in 
the bank reaching a decision had left him unable to apply elsewhere for a Bounce Back Loan 
and meant he incurred additional charges for the bank account.
HSBC says there were no errors in how it handled things. It says it restricted and reviewed 
Mr Vs account to comply with its legal obligations, and that it ended its relationship with 
Mr V in line with the terms and conditions of his accounts. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Vs complaint but didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong. She said, in summary, that:
HSBC had acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when restricting and 
reviewing Mr Vs account. The bank wasnt obliged to explain its reasons in any more 
detail to Mr V, and she was satisfied that it had followed its own procedures 
appropriately.
While the review had taken around four months to complete, shed seen that this was 
a result of the banks ongoing investigation and didnt think it was unreasonable in 
the circumstances.
The decision to close Mr Vs account and terminate the Bounce Back Loan facility 
had been made in line with the applicable terms and conditions.
Mr V didnt accept our investigators view. He queried why HSBC had opened the account 
and let him make a number of transactions initially. He still thought its decision to withdraw 
the facilities was based on issues with his credit file, which he said had been confirmed to 
him by branch staff and which was something the bank ought to have reviewed prior to 
opening his account. And he didnt think it had been fair to suspend the account for several 
months, leaving him unable to use it and incurring additional charges. So he asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. The terms and conditions of 
Mr Vs account allowed HSBC to suspend its services. HSBC has explained that it did so in 
order to comply with its regulatory obligations. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that this was the case. 
I note Mr V was unhappy at the lack of information or explanation he received about the 
review. But HSBC wasnt required to give him notice or its reasons. It also wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require the bank to do so now. 
Following the review, HSBC decided to withdraw its services from Mr V. That was a decision 
it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed HSBC to close Mr Vs account 
immediately in certain circumstances and Im satisfied that it was entitled to do so here 
(albeit that, in the event, the bank closed the account around two weeks after notifying Mr V 
of its decision). 
Again, HSBC isnt required to explain the reasons for its decision to Mr V and I cant fairly 
require that it share any more information on this than it already has. But I would highlight 
that when notifying Mr V of its decision, the bank explained that it had based its decision on 
information received from credit reference and fraud prevention agencies when processing 
his recent application. Ive also seen that HSBC based its decision on information gathered 
during its review rather than on information that was available to it when reviewing Mr Vs 
initial applications for the account or Bounce Back Loan as Mr V has suggested.
HSBCs review also led it to terminate Mr Vs Bounce Back Loan facility. The terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed the bank to cancel the facility in certain circumstances. Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to do so here, in light of the findings of its 
review.
I have some sympathy for Mr Vs argument that it took HSBC too long to complete its review 
and make its decision. It took a little over four months. However, there was no set timescale 
in which the bank was required to complete its review. And even if I accept that it couldve 
been quicker, Ive not seen that Mr V suffered a financial loss as a result of any delay. HSBC 
has shown that no charges were applied to the account over the period in question. And 
while I appreciate what Mr V has said about being unable to apply for a Bounce Back Loan 
elsewhere, I think it is highly unlikely that he wouldve been approved by any other lender  
as they wouldve conducted similar checks to those carried out by HSBC and, in all 
likelihood, reached a similar decision.
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr V as I understand his strength of feeling over how HSBC 
handled things, Im not requiring the bank to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman