DRN-1867014
 
The complaint
Mr T complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Ferratum 
UK Limited. Mr T says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial 
problems.
Background
We now know that Mr T took out 6 loans from Ferratum between May 2017 and March 2018. 
Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Ts loans, based on the information it provided to us. 
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount TermHighest monthly 
repayment
1 19/05/2017 02/06/2017 £150 37 days £167
2 05/06/2017 30/06/2017 £100 37 days £120
3 02/07/2017 28/11/2017 £600 5 months £220
4 22/12/2017 12/01/2018 £200 22 days £234
5 14/01/2018 09/03/2018 £400 4 months £167
6 24/03/2018 06/04/2018 £120 14 days £132
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld, 
as all 6 loans shouldnt have been given to him. 
Ferratum didnt agree, but it otherwise offered to settle the dispute. Mr T didnt agree to the 
offer, so the complaint has come to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ts complaint.
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
T could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Ferratum should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr T could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Ferratum told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr T. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Ferratum should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at 
some point, Ferratum should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Ive applied what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, to all these 6 
loans. However, it seems to me that the financial checks Ferratum carried out from the 
outset returned results that should have immediately raised concerns. The checks appeared 
to show that Mr T was already substantially indebted to other short-term lenders at the time 
and although this type of information isnt always up to date, it should have certainly caused 
Ferratum to investigate further.
Theres no evidence Ferratum did this as it simply embarked on a series of lending which, in 
my view, significantly contributed to the financial hardship Mr T says he endured. Having 
carried out certain checks about a consumers financial affairs, Id expect lenders like 
Ferratum to take some sort of action when those checks throw up potential sustainability 
issues or otherwise show that lending might be a bad idea. That Mr T was also on a low 
income, and therefore vulnerable to financial hardship, is another relevant consideration 
which I dont think Ferratum took account of.
With all this in mind, Im upholding this complaint in full. At the time of the first loan, Mr T was 
indebted to 3 other such lenders. The later loans Ferratum gave him then followed a similar 
pattern, which Ferratums checks had already exposed. It therefore failed in its duty to 
ensure that that any of the 6 loans were sustainably affordable and it appears to have failed 
to take proper notice of information which clearly highlighted that lending to Mr T was a risk.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans 1 - 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges on these from 
the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;remove any negative information about loans 1 - 6 from Mr Ts credit file;
 HM Revenue & Custom requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must give Mr T a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ferratum UK Limited should put things 
right for Mr T as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020. 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman