DRN-3332551
The complaint
Mr F says James Hay Administration Company Ltd, trading as James Hay Partnership 
(JHP), caused a delay in completing the setting up of a third-party (Selftrade) dealing 
account within his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2020, and caused the resulting 
delay in his financial adviser making, on his behalf, specific investments within the dealing 
account. His initial submissions to this service claimed compensation for financial loss 
arising from the delayed investments and, separately, for the trouble, upset and 
inconvenience caused by that and caused by JHPs delay (between June 2020 and May 
2021) in addressing his complaint about the matter. 
JHP says it caused no meaningful delay to the overall process; that it caused no delay 
whatsoever to Mr Fs investments; that the completion delay related only to establishing 
third-party authority for his adviser to deal, on his behalf, in the account; prior to resolving 
that, the account was activated and open for dealing when he deposited funds in it; and it 
had informed him at the outset of the process, through communications it sent to his adviser 
(who managed, on his behalf, the application for the dealing account), how he could deal 
directly in the account. It apologises for the delay in addressing his complaint but contends 
that it has no responsibility for the compensation he claims.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and was not persuaded to uphold it. In the 
main, he found as follows:
He noted the following chronology of key events  the application for the dealing 
account began in early February; on 20 February JHP confirmed to Mr Fs adviser 
that the account had been set up, that it would be activated once funds are deposited 
into it, that Mr F could deal directly within it through JHPs online service and that a 
form for third-party authority had to be completed and executed in order for his 
adviser to have access to the account; on 2 March the dealing account was funded; 
on 1 April JHP wrote to the adviser to reconfirm that the account had been opened; 
on 7 April it says it learnt from Selftrade that the third-party authority form had been 
sent to Selftrade directly and was unsigned; it forwarded the form to Mr F on 16 April 
and received it back on 23 April; it then forwarded the completed and signed form to 
Selftrade on 27 April; Mr Fs adviser chased JHP on 11 May and it (the adviser) 
made the specific investments in the account on 12 May; his adviser complained, on 
his behalf, on 4 June and JHP did not respond until 11 May 2021 (after the matter 
had been referred to us).
The specific investments were made into Aviva, GSK and SSE.
The earliest these investments could have been made was 2 March, when the 
account was funded. Instead they were made on 12 May. Overall, no financial loss 
was caused to Mr F in these investments. Instead, he made a net gain across the 
investments by investing at the prices on 12 May as opposed to the prices on 2 
March. The closing share price level for Aviva on 2 March was 343.20 and on 12 May 
it was cheaper at 245.00; the closing level for GSK on 2 March was 1630.00 and on 
12 May it was more expensive at 1707.00; and the closing level for SSE on 2 March 
was 1525.00 and on 12 May it was cheaper at 1292.00.
Complaint handling is not a regulated activity, so this service cannot address the 
isolated matter of Mr Fs claim for compensation related to JHPs delay in addressing 
his complaint.
In terms of the process for setting up the dealing account and establishing Mr Fs 
advisers authority to deal in it, there is evidence that JHP wrote to the adviser on 20 
February and the letter confirmed the setting up of the account, Mr Fs direct access 
to it and the advisers need for execution of the third-party form; the adviser says it 
did not receive this communication, whilst that is possible it is also the case that JHP 
sent it, so JHP cannot reasonably be responsible for any postal failure thereafter; 
JHP could have acted faster between 7 and 16 April (in terms of forwarding the third-
party authority form to Mr F after Selftrade highlighted the need for its resubmission) 
and between 27 April and 12 May (during which it received the completed form and 
had to be chased, on 11 May, by the adviser); but it did not take an unreasonably 
long period of time to act in each period, and it had already given notice about Mr Fs 
ability to access and deal in the account directly; so overall it did not cause a 
meaningful delay in the matter.
Mr F did not accept this outcome. He said he had discussed the investigators view with his 
adviser and that he accepts that, overall, he has not incurred a financial loss. However, he 
considers that JHPs mishandling of his complaint remains a matter for which he should be 
compensated. He also considered that JHP could have pointed out to him, back in 2020, that 
he had not suffered a financial loss in the matter and that had it done so, and had it 
apologised for the delay,  the matter could have been allowed to rest. Mr F also noted 
that this service ought not to have given JHP additional time to respond to the complaint in 
2021, because it had ignored his complaint since 2020.
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, complaint handling is not a regulated activity. In some cases, 
depending on the facts, it might be considered that a complaint to a firm and the handling (or 
mishandling) of that complaint forms a part of the overall claim (about a regulated activity) 
pursued by the complainant. Where such a claim is upheld, if compensation for trouble, 
upset and/or inconvenience is awarded, that award might cover relevant elements of the 
firms complaint mishandling for this reason. An example might be where mishandling of a 
complaint added to the substantive problem or partly delayed (or obstructed) its resolution. 
In Mr Fs case, the matter he complained about  through his adviser in June 2020  had 
been resolved and concluded (in May 2020) prior to his complaint. I consider the complaint 
to be an isolated matter, and it is one that I do not have the remit to address because this 
service has the power to determine complaints about regulated activities and complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity.
There no longer appears to be a claim for financial loss. The investigator set out his findings 
in this respect and Mr F accepts that, overall, he did not incur a financial loss in the three 
relevant investments (in terms of total purchasing costs between the dates of 2 March and 
12 May). Available evidence is that JHP received the completed application form for the dealing 
account on 14 February, which it forwarded to Selftrade, and by 20 February it had written to 
Mr Fs adviser to confirm that the account was opened and was awaiting funding. I too note 
that his adviser appears to say this communication was not received. Like the investigator, I 
am satisfied with evidence that says it was sent to the adviser, so I do not find any fault with 
JHP in this respect. It is also noteworthy that the adviser appears to have instructed the 
funding of the dealing account that happened on 2 March. This suggests that it was aware 
that the account was opened (and open to funding) and that it received notice of this (if not 
from the communication of 20 February, then through another means) prior to its instruction. 
In any case, JHP did not delay the funding of the account between 20 February and 2 March 
and it does not appear to have caused any earlier delay in the process. In this respect, I 
have also considered information about confusion in early February between Mr Fs 
application for the dealing account in the SIPP and a similar application for his Individual 
Savings Account, but this does not appear to have been caused by JHP. Overall, and in 
addition to the absence of a financial loss to Mr F between 2 March and 12 May, no other 
period appears to be relevant to his claim for financial loss.
The remaining matter to address is the compensation claimed for the trouble and upset 
caused by the process up to when Mr Fs adviser made the investments in the account, and 
with regards to his point about JHPs failure, in 2020, to highlight that he incurred no loss in 
the matter  which (along with an apology) he says could have put the matter to rest.
I echo and endorse the investigators findings that JHP could have conducted itself in a 
quicker fashion during the two periods he identified (as noted above) but that this did not 
amount to a meaningful delay on its part. Ultimately, Mr Fs objective was to make the 
specific investments through the dealing account and any trouble, upset and inconvenience 
he experienced in the matter would have happened in this context. I do not dismiss the 
likelihood that he was troubled by what he probably viewed as a delay (in making these 
investments) at the time, but that does not automatically mean JHP is liable for what he 
experienced. 
As I said above, I am satisfied JHP sent the notice of 20 February to Mr Fs adviser. In 
addition, there is evidence of an email it sent the adviser on 1 April which conveyed broadly 
the same messages as the notice of 20 February. In particular, the email included the 
following  If the client wishes to place trades direct via their Selftrade account, this is 
accessed through James Hay Online and the client must be set up with online access. The 
client can register for this service on our website at www.jameshay.co.uk. There appears to 
be no dispute about the advisers receipt of this email. It clearly confirmed Mr Fs ability to 
make his investments directly  without having to wait for completion of the third-party 
authorisation process. Assuming this email was shared, by his adviser, with him, the 
implication is that he could have made the investments directly at any time from 1 April (and 
over a month before they were made in May). The fact that this was not done was/is not 
JHPs fault, and the same applies if the email of 1 April was not shared with Mr F.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not consider that JHP caused or 
contributed (meaningfully enough to warrant compensation) to any trouble, upset and/or 
inconvenience Mr F experienced in the above matter. With regards to his comments about 
the apology (for the delayed response to his complaint) he says JHP should have given him 
and the absence of a financial loss that he says it should have highlighted to him in 2020, I 
note that it did both within its May 2021 complaint response. Despite that, Mr F continued to 
pursue the complaint. Of course, he was entitled to do so and I do not suggest otherwise. 
However, this affects his present argument that the pursuit could have been avoided  and 
that the matter could have been put to rest  had both been done a year earlier. In any case, I do not consider that this argument adds merit to the complaint. As I have found above, JHP 
did not delay Mr Fs investments, it caused no meaningful delay to the overall process and 
he incurred no net financial loss by making the investments on 12 May 2020  these findings 
address the crux of his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman