DRN-4474794
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc mi-sold him an interest only mortgage. Hes 
also complained about how Barclays has dealt with him since the mortgage term ended. 
Mr Ts complaint has been brought on his behalf by his daughter. But for ease, Ill mainly 
refer to the complaint as having been brought by him within this decision.
What happened
Mr T took an interest only mortgage with Barclays in 2009. The mortgage was set up on an 
interest only basis. Barclays advised Mr T on the suitability of the mortgage. The mortgage 
term ended in early 2021 when the full balance was due to be repaid. The mortgage balance 
remains outstanding at this time. Barclays is now taking legal action to have the mortgage 
balance repaid. 
Mr T lives abroad. But the property on which the mortgage is held is in the UK and Mr Ts 
family live in it. Mr T has complained that the mortgage was mis-sold due to being set up on 
an interest only basis with no realistic way of repaying the balance at the end of the term. He 
says that hes not been able to speak with Barclays about this and its now taking legal 
action which is causing him and his family great distress.
One of our Investigators looked into this complaint. She explained that the complaint point 
about the mortgage being mis-sold had been referred to us too late under our rules. And she 
didnt think that Barclays was acting unreasonably in taking action to have the mortgage 
balance repaid.
Mr T accepted that the complaint about the mortgage being mis-sold had been referred to us 
too late. But he maintained that Barclays hadnt treated him fairly since his mortgage had 
ended in 2021, or since his complaint had been referred to us. Mr T asked for the complaint 
to be considered by an Ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to review and make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are parts of this complaint we can and part of this complaint we cannot consider. Ill 
firstly set out what we cant consider and why. 
Whilst Mr T has reluctantly accepted that the complaint about the mortgage being mis-sold 
was referred to us to late, I have still thought about this. And I agree with our Investigator 
that it wasnt referred to us in time. Our rules require a complaint to be brought to us within 
six years of the event being complained about (in this case the sale of the mortgage) or, if 
later, within three years of the consumer knowing or ought reasonably to know they have 
cause for complaint. 
The mortgage was sold in 2009 and Mr T complained to Barclays in 2021. This is more than 
six years after the mortgage was sold so is out of time on the first part of this rule. Ive 
thought about when Mr T shouldve known he had cause for complaint. He says that he had 
no way of repaying the mortgage. But I think he ought to have reasonably known this at the 
time the mortgage was sold. However, even if he didnt, over the years Barclays has sent 
Mr T annual statements and reminders that the mortgage balance would be due in full in 
2021. Many of these were sent more than three years before the complaint was made. 
Based on this, I think he ought to have reasonably known that he had cause for complaint if 
he had no way of repaying the mortgage and the advice might not have been suitable more 
than three years ago. So, this complaint has been made out of time on the second part of 
this rule as well.
Ive not been made aware of any exceptional circumstances which mean Mr T couldnt 
complaint sooner, so this part of the complaint has been referred too late.
Secondly, Mr T has raised a complaint about being locked out of his account for many years. 
I understand this is being dealt with by our Service as a separate complaint. So, I wont be 
commenting on the outcome of this complaint within this decision.
Mr T has also raised concerns with how Barclays has dealt with him and his daughter since 
the complaint has been with our Service. Before we are able to consider a complaint point, 
Barclays needs to have the chance to respond. So, Mr T would need to raise this with 
Barclays as a new complaint. If Mr T remains unhappy with the response once Barclays has 
looked into this, he will need to bring this to our Service as a new complaint.  
As our Investigator said, we can consider how Barclays has dealt with Mr T since his 
mortgage ended up to the point he referred the complaint to us. I have done so, and I dont 
think Barclays has done anything wrong in this regard. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about this matter, and in summary, Im not persuaded that Mr T has 
done enough himself to try to actively engage with Barclays to arrange repayment of his 
mortgage.
Mr Ts mortgage term ended in January 2021. And to date it remains unpaid. Barclays has 
regularly written to Mr T over the years reminding him that his mortgage would need to be 
repaid in full on this date. I cant see that Mr T has ever got in touch with Barclays himself to 
discuss this, either prior to or after the term ending. 
It seems that Mr Ts daughter has been the person who has mainly been in contact with 
Barclays. But she is not a party to this mortgage, and Mr T has never arranged for her to be 
able to deal with Barclays on his behalf. So, Barclays isnt able to speak with her about the 
matter directly. I can see shes asked Barclays to contact Mr T, and its tried to at times. This 
has proven difficult given Mr Ts job and the fact that he lives in another country. 
However, I think Mr T shouldve taken steps to try to contact Barclays directly himself rather 
than rely on requests from his daughter to Barclays to reach out to him. I understand hes 
been locked out of his account and says this wouldnt have been possible. And, as Ive said, 
this matter is being considered by our service as a separate account. But this doesnt mean 
that Barclays wouldnt have been able to discuss this matter with him had he called it 
directly. Given that Barclays has tried to call Mr T, its clear it wouldve been able to speak to 
him on the phone. And the letters sent to Mr T ask him to contact it to discuss repayment 
proposals. But I cant see that Mr T has ever directly tried to call Barclays himself. Nor has 
he put forward any proposals for how the mortgage will be repaid, either by phone, via his 
daughter, or in writing, which I think he couldve done. Barclays is entitled to expect repayment of the mortgage once the term expires. And it 
expired some time ago. So, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to now take formal 
action to have this mortgage repaid. 
In summary, I dont think Mr T has engaged with Barclays to the manner in which he 
shouldve been considering that his mortgage term ended more than two years ago. Mr T 
has relied on his daughter contacting and dealing with Barclays, despite it not being 
authorised to discuss the account with her. Barclays has started to take legal action now to 
have the mortgage repaid, and Im satisfied its entitled to in the circumstances. Id 
recommend Mr T contact Barclays himself as soon as possible, even if its only to give his 
daughter the authority to deal with Barclays. And proposals for repaying the mortgage will 
need to be provided, otherwise its likely further legal action will commence.
Mr T has also complained about the complaint handling process. However, the handling of a 
complaint is not a regulated activity within the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules. This 
means that its something I dont have the power to consider here. I do note though that the 
complaint has been raised by Mr Ts daughter who, as Ive explained, isnt a party to Mr Ts 
mortgage. Because of this, I can understand why Barclays has not treated this in line with its 
complaints procedure without authority from Mr T.
Lastly, Mr Ts daughter has complained about the impact that this has had on her and her 
family, other than her father. As none of these people are party to this mortgage, they arent 
customers of Barclays in relation to the mortgage complained about. And this means I cant 
consider the impact of Barclays actions on them.
My final decision
I understand Mr T and his daughter both feel very strongly about this matter. But my final 
decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman