DRN-3699938
Complaint
Miss P has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Miss P with a loan for £2,500.00 in July 2018. This loan had an 
APR of 106.8% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,194.16, including interest, fees and charges of £3,694.16, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of just over £172. 
Everyday Lending provided Miss P with a second loan in July 2019. However, as Everyday 
Loans agreed it shouldnt have provided Miss P with loan 2 and it also agreed to put things 
right in the way that we would normally tell a lender to if we were to uphold a complaint, 
weve only looked at whether Everyday Loans acted fairly and reasonably when providing 
loan 1 to Miss P.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Ps complaint and he thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Miss P with her loan. So he thought that Miss Ps complaint should 
be upheld. 
Everyday Loans disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ps complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss P could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Miss P had a significant 
history of high-cost and payday lending. Indeed Miss P had only taken out a guarantor loan 
with a high cost lender a mere matter of weeks before applying for this loan. 
Furthermore, the information Everyday Loans has provided also suggests that Miss P had 
recently renegotiated the terms of a payday loan because she was struggling to repay it. The 
bank statement Everyday Loans obtained also showed that Miss P had returned direct 
debits. Miss P might not have been overdrawn but thats because she only had a basic bank 
account which she wasnt able to have an overdraft on, not because her finances were in 
great shape. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Miss P has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Miss Ps previous credit difficulties 
reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types 
of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments 
from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Miss Ps version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Ps existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss P. 
As Everyday Loans provided Miss P with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss P ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss P lost out because of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss P
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Miss P by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss P paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss P to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Miss Ps credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman