DRN-2159595
The complaint
Mr M and Ms G are unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of their buildings and
contents insurance claim following a flood at their home. Theyre also unhappy with AXAs
offer of settlement for the claim.
What happened
Following a flood at Mr M and Ms Gs home, AXA accepted responsibility for the buildings 
and contents claim. What remains to be decided is how much that claim should be settled for 
and whether Mr M and Ms G are due compensation for the claims handling and the effect 
this has had on them.
Our investigator considered the evidence but didnt think that the complaint should be
upheld. She thought that the offers made by AXA to date were fair and reasonable.
Mr M and Ms G didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision.
In advance of this final decision, I issued a provisional decision to the parties where I said I 
intended to uphold this complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Claims handling
Responsibility for the handling of this claim has been through a few different people. AXA
delegated responsibility for looking after the claim to an external loss adjusting company, C.
And C appointed D, a specialist drying company, to handle the disposal of items that were
beyond economic repair (BER).
A lot of people have been out, viewed and taken photographs of Mr M and Ms Gs home and
their outbuilding, the subject of this claim. This has been going on now for nearly three
years. The original flood was in late 2017. Mr M and Ms G didnt claim immediately, as they
were trying to follow up with the local council who they held responsible for the flood
happening in the first place.
That was unfortunate, as it meant that the water damage to the outbuilding and the contents
in it was probably worse than it might otherwise have been if it had been dealt with earlier.
But I understand why Mr M and Ms G did what they did, it was just that the council wasnt as
helpful as it might have been.
AXA agreed to deal with the claim when it was made several months later. The problem here
has been that C didnt progress the claim as quickly as it could have done. It became a little
obsessed with whether Mr M and Ms G had under-declared the value at risk (VAR) on their
property. The buildings sum insured was clearly okay. But they were concerned that the
VAR for contents had been under-estimated.
Ive been through the extensive evidence with which weve been provided. And I can
appreciate both parties positions here. Mr M and Ms G have a lot of possessions both inside
and outside the main house. The outbuilding was used as storage. And so there were a lot
of their things in there. But Ive not seen any evidence that clearly shows that Mr M and Ms
G underestimated the VAR for their contents. There are allegations that the list provided by
Mr M and Ms G was doctored by C. C also appears to have lost, and then found, a few items
of post that were sent to them.
The evidence isnt enough, Im afraid, to substantiate those allegations. But the handling of
the claim by C on AXAs behalf was clearly not as good as it shouldve been. Mr M and Ms G
were left to do a lot of the legwork themselves in proving their loss. Whilst its usual for a
claimant to have to show the extent of their loss. I think that Mr M and Ms G had done all
they could here. C, however, made it more difficult for them. As Ms G rightly puts it, the
goalposts of what was being required of them were constantly moving. Both C and D had the
opportunity to help Mr M and Ms G properly list their contents, particularly as those BER
items were being removed by D. But they didnt.
So, Mr M and Ms G were of course unable to provide model numbers and details for items
when they were asked for them  as most had already been removed by D as BER. Their
paperwork and receipts were also, I understand, largely stored in the outbuilding and were
damaged in the flood and disposed of afterwards as well.
AXA has accepted that the claim wasnt progressed as quickly as it should have been and
has paid £600 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by those delays.
Its also paid a further £150 for the inconsistency in outcomes across the claim.
But the problems were greater than that. Mr M and Ms Gs contents were left out on their
drive for many months, despite their ongoing requests to have them removed. Mr M has
severe health conditions and the stress has led to an increased incidence of the seizures
from which he suffers. Ms G has also been very stressed by this and says that at times its
taken away her will to live. She thinks her complaints about C werent taken seriously.
Its my finding that the handling of this claim has not been good. Mr M and Ms G have been
subjected to demands for information that they were unable to provide. C waited for many
months during 2018 for Mr M and Ms G to send in a VAR schedule without helping them. It
lost, and then found, items of recorded delivery mail, and didnt chase things up as well as it
should have done. So, its my finding that Mr M and Ms G were put to a significant amount of
unnecessary distress and inconvenience for a claim that shouldnt have been as complicated
as its been made. It should also have been dealt with an awful lot quicker. Ill deal with
compensation for this below.
Contents settlement offer
A lot has been made of whether or not the outbuilding was in fact structurally sound prior to
the flood. Its my finding that, more likely than not, it was. The damage seen to the contents
and the lower portions of the structure is consistent with flood damage. Of course, it wasnt a
new building and the roof has moss on it and some overgrown vegetation. But the state of it
has clearly suffered from not having been dealt with immediately after the flood.
There were significant amounts of Mr M and Ms Gs possessions in the outbuilding. They
have endeavoured to provide a valuation for these, although without full details this has
hampered the task of doing so. AXA has accepted that the items were all damaged in the
flood and that most of them were BER. It has offered to pay for a lot of those items listed on
the spreadsheet in red and green. But has only offered 50% of many of the items in white, as
there is a lack of validation evidence for their value - such as receipts, etc.
The problem here is that AXA, through C and D, had the opportunity to carefully itemise all
these things. But they didnt. For example, DVDs are listed as approximately 1500 to 1700
DVDs. That appears on Ds list of BER items. But given no effort has been made to countthem precisely, or verify whether any were worth more than others, Mr M and Ms G valued
them each at £3 a disc. Now that may well be an overestimate as the market for DVDs is
much less than it used to be. There are specialist services that buy and sell second hand
DVDs, and often they go for only a few pennies each. It is worth noting though, that in one of
its reports, C did say, subject to verification of the number, it didnt think that £3 a disc was
unreasonable.
There were also quite a few pictures, mattresses and various electrical items in the
outbuilding. And it is difficult to put a value on these without better details and a proper
appraisal. But again, neither C nor D helped with assessing that. That said, a lot of the items
may well not have been in the best of condition prior to the flood. So, I also understand
AXAs position in offering a settlement here to take account of the damage for which it isnt
responsible. I just dont think that what it has offered to date is sufficient.
I dont propose to try and put an exact figure on the items in white on the list that havent
been accepted. Instead, I intend to put a global settlement figure on the trouble and upset
that Mr M and Ms G have been caused as well as the outstanding contents claim. I have
noted Mr Ms health condition and the increased incidence of seizures that the stress of this
claim has brought on, as well as the stress caused to Ms G. Ive also taken account of my
finding that C hasnt handled the claim as well as it should have done.
So, I intend to require that AXA pay Mr M and Ms G an additional £5,000 in full and final
settlement of the contents claim to include compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
The calculation of compensation cant be an exact science. But taking into account the
outstanding white listed items, the lack of detail to allow a proper valuation and the clear
distress caused to Mr M and Ms G here, I think this sum amounts to fair compensation.
Buildings settlement offer
A great deal has been said about the state of Mr M and Ms Gs outbuilding prior to and after
the flood. A number of people have inspected it, and each has come to a different
conclusion. Mr M and Ms G would like it demolished and rebuilt. They got a quote for
£18,700 for that. AXA has paid them half of that sum, £9,350, as a settlement offer, given
the building wasnt in an as new condition before the flood, and its concerns that there was
more damage to it than the flood caused.
AXA has recently asked another surveyor, Q, to assess the outbuilding and it thinks that the
building can be repaired for £9,936 plus VAT. That figure is of course very similar to what B
has already paid Mr M and Ms G, less the VAT.
Ive looked at all the reports. And my finding is that the outbuilding can be repaired. It wasnt
in a perfect state before the flood. But Ive found that it was sound and, more importantly,
dry. D stripped out a lot of the interior to aid drying before it found a bees nest. But,
worryingly, Ive noted that in one of Cs reports it said that the partially collapsed ceiling was
evidence that the property wasnt in a good condition before the flood. The surveyor clearly
hadnt taken account of the strip out work that D had started.
So, I think that the most appropriate thing here is for AXA to pay the additional amount over
and above what it has paid to date to meet Qs estimate of the repair costs, including VAT.
So, by my calculation, thats a further £2,573.20, being the VAT of £1,987.20 and the
difference of £586 between what its paid so far and Qs estimate.
I appreciate that Mr M and Ms G want to replace the outbuilding. But here AXAs
responsibility under the policy is limited to providing a repair, if thats possible. Mr M and Ms
G are, I understand, current storing hay in the outbuilding, so it must still be dry. And fixing itwould clearly appear to still be an option. Mr M and Ms G can of course demolish it and 
rebuild if they want to, and the money from AXA can be put toward that if they like.
In reaching my intended decision on this complaint, Ive tried to be pragmatic. Ive
considered everything that Mr M and Ms G have said about the items lost and the service
they received, plus the concerns AXA has had about the VAR declared. My decision, overall, 
should hopefully bring closure to the parties on what has been a long-running saga for
everyone.
Mr M and Ms G responded to say that they had nothing further to add. AXA, for the most 
part, accepted my findings, and it said it had offered to top the buildings claim payment up to 
Qs estimate in any event. But it made a couple of observations that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account the parties responses, I see no reason to change my findings set 
out above, which I adopt in full in this final decision. 
AXA asked that in this decision I clarify a couple of things though. The first is the split 
between compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr M and Ms G and the amount 
Im asking it to pay for the contents claim. I appreciate why AXA would prefer this to be split 
and I note that it accepts that it is very difficult to put an exact figure on the contents claim 
outstanding.
Having considered this, I can clarify that of the £5,000 I have awarded, £1,000 is an 
additional payment, over and above the £750 compensation already paid, for the trouble and 
upset that Mr M and Ms G have been caused by the way this claim was handled on AXAs 
behalf. The remaining £4,000 of the award is full and final settlement of the contents claim.
AXA has also asked me to clarify that VAT will only be payable on the buildings claim award 
if it is in fact incurred by Mr M and Ms G. I have clarified this in my award below. Considering 
this is a tax, AXA need only indemnify and pay Mr M and Ms G for it if they end up incurring 
VAT on the work that they do to the outbuilding. That can of course be the repair or indeed 
the replacement of the relevant outbuilding if that is what they decide to do. So, if the work is 
done, then Mr M and Ms G should send a copy of the invoice to AXA showing the payment 
of VAT, whereupon AXA should reimburse them for any VAT incurred and paid up to 
£1,987.20.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. I require that 
AXA pay Mr M and Ms G the following:
£1,000 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr M and Ms G;
£4,000 in settlement of the contents claim;
£586 in settlement of the buildings claim;
Upon AXA being provided with evidence of payment by Mr M and Ms G, the sum of 
up to £1,987.20 toward any VAT incurred on the repair or replacement of the 
outbuilding which is the subject of this buildings insurance claim.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman