DRN-1968270
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that IG Markets Limited failed to give him enough time and support to take 
advantage of a corporate action on one of his shareholdings.  
What happened
On Friday, 10 May 2019 Mr L was notified by IG that one of his shareholdings was subject to 
a corporate action involving an acquisition by a non-UK company. Shareholders were 
entitled to receive one share in the acquiring company for each existing share they held at 
the time of the acquisition.
IG explained that unfortunately it couldn't offer the non-UK shares because it didn't have an 
appointed agent in the relevant country. So, Mr L would need to sell his shares, or transfer to 
a new broker by Monday, 27 May 2019.
Mr L contacted IG on Monday, 13 May 2019 to seek guidance on how to make the transfer, 
ideally to a new broker that didn't impose a custody charge, as he felt this would be an 
unnecessary cost for a single holding. Over the next few days he instigated a transfer to a 
new broker, but due (at least in part) to an administrative error by that new broker there was 
delay in the process. Ultimately, as a result of this delay, the transfer wasn't completed in 
time and the shares were sold by IG on Wednesday, 29 May 2019.
Mr L complained to IG about the process. He felt that, amongst other things, IG had 
delayed telling him of the corporate action (it had first known on 1 May 2019), had provided a 
very short window of opportunity to then arrange the transfer, had made the deadline a bank 
holiday, and had generally failed to provide the support offered in its initial notification of the 
action and in its company 'mission statement'.
IG didn't accept that it had acted incorrectly and felt the responsibility for the delay sat with 
the new broker. Mr L referred the matter to this service, but our investigator reached a 
similar conclusion to IG. She noted Mr L's series of concerns about IG's behaviour in respect 
of the transfer but didn't feel there was any specific point at which IG had acted incorrectly 
or made an error.
The investigator also pointed out that Mr L had been compensated by the new broker so as 
to put him in the position he'd have been in if the transfer had completed in time. It had also 
paid a sum in respect of the trouble and upset caused. So, she therefore felt that, even if she 
had found IG to have been at fault, she wouldn't have been able to compensate Mr L further.
Mr L didn't accept this. He felt that what he saw as IG's failings had, in and of themselves, 
caused him months of unnecessary worry while he'd waited for the matter to be put right by 
the new broker. In short, if IG had administered the corporate action in a more efficient and 
pro-active manner, the transfer would have completed in time regardless of the new broker's 
error and there'd have been no need for any further actions on his part.As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it's possible to point at each stage of IG's handling of the corporate action process 
and identify ways in which it could have helped Mr L, and maybe other account holders, 
more.
For instance, it might've been possible for it to have communicated the corporate action 
sooner than 10 May 2019, given that it had been aware of it since 1 May 2019. And it seems 
likely too, that it could've given a slightly later deadline for transfer - and not have chosen a 
bank holiday as the cut-off point. It also could've refrained from selling the shares knowing 
that the transfer had been instigated. In general, it could have been more pro-active in 
helping Mr L, acting more in accordance with the offer of assistance made in its initial email 
of 10 May 2019.
But, all that said, I don't think there's any evidence of a clear failing on IG's part (a manifest 
error) that would lead me to conclude that a complaint against IG should be upheld - unlike 
the clear error made by the new broker. 
As a broker IG will be administering multiple corporate actions at any given time and I accept 
there is a limited amount of flexibility it can build into the process - or would want to, given its 
commercial considerations. And I've not seen that it particularly deviated from the general 
practice of brokers in these circumstances, where there are often tight deadlines imposed. 
Ultimately, I think it's a subjective question about the level of service IG provided - could it 
have been better? Most likely, yes, but that doesn't mean that it's done something wrong.
I do understand Mr L's frustration and I should also make clear that my decision not to find 
IG at fault isn't predicated on the fact that he's already been compensated by the other 
broker. Had I felt IG had made an error that had caused a loss or inconvenience to Mr L, 
above and beyond that caused by the other broker's error, I would've directed it to 
compensate him. But as noted, I don't think there was any point at which IG's actions were 
incorrect or unreasonable, or itsservice at such a level that compensation is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman