DRN-3333063
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC contacted her to pay an outstanding balance on her 
loan after she had already settled the account.
What happened
In March 2020, Miss M contacted Lloyds via online banking to request an early settlement 
quote for her loan, which she subsequently paid off. Miss M later began receiving letters 
from Lloyds about a balance of around £360 that was owed. Miss M said she ignored the 
letters at first believing there was an error, but later called Lloyds and found out that she did 
indeed owe this balance.
Miss M complained to Lloyds because she believed the early settlement quote that she 
received was the amount she needed to pay as full and final settlement of her loan. In its 
response, Lloyds explained that Miss Ms usual direct debit payment towards the loan was 
taken just before the early settlement quote was generated  but the direct debit later 
returned unpaid. Lloyds says that because the early settlement quote didnt include the 
amount covered by the direct debit, this balance became due. 
Miss M didnt agree and asked this service to provide its opinion on the matter. One of our 
investigators concluded that Lloyds had acted fairly when it contacted Miss M to pay the 
balance she owes. The investigator pointed out that the direct debit that was attempted 
around the time Miss M thought she settled the loan had failed. So under the loan 
agreement, Miss M still owed this balance. Miss M responded saying the account the direct 
debit was set up from had more than enough funds to both settle the loan and pay the usual 
direct debit amount. But our investigator pointed out that these funds werent available when 
the direct debit was actually processed.
Miss M didnt agree and still feels her settlement of the loan in March 2020 was full and final. 
So the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly. I know Miss M will be disappointed, 
so Ill explain why.
Miss Ms says she was under the impression that the early settlement quote she was given 
was a full a final settlement of the loan. Miss M generated the quote via online banking, so 
Ive considered the literature Lloyds says she wouldve seen at the time. Lloyds provided a 
letter that was sent to Miss M around the time. This sets out the early settlement figure of 
around £16,500 and goes on to explain that the quote doesnt take into account any 
upcoming transactions.
Lloyds also provided an example of the information Miss M wouldve seen when she 
requested the quote online. This isnt an exact copy of what Miss M wouldve seen, but 
Lloyds says what it provided is similar. Again, this sets out that the early settlement quote 
doesnt take into account transactions that may take place after the quote is generated. I 
havent seen anything that suggests the early settlement quote was full and final. 
Looking at the loan statement Lloyds provided, I can see the direct debit came through as 
rejected a few days after Miss M paid off the early settlement amount. And usually, the value 
of any rejected direct debits would return back to Miss Ms loan account. Based on this, Im 
of the view that Lloyds acted fairly when it added the failed direct debit sum back to Miss Ms 
account and asked her to pay this balance, even though she believed shed already paid off 
the loan.
Miss M feels the timing of the direct debit isnt something thats her responsibility and says 
she had more than enough funds available that day, so the direct debit shouldnt have failed. 
Miss M says she wouldve paid any additional amount that was due if Lloyds had asked her 
to at the time. Ive looked through the statements provided by Lloyds for Miss Ms account. I 
can see that Miss M did indeed receive a sum of around £32,000 into her account that day. 
And, as Miss M points out, this was more than enough to settle the loan balance including 
the value of the direct debit. 
However, looking at the statements, it seems the credit to Miss Ms account took place after 
the direct debit came through. And at that time the direct debit was processed, it seems 
Miss Ms account was in overdraft - so the direct debit failed. So, although Miss Ms account 
was later credited with enough funds, the early settlement quote was generated on the basis 
that the direct debit amount had gone through successfully. Its up to Miss M to make sure 
she has enough funds in her account for any direct debits. Lloyds wouldnt have known that 
the direct debit failed until a few days later. So I dont think it treated Miss M unfairly by 
giving her an early settlement quote that didnt include the value of the direct debit at the 
time.
Lloyds says it reversed the penalty and some interest Miss M was charged after the direct 
debit failed  and I can see from the loan statement that this is accurate. I can also see that 
Lloyds has continued to attempt to clear the balance owed but the direct debit has continued 
to fail. This appears to be down to the fact that Miss M cancelled the direct debit 
arrangement. Lloyds has also demonstrated that Miss Ms credit file hasnt been adversely 
affected by the balance thats owed. Miss Ms unhappy that the remaining balance has 
continued to accrue interest. But the terms of Miss Ms loan agreement explain that any 
missed payments will continue to accrue interest. 
It seems to me that Lloyds has done more than it needed to, by reversing some of the 
charges added to Miss Ms remaining balance and by not reporting adverse information 
about the missed payment to credit reference agencies. So Im satisfied that Lloyds has 
acted fairly. 
Ultimately, under the terms of the agreement, Miss M is obliged to repay the loan in line with 
the agreement. Although she took steps to settle the account, this balance is still owed and I 
think Lloyds acted reasonably by asking that she pays what is owed.
In summary, its unfortunate that Miss Ms bank account was in overdraft when the direct 
debit was processed. I know that enough funds credited her account later, but by this point 
the direct debit had already gone through  and later failed. I dont think Lloyds did anything 
wrong when it generated the early settlement quote based on the information it had at the 
time, given it only became aware of the failed direct debit a few days later. I understand 
Miss Ms frustrations as she believed the loan was paid off. But it has since transpired that 
theres a balance that she owes and I think its fair that Lloyds expects her to pay it.I should point out that Lloyds will still be entitled to request payment of the balance Miss M 
owes regardless of whether Miss M accepts or rejects my decision. Miss M should be aware 
that Lloyds may start its formal collections process and report adverse information about the 
balance owed to credit reference agencies 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman