DRN-3752289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC has declined to accept a short 
settlement to close their mortgage account. Mr H has dealt with the complaint throughout, 
with the consent of Mrs H.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Barclays (through its residential lending division, 
Woolwich) on 8 December 2009 after taking advice from their own independent financial 
adviser (IFA). They borrowed £131,000 plus £499 fees, on a capital repayment basis over 
an 11-year term. 
The mortgage also came with a Mortgage Current Account (MCA). The MCA is an overdraft 
facility, which works like this: as capital is repaid off the mortgage, the overdraft limit on the 
MCA increases by the same amount, due to what Barclays calls rebalancing.  This can be 
spent by the borrower, through the mortgage current account.
The overdraft becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage account is 
repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage is repaid 
sooner (for example, on sale or remortgage of the property). 
The MCA operates on an interest-only basis. Interest is currently charged on the overdraft 
balance at Bank of England Base Rate + 4.49%, except where the mortgage is a specific 
offset mortgage, where interest is charged at the offset mortgage rate. (This is not that type 
of mortgage.)
The mortgage term came to an end in December 2020 and the outstanding balance has not 
been repaid. This is made up of about £5,000 on the main mortgage and about £100,000 on 
the MCA.
Mr H complained to Barclays that hed never been told interest would be charged on the 
MCA, and that the mortgage had been mis-sold. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, and 
sent Mr H a final response letter about this in April 2021.
Mr H raised a further complaint in November 2021, saying that Barclays hadnt treated him 
fairly, and offering £67,500 in settlement of the outstanding debt. Barclays issued another 
final response rejecting this offer.
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs H complained to this service about mis-sale of the mortgage, 
that theyd never been told interest would be charged on the MCA, and about Barclays 
refusal to accept a short settlement on the mortgage.
Our investigator thought the only issue we could consider was that Barclays had declined 
the offer of £67,500. She thought the other issues were time-barred, as theyd been raised 
with us more than six months after the final response letter sent in April 2021, there were no 
exceptional circumstances to explain the delay and Barclays didnt consent to us looking at 
those issues. The investigator also didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly in refusing to 
accept £67,500 in settlement of the mortgage.
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, reiterating that the mortgage had 
been mis-sold, he and Mrs H were never told that interest would accrue on the MCA and that 
his offer of £67,500 reflected the amount that had actually been spent on the MCA, without 
interest.
On 12 October 2022 I issued a decision explaining that we could not look at the complaints 
about mis-sale or about interest being charged on the MCA, as theyd been brought out of 
time. This decision is about the part of the complaint we can consider  which is that 
Barclays has acted unfairly by refusing to accept £67,500 in settlement of the outstanding 
balance on the mortgage account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs H want Barclays to accept a reduced amount in 
settlement of their mortgage account, asking the bank to write off about £40,000. Mr Hs 
argument is that he doesnt think he should pay any interest on the MCA, and only wants to 
repay the amount of capital that was spent on the MCA. Mr H therefore thinks its 
unreasonable for Barclays to turn down his offer.
Having looked at the annual mortgage statements, starting with the first statement sent on 
6 October 2010, I note that Barclays explicitly stated in each statement that interest on the 
MCA would be charged at Woolwichs Standard Variable Rate. Mr and Mrs H didnt start to 
use the MCA until 2011, so Im satisfied that, when they did so, they were aware  or ought 
to have been aware  that interest would be applied to any spending on the MCA.
Therefore I am satisfied that interest on the MCA has been legitimately charged in line with 
the contract terms. I havent audited the MCA  thats not a service the Financial 
Ombudsman Service provides. But looking at the statements that were sent to Mr and Mrs H 
for the MCA each month, it doesnt appear to me that there has been an error by Barclays in 
applying interest to the account, and that this appears to be in line with the contract terms.
Although I acknowledge Mr H wants Barclays to accept payment of only the capital he has 
spent, Im satisfied Barclays is also entitled to be paid the interest on this as well. In the 
circumstances, there is no basis on which I can reasonably conclude that Barclays should be 
required to accept £67,500 in settlement of the mortgage account.
It is now almost two years since the mortgage should have been repaid. I know mortgage 
lenders put matters on hold due to the pandemic, in line with the regulators guidance. But 
that hold has now been lifted. The mortgage balance is now overdue. If repayment proposals 
cant be agreed, Barclays will be entitled to pursue recovery action through the courts, as a 
last resort. I would not want Mr and Mrs H to underestimate the seriousness of this.
I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery 
action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them 
to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential for consumers to use 
our service to bring complaints with the intention of having any legal action put on hold, 
thereby obstructing businesses that were trying to take action through the courts to recover 
money legitimately owed by the consumers. I do not wish to alarm Mr and Mrs H, but I would not want them to be under any 
misunderstanding that we would tell Barclays that it must suspend any recovery action in the 
event of any new complaint being raised about the mortgage. It is a matter for a court to 
decide whether it is appropriate to adjourn or suspend any legal action, not this service.
If Mr and Mrs H dont have the resources available to repay the mortgage to Barclays in full 
within the near future, and if they dont want to sell their property to pay off the mortgage, I 
think it might help them to speak to an independent financial adviser about their options. 
There are mortgages available through other providers that Mr and Mrs H might be eligible 
to take out  for example, equity release or a Retirement Interest Only mortgage. Its also 
important that they keep Barclays updated about their repayment proposals, and provide 
evidence of where the funds are coming from to repay the mortgage.
However, for the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Barclays hasnt done anything 
wrong in refusing to accept a short settlement for this mortgage account. I know Mr H will 
probably disagree with my decision, and if, as a last resort, the bank has to take legal action, 
he will be free to raise in court all the arguments hes made here about why he doesnt think 
Barclays should be allowed to charge interest on the MCA. I would strongly suggest that, if 
Mr H decides to raise those arguments in court, that he takes advice first from a solicitor.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman