DRN-4108617
The complaint
Mr M complains that Think Money Limited didnt provide him with the service it should have 
when he wanted to pay money into his account.
What happened
Mr M says he visited the Post Office on several occasions to deposit £1,000 into his Think 
Money account but was unable to do so. He said that because he couldnt deposit his 
money, he lost it. Mr M tried to call Think Money and says he had to wait for an hour before 
he could speak to anyone. 
Think Money issued a final response letter dated 8 December 2021. It said that on 30 
October 2021, Mr M contacted it about being unable to deposit money into his Think Money 
account. It confirmed that there was an issue that prevented Mr M depositing his money and 
it apologised for this. It also accepted that the time Mr M had to wait when he called Think 
Money was too long. Because of these issues it paid Mr M £30 compensation. Think Money 
noted that Mr M had raised another issue about his card being blocked but said this had 
been dealt with separately and not upheld.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Think Moneys response and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He thought that Think Money needed to do more 
in response to Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think that Think Money was responsible for Mr M 
losing the £1,000 but given the inconvenience he had been caused when trying to deposit 
his money on three separate occasions and while waiting for his call to be answered, he 
thought compensation totalling £100 was reasonable. Our investigator didnt think Think 
Money had done anything wrong when it blocked Mr Ms card.
Think Money agreed with our investigators view. Mr M didnt. Mr M thought a higher amount 
of compensation should be paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Think Money has accepted that Mr M wasnt provided with the service he should have been 
when he tried to deposit his money and when he called Think Money. Having looked at the 
information provided I can see that these issues caused Mr M distress and inconvenience 
and I agree that it is fair in this case for compensation to be paid. Our investigator 
recommended that Think Money pay Mr M a total of £100 compensation (£30 has already 
been paid). I think this is reasonable as, while I note the issues Mr M has raised, I cannot 
see that these caused him any direct financial loss, but I do find the inconvenience needs to 
be reflected. And considering the inconvenience caused I think that a total of £100 
compensation is reasonable.
I note Mr Ms comment that he was trying to deposit £1,000 and as he wasnt able to do this, 
he lost the money. I am sorry to hear this, but I do not find that I can hold Think Money liable 
for this loss. I say this because I do not find the loss was attributable to an action by Think 
Money or that Think Money was responsible for what happened to the money after Mr M 
didnt make the deposit.
Mr M also complained that his card was blocked when he tried to buy a train ticket. I can 
appreciate how upsetting this must have been, but Think Money has shown that the 
transaction was flagged and a message sent to Mr M asking him to confirm the transaction. 
As Mr M didnt do this his card remained blocked. The block was removed the following day 
after the transaction had been confirmed. Think Money is required to have security 
measures in place to protect its customers and I cannot say that it was wrong to message 
Mr M about the transaction and then for the card to remain blocked until the transaction had 
been confirmed.
In conclusion, I do not find that Think Money provided the service it should have when Mr M 
tried to deposit money into his account and in regard to the call waiting time. Because of this 
I agree with the recommendation that Mr M is paid a total of £100 compensation. 
Putting things right
Think Money should pay Mr M a further £70 compensation (bringing the total to £100) for the 
issues he experienced when trying to deposit his money and calling Think Money following 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Think Money Limited should take the actions set out above, as it has 
agreed, in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman