DRN-2485603
The complaint
Mr F complains Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with his mini-fleet claim poorly.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr F took out an Aviva mini-fleet policy. In December 2019 one of the vans on 
the policy was stolen and recovered. It was damaged so he claimed on the policy. 
In late December 2020 Aviva said the van was a total loss  based on a valuation of £7,500. 
Mr F felt the valuation was too low. In January 2020 Aviva increased their valuation to 
£9,500. Mr F still wasnt happy with that. In late February 2020 Aviva realised the higher 
valuation meant the van was no longer considered a total loss. It offered to repair the 
vehicle. But it claims Mr F wouldnt allow it to start repairs until it had paid off the finance 
balance for the van as well as covering his loss of earnings. Aviva didnt agree to that, so the 
repairs didnt happen. So Mr F came to this service. 
In May 2020 our Investigator said Avivas second valuation, in January 2020, was fair. But 
he thought it should have realised at that point the vehicle was repairable rather than a total 
loss. He said not doing so until February 2020 caused the van to be out of use for longer 
than necessary. He recommended Aviva pay Mr F £10 per day (£450 in total) for extra costs 
incurred as a result. 
The investigator said Mr F hadnt done enough to show the delay had caused him a loss of 
income. He didnt think it would be reasonable to require Aviva to cover Mr Fs finance for 
the vehicle for any period. And he felt Avivas offer of £75 to recognise delays at the start of 
the claim was fair. Aviva accepted the investigators assessment. But Mr F didnt. So the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
In June 2020 Mr F agreed to Aviva repairing the van. Hes unhappy at the pace and quality 
of the repairs. Aviva didnt agree to those issues being considered as part of this complaint. 
So Mr F will need to make a separate complaint if he wants them looked at by this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F disputed the initial valuation. Aviva increased it. Ive looked at trade guides to consider 
what would be a fair valuation of the van. Ive only been able to find two valuations. Based 
on those Avivas initial value does seem to be low. So it seems it did delay progress by 
incorrectly considering the van a total loss. 
The later valuation, from early January 2020, seems be a fair market value  as defined by 
Mr Js policy. But it took more than a month for Aviva to decide this higher valuation meant 
the van was repairable - rather than being a total loss. I think that also delayed resolution of 
the claim. That was late February 2020. 
Unfortunately, Mr F didnt agree for the van to be repaired until June 2020. He felt Aviva 
should pay off the finance arrangement he had taken out for the purchase of the van before 
it started repairs. Whilst Aviva was responsible for some delay, I cant say it would be fair to 
require it to pay off the finance and repair the van. Mr F could have agreed to the repairs 
starting and still pursued any compensation he felt was due. 
So I cant say Avivas responsible for the claim not progressing between late February and 
June 2020. But its fair for Aviva to take steps to recognise the impact of the delays, up until 
the end of February 2020, it was responsible for.
Mr F feels Aviva caused him to lose income. Hes provided a letter that explains an 
arrangement that earned an income from the van. It was said to be between £200 and £400 
per week. He hasnt provided anything, like accounts or invoices, to support this.  
I havent seen enough for me to think Mr F probably would have earned £200 to £400 per 
week from the van  and that Aviva should cover losses at that level for a period. And even if 
Mr F was earning that much from the van before the theft, I cant be certain that would have 
continued after. The van would have been out of action for a period even if the van had been 
repaired promptly and without issues. The arrangement he had might not have continued. 
So Im not going to require Aviva to cover any loss of income.         
Avivas agreed to pay Mr F £525 in recognition of whats gone wrong. Having considered 
matters up to June 2020, I think thats a fair and reasonable amount.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Aviva Insurance Limited needs to pay Mr F £525. It should do 
this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Fs accepted my final decision. If it pays any later it 
should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final decision to the 
date it makes payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman