DRN-3546600
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he was tricked into sending to a 
fraudster.
What happened
The background to this complaint has been set out at great length by the investigator, so I 
wont repeat it all here. The investigator also produced a table of all the transactions which 
took place from Mr Ws account and has shared it with both parties. Im satisfied that it is an 
accurate list and, for the avoidance of any doubt, where Ive referred to a transaction by a 
particular number, it is the number given to the transaction on that list that Im referring to. 
In summary, Mr W was contacted by someone claiming that he had an old investment, now 
valued at about £33,000, which could be cashed in. But, in order to access the funds, hed 
need to pay a fee. Following the initial contact, between late July 2020 and mid-February 
2021, Mr W made 56 payments to the fraudsters, most were made directly to accounts 
controlled by the fraudsters, but several were first paid into his wifes account. Each time Mr 
W made a payment, the fraudster claimed that more money was needed in order to release 
the funds. In total Mr W lost almost £170,000 to the fraudsters.  
During that period Lloyds spoke to Mr W about the payments on five occasions  24 July 
2020 (payment 1), 31 July 2020 (payment 4), 5 August 2020 (payment 6), 6 August 2020 
(payment 7) and 25 September 2020 (payment 31). On each occasion, after some limited 
questioning by the bank, Mr W said that the payments were for home improvements. 
Letters from Mr W to the fraudsters in November and December of 2020, show that he had 
serious doubts about the continued requests for payment. He also expressed his discomfort 
at having to mislead the bank and explained the significant stress the matter was placing on 
him and his wife.
After becoming increasingly concerned Mr W reported the matter to Lloyds in late March 
2021. It is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to refund victims of APP scams like this one in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. In this case, Lloyds said that one such exception applies  
that Mr W didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the recipient of his funds to be 
legitimate. It did, however, manage to recover £2,232.47 from the firms which received Mr 
Ws money. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators upheld it in part. They 
thought that Lloyds should have done more to protect Mr W from financial harm from fraud 
from payment 12 onwards as, despite the fact he misled the bank, there were numerous 
reasons to be concerned about the activity. They noted what Mr W and his representatives 
had said about a serious medical event that Mr W suffered from in 2019 but didnt think this 
meant he was vulnerable as defined by the CRM Code. They also agreed with Lloyds that 
Mr W hadnt met his requisite level of care under the CRM Code and thought he should 
share liability for what happened. So, they recommended that Lloyds refund 50% of 
payments 12-56, as well as pay £300 in compensation. 
Lloyds said it only agreed in part with the investigators findings. It argued that Mr W was 
confident during the calls and it would have had no reason to question the activity further 
than it did at the stage the investigator suggested. It claimed that there were no payments to 
new beneficiaries between payments 7 and 31, so there would have been no reason for it to 
contact Mr W again during that period. However, it acknowledged that it could have done 
more during the call on 25 September 2020  particularly as Mr W had previously told it that 
the home improvements he was undertaking were nearly complete.
So, it offered to refund 50% of payments 31-56, minus any amounts it had recovered, as well 
as the compensation and interest recommended by the investigator. Mr W rejected the 
banks offer and our investigator reiterated that they believed there should have been 
serious concerns about the activity on Mr Ws account from payment 12 onwards. 
Lloyds maintained its offer and asked for a final decision. In summary, it said:
- It disputed that the fact the payments went to pre-paid card accounts meant they 
were more likely to be fraudulent
- The fact payment 12 left Mr W with virtually a nil balance was not particularly relevant 
as hed made a large payment to his own savings account 
- It did not find it unusual that, during the course of genuine home improvements, 
payments might be made to various different payees 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Mr W is liable for transactions hes carried out himself. 
But, thats not the end of my considerations  Lloyds are signatories to the CRM Code and 
also have a longstanding obligation to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions which might indicate their customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud.
The CRM Code requires a firm to refund customers who are vulnerable to APP scams, 
regardless of whether any exception to reimbursement might otherwise apply. Under the 
CRM Code a customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect 
that Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP 
scam, against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. 
Mr W suffered from a serious medical event, which he says had a significant impact on, 
among other things, his long-term memory. He cites this as a reason why the fraudsters 
were able to convince him that he held (but could not recall) the supposed investment. I 
dont doubt Mr Ws inability to recall specific investments hed held made it easier for the 
fraudster to convince him.  But, having considered the conversations he had with the bank, 
read his hand-written notes of conversations and his letters to the fraudster, I think that, 
though his medical condition likely played a role in what happened, I dont think it meant he 
was unable to protect himself from the scam. He has consistently showed an awareness of 
the risk and, at times, the possibility he was falling victim to a scam. So, I dont think that Mr 
W meets the definition of vulnerable set out in the CRM Code. Ive gone onto consider 
whether Mr W had a reasonable basis for believing that the recipient of his funds was 
legitimate. It is more straightforward to assess that belief in reverse chronological order. By the final 
payments Mr W made he appears to have been motivated by the fear of losing his money 
and desperate hope that the fraudsters were genuine. Its clear in my mind that he did not 
hold a reasonable basis for belief at this point. Its also apparent that being asked to mislead 
the bank caused him significant concern and he felt uncomfortable doing so. That happened 
very early on  in relation to the very first payment he made  and theres no reason to think 
he wouldnt have had those same doubts, though perhaps not to the same extent, at that 
stage. 
And, there were other things to concern him too  hed been contacted out of the blue, he 
couldnt recall (and neither did he have any paperwork in relation to) the alleged original 
investment and most troubling of all, he was asked to make a payment to release it. 
Although a reasonably plausible reason was given for this, I think that Mr W (having had 
some experience of investing) ought to have found this odd.  
There was, along the way, convincing looking paperwork, including identity documents and 
bank statements. I also understand that Mrs W carried out research on the firm the fraudster 
claimed to represent and though nothing particularly reassuring was found, nothing which 
would have confirmed the scam was identified either. I certainly dont doubt how persuasive 
the fraudsters were  dragging Mr W back into the scam whenever his doubts started to 
arise. And yet, I think the premise of the scam, coupled with the fact he was being asked to 
lie to the bank about what was allegedly a completely legitimate investment, ought to have 
caused him significant concern. So, Ive concluded Mr W lacked a reasonable basis for belief 
in making all of the payments.
Ive also thought about Lloyds obligations under the Code as well as what I consider to be 
good industry practice, as well as whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. The CRM Code requires Lloyds to provide an Effective Warning (that is a 
warning that meets certain criteria set out in the Code). More generally Lloyds had an 
obligation to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions in order (among 
other reasons) to try and protect its customer from financial harm from fraud.
In this case, Lloyds did find a number of the transactions which took place on Mr Ws 
account concerning  sufficient to contact him and discuss their purpose prior to the 
payments being released. Theres no dispute that Mr W misled the bank about the purpose 
of the payments. Undoubtedly this made it much more difficult for Lloyds to provide an 
Effective Warning  as required under the Code. It could not, based on the answers Mr W 
gave, identify that the scam he was falling victim to was an advanced fee fraud about a long 
lost investment. It did, over the course of the calls, talk about several other common scams 
and asked some relevant questions in an attempt to rule these out, but it largely had to 
confine its questions to the situation Mr W claimed was happening. 
It also appears that, when instructing Lloyds to make a small number of the later payments 
Mr W was presented with a written warning based on the reason he gave for the payments, 
which he chose as paying an invoice or, on one occasion, something else. Because of 
these choices, he didnt see warnings that were particularly relevant to his circumstances. 
However, in considering this case, Ive taken into account not just the provisions of the CRM 
Code, but also what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ive decided 
that, because of the way Mr W answered the questions, its only fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to be held liable for the loss from the point it was no longer reasonable for it to have 
taken Mr Ws responses at face value, specifically when there was an alarming rapidity of 
payments and significant detriment to his financial position. Like the investigator, I think payment 12 should have been the point when Lloyds asked 
further questions of Mr W. At this point hed sent another £14,000 since the last conversation 
with Lloyds, most of which went to a payee which hadnt been paid previously. I accept that 
his balance was only reduced to less than £1,000 because of a sizeable payment to his own 
savings account (money which would be sent to the fraudsters later), but nonetheless, 
payment 12 would put his account in a position that was unusual and represented a 
significant change to how it had previously operated (having held a balance of close to 
£90,000 throughout the entire previous year).
Had it intervened at payment 12, its likely that Mr W would have given the same answers as 
he had done during the previous conversations  that the money was for home 
improvements. But I think Lloyds should have done more  it had been told during the 
previous conversation that the works were almost complete and yet, by the time of payment 
12, Mr W was attempting to complete a payment which would have brought the total amount 
of the payments since the last intervention to just over £14,000.
Having reviewed the other calls, its also apparent that Mr W had, on the whole, only been 
asked superficial questions about the home improvements he said were being done (and, in 
one case, virtually no questions at all). Lloyds ought, I think, to have asked some simple, 
probing questions to try and ensure that what they were being told was likely to be true. It 
might have questioned the number of different payees, how much the overall work would 
cost and most importantly, whether he intended to make any further payments. 
Its easy to see the importance of the last question  the victim of an advanced fee fraud will 
almost always believe that the payment they are making will be their last. Its the nature of 
the scam to surprise the victim with just one more payment request. So, even taking into 
account the fact Mr W had been given a cover story, I dont see why he wouldnt have 
answered that question honestly (and said that the payment was his last) during any of the 
four conversations that took place prior to the twelfth payment. And there was good reason 
for Lloyds to have asked that question (and others) as they were speaking to him for the 
fourth time in just a couple of weeks about a seemingly unending series of transactions.
So, I think Lloyds did miss an opportunity here. Its possible that, had any of the 
conversations that took place prior to payment 12 involved better questioning, the scam 
would have been prevented at an earlier point. But, I think that by payment 12, there ought 
to have been sufficient concern to override any reasonable reassurance the bank could have 
taken from the previous conversations.
In summary, I think Lloyds should have asked better questions of Mr W when it spoke to him 
on each of the four occasions prior to payment 12, including whether he planned to make 
any further payments. Had it done so, coupled with the increasingly concerning activity, it 
would have had serious concerns when the pattern of payments continued. And, had it 
asked further questions of Mr W when payment 12 was attempted, I dont think he would 
have been able to give compelling answers. I also dont think it would have been 
unreasonable for Lloyds to ask for proof of the work being undertaken or to have done 
simple checks into the limited companies he was apparently paying  most of which seemed 
to have no obvious link to home improvements at all and had accounts at the same pre-paid 
card provider. Regardless of whether pre-paid accounts are more likely to be used by 
fraudsters, it would have surely struck the bank as odd that the numerous payees Mr W 
paid, all seemed to have accounts with the same, relatively small, payment service provider. 
I dont think, on balance, that Mr W would have been able to provide further evidence and I 
think those simple checks would have caused even more concern. Had Lloyds taken this action, I think it would have been clear that Mr W was falling victim to 
a scam and the true circumstances surrounding the payments may have been revealed. 
Even if they were not, I think there ought to have been sufficient concern here for Lloyds to 
refuse to make further payments until they were satisfied of those circumstances. In either 
case, I think its more likely than not that further loss to Mr W would have been prevented.  
But, as Ive already concluded that Mr W didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in making 
the payments, its clear he had a role to play in what happened. As such, I think there should 
be a 50% deduction from the amount Lloyds pays him. 
 
Lloyds have already offered £300 compensation in line with the investigators 
recommendation. As both sides have agreed to this amount, I dont need to consider it 
further.  
Im satisfied with the attempts Lloyds made to try and recover Mr Ws funds. It contacted the 
firms which received Mr Ws money once it was made aware of the scam (though this was 
several months after the majority of the payments) and was able to recover a small sum, 
which was returned to Mr W.
 
Putting things right
Lloyds should calculate the refund to Mr W as follows:
- The sum total of payments 12 to 56 (including those payments made to Mrs W, 
before being sent to the fraudster)
- Minus the difference between the amount sent to Mrs W and the amount she sent to 
the fraudsters - £2,205
- Minus the total credits from the fraudsters and reversed payments during that period 
- £7,671
- Minus the amount recovered - £2,232.47 
This will give Lloyds Mr Ws total loss for payments 12 to 56. It should then pay Mr W 50% of 
that figure.
 
In relation to interest, theres no suggestion that Mr W intended to spend or use the majority 
of the lost funds. Prior to the scam this money had been in his current account for some time 
(an account which does not pay interest on balances over £5,000). During the scam, Mr W 
moved some of this money from his current account to his savings account, before gradually 
paying it back to his current account. 
Strictly speaking I think that interest on the majority of Mr Ws own money should be paid at 
the current account rate. But, taking into account that some of that money was being used 
for everyday spending, Lloyds have already agreed to the investigators recommendation 
that interest should be paid at the savings account rate on transactions coming from Mr Ws 
own money that it has agreed to refund and considering what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case, I think interest should be paid at Mr Ws savings account rate on 
payments 12 to 34 (the money that appears to have come from Mr Ws savings).
After his savings were depleted, he turned to a variety of other sources to fund the payments 
 credit cards, personal loans, mortgage advances and the sale of assets. There appears to 
be a mix of interest rates incurred on the borrowing and it would also be difficult, if not 
impossible, to establish the exact cost to Mr W of being without 50% of these funds since the 
scam. So, taking that into account and in the interests of being pragmatic, I think that 8% simple interest per annum should be paid on the refund of the later payments (payments 35-
56).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr W:
- 50% of the loss from (and including) payments 12 to 56, using the calculation set out 
above
- Simple interest per annum at Mr Ws saving account rate for payments 12 to 34, from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement 
- 8% simple interest per annum on payments 35-56, from the date of each payment to 
the date of settlement
- £300 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman