DRN-2190318
The complaint
Mrs H complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) 
unreasonably switched her pension savings from a with profits fund to a cash fund as she 
approached her selected retirement date. She also complains that Prudential failed to 
adhere to its offer to provide her with free financial advice to allow those pension savings to 
be switched back into a more suitable investment fund.
What happened
Mrs H has made a separate complaint about information she was given about the 
investment returns that would be paid from the cash fund. I will be issuing a separate final 
decision in relation to those matters so wont deal with them in this decision.
Mrs H has held pension savings with Prudential arising from a previous employment since 
1994. Those pension savings were invested in a with profits fund. When Mrs H originally 
opened the pension plan she told Prudential she intended to retire at age 65. In 1996 
Prudential agreed to alter Mrs Hs retirement date to age 60.
Mrs H turned 60 in August 2019. The terms and conditions of her pension plan provided that 
Prudential would change the investment of her pension savings into a cash fund one month 
before her selected retirement date, unless Mrs H notified it to the contrary. Prudential wrote 
to Mrs H on 14 June, ten weeks before her selected retirement date, to warn her of the 
upcoming change. Mrs H didnt respond to that letter although she accepts that she received 
it. Her pension savings were moved into a cash fund in July 2019.
Mrs H got in touch with Prudential in early August 2019. She told the firm that she was 
considering deferring her retirement for five years. But by that time Mrs Hs pension savings 
had been transferred into the cash fund. So Mrs H asked Prudential if they could be returned 
back to the fund in which they were originally invested. Prudential advised that this was not 
possible, but did explain that Mrs H could choose an alternative investment fund if she 
wanted. Prudential agreed to send Mrs H information about the alternative fund choices and 
details of how she could take her pension benefits if she did in fact want to do so.
It appears that information wasnt successfully sent, so Mrs H called again later in the month 
to chase it. And on that call she also asked to be sent projections of her expected pension 
benefits. Following that call, the original information requested was sent to Mrs H, but not the 
projections. They werent sent until Mrs H made her complaint to Prudential the following 
month.
Mrs H was concerned that her pension savings were no longer benefitting from any 
investment growth so she started to consider changing the way in which they were invested. 
But she was uncomfortable making that decision alone. Prudential made her aware of its 
financial planning team and offered to provide her with an initial free consultation. There 
appear to have been some delays in setting up that meeting. But ultimately Mrs H was told 
that she would need to pay a fee for any advice she was given.
Mrs H chose not to pay for any advice. Given that she was unwilling to reinvest her pension 
savings without advice, and that those savings werent currently benefitting from any 
investment growth, she reluctantly chose to take her pension benefits. 
Prudential dealt with these aspects of Mrs Hs complaint via two final response letters. The 
first letter dealt with the switch of the pension savings to the cash fund, and the information 
Mrs H had requested to be sent in August. Prudential didnt accept it had been wrong to 
switch the pension savings to the cash fund but accepted that its customer service in August 
had fallen short of what it would expect. It paid Mrs H £100 for the trouble and upset shed 
been caused.
Prudentials second response dealt with what had happened during the time Mrs H was 
discussing whether she could receive any advice about reinvesting her pension savings. 
Whilst Prudential didnt find that it had done anything  wrong it accepted that its customer 
service had again fallen short  it hadnt called Mrs H back when it had promised, and its call 
wait times were lengthy. So it paid Mrs H a further £125 for the trouble and upset shed been 
caused.
Mrs H didnt agree with Prudentials responses. So she brought her complaint to this 
Service. Her complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Overall he didnt 
think Prudential had done anything wrong with regards to the transfer of the pension savings 
to the cash fund or what it told Mrs H about the advice it could give her. And he thought that 
the £225 Prudential had paid Mrs H for its customer service failings was a fair offer. So he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs H and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to 
help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
There are a number of different parts to Mrs Hs complaint. Although they are, to a degree, 
interrelated, I think it is appropriate that I should look at each of them in turn.
The move of the pension savings into the cash fund
Mrs Hs pension savings were in the form of a defined contribution scheme. That is, her 
benefits at retirement werent guaranteed and were entirely reliant on the value of her 
pension savings at the date she chose to retire. There was a significant risk that any market 
fluctuations shortly before her chosen retirement date might have a serious and adverse 
effect on her future pension income. So, in line with many similar pension schemes, the 
terms and conditions of her pension required Prudential to move her pension savings into a 
significantly less volatile and less risky cash fund a month before her selected retirement 
date.I can see that Prudential wrote to Mrs H around 10 weeks before that retirement date to 
warn her of the impending switch in her investments. It gave her the opportunity to get in 
touch if she didnt want the switch to take place. And it warned Mrs H that once the switch 
had been completed, it couldnt be reversed. Mrs H accepts that she received that letter, but 
failed to take any action as a result.
I accept what Mrs H says about that letter not providing her with much information about 
what the switch to the cash fund meant  and in particular that her pension savings might not 
benefit from as much (or any) investment growth. But I dont think that means she shouldnt 
have got in touch with Prudential before the switch took place to ask for more information.
So I dont think that Prudential did anything wrong in moving Mrs Hs pension savings from 
the with-profits fund into the cash fund.
Was free financial advice offered?
After Mrs Hs pension savings were transferred into the cash fund she began to discuss with 
Prudential whether it would be possible to defer her retirement date. And in order to improve 
the investment returns on her pension savings she asked if it would be possible to return her 
pension savings to the with profits fund in which they were previously invested. 
Given the medium to long term nature of a with profits investment Prudential required there 
to be at least three years before the specified retirement date for pension savings to be 
placed in that fund. It says that even had Mrs H deferred her retirement date that wouldnt 
have altered the contractual retirement date on her pension. So I dont think Prudential acted 
unreasonably in telling Mrs H that she would need to choose an alternative investment fund 
if she wanted to move her savings from the cash fund.
I can see, although there was a delay, that Prudential sent Mrs H details of the funds that 
were available to use to invest her pension savings. But I understand that Mrs H was 
concerned that she didnt have sufficient experience to make an investment decision. That is 
a position in which many consumers find themselves and one of the functions provided by a 
financial advisor. But generally that advice isnt free  and Mrs H was concerned about the 
impact that paying for advice of that nature would have on her pension savings.
I have listened carefully to some of the calls that Mrs H had with Prudential. In particular she 
had a long call in early October with a couple of members of Prudentials team. The call was 
originally set up to explain Mrs Hs options about taking her pension benefits. But on that call 
it became clear that Mrs H was considering leaving her pension savings invested, but had 
concerns about choosing the new fund into which they could be placed. So at the conclusion 
of that call Mrs H was referred to Prudentials in house financial planning team to see 
whether she might want to take some investment advice.
Mrs H was told that the initial consultation would be free of charge. But she wasnt given any 
expectation on that call that should she decide to take advice from Prudential that would also 
be free of charge. Specifically she was told that the initial call would provide an opportunity 
to discuss how the advice might be charged for and at what rates. I appreciate that there 
were some delays in setting up that call and I will address that later in this decision.
Unfortunately Prudential doesnt record the calls made with its financial planners. So 
I cannot be certain how the discussion Mrs H held with that team progressed. But from the 
file note taken at the time it appears that she understood charges would be levied for advice 
and that she had decided not to proceed. And it appears that shortly after that meeting 
Mrs H decided to take her pension benefits.So I cannot conclude, on the basis of the evidence I have seen, that Prudential gave any 
offer of free advice to Mrs H. She was told that she was able to decide for herself how her 
pension savings were reinvested, or that she could use a Prudential, or independent, 
financial advisor. So I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong here either.
Did Prudential provide an acceptable level of customer service?
Prudential has already told Mrs H that it failed to meet the levels of customer service that it 
would expect to offer. And I would agree with that assessment. I can see that on a number of 
occasions Mrs H needed to chase Prudential for information that it had agreed to post to her. 
And it seems that she has needed to make a number of calls when follow up calls from 
Prudential were not received as agreed. I can understand how frustrating that additional 
work would have been for Mrs H when she was trying to deal with the complex situation of 
planning how and when to take her retirement benefits.
In relation to its customer service failings Prudential has already paid Mrs H £225. Ive 
considered that payment carefully, against the backdrop of the trouble and upset that was 
caused to Mrs H. Having done so I dont consider a greater payment would be warranted 
here, and so I am persuaded that the payment Prudential made to Mrs H was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
So, in summary, I dont think that Prudential acted unfairly in moving Mrs Hs pension 
savings into the cash fund. Nor do I think Prudential gave Mrs H any offer of free advice 
relating to the reinvestment of those savings. I think the payment that Prudential made to 
Mrs H to reflect the trouble and upset shed been caused by its customer service failings was 
fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman