DRN-3430735
The complaint
Mr M (on behalf of the estate of Ms M) is complaining that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) wouldnt accept a Power of Attorney (PoA) from Northern Ireland to allow Mr M to 
operate Ms Ms accounts.
What happened
Mr M was granted PoA for his mother, Ms Ms, financial affairs when she became unwell. 
Ms M lived in Northern Ireland and the PoA was set up there. Ms Ms bank accounts were 
also held in Northern Ireland.
On the advice of an RBS adviser, Mr M opened two accounts for Ms M at his local branch of 
RBS in Scotland using the PoA. He transferred some money over from her other accounts. 
But when he tried to access the accounts, RBS said they couldnt accept the PoA because it 
was set up in Northern Ireland.
Mr M was able to arrange for the money to be transferred back. He says he asked for the 
accounts to be closed, but RBS asked for Ms Ms permission to arrange this  even though 
she wasnt able to look after her own affairs at the time. 
Ms M sadly passed away in November 2019, but the accounts remained open until 7 
October 2020. Mr M says he was receiving information about the accounts from RBS during 
this time. 
Mr M complained to RBS about what had happened. RBS sent Mr M their final response on 
8 October 2020. They said, in summary, that Ms Ms accounts had been opened under UK 
Law, but the PoA had been drawn up under Northern Irish Law, so they couldnt accept it. 
They said they should have noticed this before the accounts were opened. They paid £50 to 
Mr M to recognise theyd made a mistake.
Mr M didnt agree with RBS. He says, in summary, the explanation RBS gave is incorrect, 
because Northern Ireland is part of the UK. He thinks RBSs process is discriminatory, and 
hed like RBS to change their policy, and accept PoAs set up in Northern Ireland from now 
on.
RBS have now offered Mr M another £150 to settle the complaint. Our investigator thought 
this offer was fair. But Mr M decided not to accept the offer. So the complaints now been 
passed to me for review and a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that RBS have already made a fair offer to resolve this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Its our role to resolve individual complaints. We are not the regulator, and we cant direct a 
business to change their policies or procedures. This is a matter for their own judgement. 
Ive seen RBSs internal guidance, which says that PoAs drawn up in Northern Ireland cant 
be accepted for use on bank accounts in England, Wales or Scotland. So Im satisfied this is 
indeed RBSs general policy, and theyve not made a mistake by telling Mr M they couldnt 
accept the PoA.
Mr M says he believes RBS are discriminating against customers from Northern Ireland by 
not accepting PoAs set up there for bank accounts in other parts of the UK. I can understand 
why he feels this way. But I cant make a legal finding about whether discrimination has 
taken place  that would be for a court to decide. I can only consider whether RBS have 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
RBS recognised they made a mistake when they accepted the PoA to open the accounts for 
Ms M. Theyve apologised for this and paid £50 compensation. And theyve now offered to 
pay another £150. 
I can fully understand how frustrating this experience must have been, especially as it came 
at an already difficult time for Mr M and his family. But taking into account the impact RBSs 
initial mistake in accepting the PoA and subsequent delay in closing the accounts had on Ms 
M, I think total compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay the estate of Ms M 
£150, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
the estate of Ms M, to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman