DRN-2555962
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited suspended his credit card account and then 
closed it down.
What happened
Mr M raised a fraud claim with vanquish on 29 June 2020. This was his sixth fraud claim on 
the credit card account. Vanquis blocked the account to prevent further misuse and then 
investigated the disputed transaction. It refunded the money to the account but didnt lift the 
block. And it decided it would then terminate the agreement and close the account as it felt 
there was too high a risk of fraud.
Mr M wasnt happy with that decision. He said he didnt have a bank account  only a Post 
Office one  and used his Vanquis card to pay his bills. Vanquis maintained its position. It 
said Mr M should be able to pay his bills via his Post Office account and that he ought to be 
able to open a bank account if he wished to. It offered him £35 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr M brough his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Vanquis answer. One of 
our investigators looked into what had happened and felt Vanquis had acted fairly and 
reasonably. Mr M disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but Im not upholding his complaint. I can understand why he 
would like to keep his Vanquis account open and usable. But I cant see that Vanquis has 
acted unfairly. It is able to choose who it accepts as a customer, just as Mr M is able to 
choose if he doesnt wish to have an account with a particular provider. 
Vanquis closed Mr Ms account because of the repeated claims of fraud on his account. I 
believe that was fair and reasonable. Mr M had raised six fraud claims in a relatively short 
period of time. So it seems quite clear that his account was at high risk of fraud. Vanquis had 
reimbursed Mr M on each occasion but understandably didnt want to be exposed to further 
risk. And so it relied on the account terms and conditions to close the account.
Section B19 of Mr Ms agreement confirms that Vanquis may end the agreement at any time 
by giving not less than two months notice. I can see Vanquis did give that notice.
It is true that Mr M was unable to use the account any further, even within that two month 
period, because of the blocks that had been applied. But I believe that was a fair and 
reasonable course of action for Vanquis, given the apparent fraud risk on the account. And 
so I dont find its acted unfairly in either closing the account or maintaining blocks on it. 
I can appreciate Mr M may have had further inconvenience in paying his bills after the 
account suspension and closure. But it is the case that he did have other banking facilities 
and the ability to apply for a new current account. Vanquis wasnt obliged to keep his 
account open. 
I can see Vanquis did offer Mr M £35 as a gesture of goodwill and he declined to accept this. 
I dont believe theres any requirement for Vanquis to pay Mr M any form of compensation as 
I cant see its done anything wrong. If it wishes to pay Mr M the £35 now it may choose to 
do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman