DRN-2777744
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked a payment and closed 
its account. M asks that Barclays provides a proper explanation for its actions and reopen its 
account.
M is represented by its director Mr B. 
What happened
M had several accounts with Barclays. In August 2020, Barclays reviewed Ms accounts and 
following this it decided to close Ms accounts. Barclays wrote to Mr B giving him 60 days 
notice to make alternative banking arrangements for his business. 
On 24 September 2020, Barclays blocked an international payment of just over £30,000, M 
was expecting into its account. This prompted Barclays to ask Mr B what the payment was 
for, as part of its compliance with its legal and regulatory obligations. Mr B told Barclays that 
the payment was for goods hed sold to a customer. But said he couldnt provide more 
information as he was bound by a non-disclosure agreement with his customer. Barclays 
completed its checks regarding the payment and released the money to M on 28 September 
2020.
Mr B complained to Barclays about the blocked payment and closure of Ms accounts. He 
explained he was having trouble opening another account for M due to the Covid pandemic 
in the UK at the time and nature of Ms business. He said he wouldnt be able to pay staff, 
couldnt pay in a HMRC cheque hed received, and because of the banks actions M would 
go out of business. 
Mr B asked Barclays to review it decision to close Ms accounts and for an extension beyond 
the 60 days notice. Barclays said it wasnt willing to change it decision to close Ms accounts 
and had complied with the terms of the accounts. However, it agreed to extend Ms notice 
period until 31 December 2020 to allow Mr B more time to arrange a new bank account for 
his business. Mr B was unhappy with this response. He says he hasnt done anything wrong 
and pointed out that M has been a loyal customer of the bank for more than thirty years. He 
said he suspects that someone whod caused him a good deal of problems in his personal 
and professional life in the past has bribed Barclays to close Ms accounts.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked the payment and closed Ms accounts. She said theyd acted in line 
with their legal and regulatory obligations. And had treated M fairly when it decided to close 
its accounts. 
Mr B disagreed. He wants the bank to provide a proper explanation for why it no longer 
wants M as a customer. He says Barclays have continued to provide services to other 
businesses in his industry and he hasnt done anything to warrant the bank closing Ms 
accounts. So, it must have been wrongly influenced by the person whod caused him trouble 
in the past.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr B has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about Ms 
complaint. I appreciate that Mr B is upset that Barclays blocked a payment and closed Ms 
accounts. I can also understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the 
banks actions made it difficult for him to manage Ms finances including making deposits 
and paying staff. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has 
done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered all of Mr Bs submissions regarding his complaint, but Ill 
concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think it is the right outcome.
 
Ill deal first with the banks decision to block the payment made into Ms account in 
September 2020. As the investigator has already explained, Barclays has extensive legal 
and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to 
customers, including accounts held by businesses. And to fulfil these obligations they may 
need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for information about 
payments  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The terms of Ms accounts 
also permit Barclays to block a payment and ask for information. 
Ive looked at all the evidence provided, and Im satisfied that the bank was complying with 
its obligations when it blocked the payment and asked Mr B for information. I note too that 
Barclays released the payment quickly, on 28 September 2020, (which included a weekend, 
so it was two working days). So, whilst I appreciate M was caused inconvenience, I cant say 
Barclays treated M unfairly when it blocked the payment. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Ms accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing M with banking facilities was reached legitimately.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclays gave M 60 days notice of its intention to close its accounts. Ive seen a copy of the 
letter it sent to M on 10 August 2020, letting Mr B know Ms accounts would close on 12 
October 2020. So, it was entitled to close the accounts as it has already done. 
Mr B wants Barclays to provide a proper explanation why it no longer wants M as a 
customer. But Barclays isnt obliged to provide him with this information, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr B this information
Mr B has suggested that Barclays has been unduly influenced by an individual who, based 
on what Mr B has told us, seems to have an axe to grind with him. Mr B has gone as far as 
suggesting this individual has bribed the bank to close Ms accounts. This is a very serious 
allegation to make. And I want to assure Mr B that Ive not seen any evidence to support his suspicions or that Barclays has acted underhandedly. I think that would be a hard conclusion 
to reach on the facts of this case. It would be contradicted by the fact that Barclays had 
agreed to give M an extension to the notice period of two months lasting until 31 December 
2020  essentially giving M twice as long to make alternative banking arrangements. This 
suggests Barclays were acting in good faith and doing what it could to help keep Mr Bs 
business afloat. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr B feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays have acted unreasonably and 
treated M unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman