DRN-2261131
The complaint
Mrs H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt pay a switching incentive 
after she moved her current account. 
What happened
On 9 September 2019 Mrs H opened a current account with RBS with the expectation that, if 
she met the qualifying criteria, she would receive a £150 switching incentive. 
On 17 October 2019 Mrs H opened a joint account with her husband. 
On 7 February 2020 RBS paid a switching incentive to the joint account. Mrs H went on to 
complain as she didnt receive the incentive for her sole account. RBS didnt agree an error 
had been made and said that the switching incentive could only be paid to a customer once. 
RBS confirmed the incentive had been applied to the joint account. 
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought RBS had dealt with Mrs Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. On Mrs Hs behalf, Mr H asked to appeal. He said that despite switching two 
accounts, only one incentive was received by Mrs H. As Mrs H didnt accept the 
investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has complained that RBS didnt pay the incentive for her sole account switch despite 
the fact she met the qualifying criteria. RBS doesnt dispute that Mrs H would have qualified 
for the switching incentive if she had only moved her sole account over. However, RBS has 
provided the switching incentive terms. The terms say that customers can only benefit from 
the offer once, even if more than one account is opened. RBS has paid one switching 
incentive but didnt pay it into Mrs Hs sole account. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr H questioned why Mrs Hs sole account hadnt 
received the switch incentive. I take Mr Hs point, but if RBS had paid Mrs Hs sole account 
the incentive, no incentive would have been paid into the joint account. As Ive said above, 
the offer terms are clear and say customers can only benefit from the incentive once. Mr H 
also said that Mrs H had arguably lost out on half the incentive because it was paid to a joint 
account. But how funds held within a joint account are divided is a matter for the account 
holders to decide, not RBS. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but I havent been persuaded to uphold her complaint. Mrs H 
would only ever have qualified for once switching incentive and as that was paid to the new 
joint account, the sole account didnt qualify. I havent found that Mrs H has been financially 
disadvantaged by RBS actions and Im satisfied it has dealt with this complaint fairly. As a 
result, Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman