DRN-2271475
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about what happened when they paid a large sum of money in
euros into their account with Barclays Bank UK PLC. They said the rate they received was
nowhere near what they were expecting, so they lost a lot of money.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a large sum in euros they needed to transfer to the UK. Previously
theyve used a dedicated foreign exchange and transfer service. They got a quote from that
service this time too, but they also asked Barclays what rate it would use. It said 1.1673
euros to the pound. The dedicated transfer service was offering the same rate, but said it
would also charge £400 in commission. Barclays said its fee was only £6. So Mr and Mrs W
asked Barclays to arrange the transfer.
When the transfer was done, they got £1,515.22 less than they were expecting. The rate
they had been quoted wasnt used by Barclays. The reference rate it used then was 1.1695,
but the rate it used for the exchange was 1.1873. The lower rate was then available with the
dedicated transfer service. So Mr and Mrs W wanted the difference back. They said that a
payment of £1,000 would be fair.
Barclays said that the rate it gives is only ever indicative, it isnt guaranteed. It didnt think it
had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that the rate quoted
by Barclays was only ever indicative, so it was clear it wasnt necessarily going to be the real
rate used. And Mr and Mrs W didnt actually make their transfer until a week after the quote
was given. So the rate was likely to have changed. And Barclays is entitled to set its own
rate, this is set out in the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws account.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They said that what they think happened is that the branch staff
at Barclays were given the reference rate from the international team, not the rate it was
using. So they thought that Barclays had made a mistake, and misled them. Our investigator
checked, and Barclays said it did think that what it had quoted to the couple was probably
the reference rate, but our investigator didnt change her mind. She said that rates still arent
guaranteed, and the transfer didnt happen until a week later.
Mr and Mrs W said that they had watched the exchange rates while they were arranging for
the money to be paid to Barclays, and it stayed at 1.16. So they thought that a much better
rate was achievable at the time they made their transfer. They wanted their case to be
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Barclays has been clear that it only gave Mr and Mrs W an indicative rate, that rate 
wasnt guaranteed. But as I understand it, Mr and Mrs W were making an informed 
comparison between Barclays and another transfer service. I dont think they were 
expecting that they would get exactly the rate Barclays had quoted a week earlier. I 
think they were using the rate Barclays gave as an indication of how close Barclays 
rate would be to the exchange rates they could see online.
They thought Barclays was tracking those online rates very closely indeed. And thats
because thats what Barclays told them.
It wasnt. It applies a margin to foreign exchange transactions, which, as Mr and Mrs 
W now know, can make a sizeable difference on a large transfer like this.
Barclays is allowed to do that. Its terms set out it may apply a margin. Thats not 
inherently unfair or unreasonable.
But what Barclays did here was to give a reference rate (with no margin) as an 
indication of how an exchange will be done. I dont think that was deliberately 
intended to mislead Mr and Mrs M, but it had that effect. Barclays then did the actual 
exchange on a very different basis to that Mr and Mrs M were expecting, applying a 
not insignificant margin.
I think that the result of this was unfair and unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs M got £88,435.95 on an exchange using Barclays exchange rate. If the
reference rate had been used, they wouldve got £89, 951.96. They have, quite  
reasonably in my view, said that they wouldve been able to achieve an exchange at 
the reference rate elsewhere, but to do that, they wouldve had to pay £400 in fees. 
So they have suggested a settlement which rounds down the difference to £1,000. I 
think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, and thats what I 
currently propose to award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides accepted my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay Mr and Mrs W £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman