DRN-2821156
The complaint
The executor of the late Mrs Hs estate has complained about a claim made on Mrs Hs 
home insurance policy with Ageas Insurance Limited. The executor considers there was a 
series of unacceptable delays in conducting investigations, carrying out mitigation work and 
producing a schedule of repairs. She considers the cash settlement offer made in lieu of 
repairs is inadequate because Ageas doesnt consider the property needs underpinning. 
What happened
  Mrs H took out a home insurance policy, which Ageas underwrote, in 2016. 
Following Mrs Hs death, a valuation was completed on her property for the purpose of 
probate. This highlighted some cracking to the fabric of the building and the executor made a 
claim on Mrs Hs policy in November 2017.
Shortly thereafter the executor provided Ageas with a copy of a report she had 
commissioned from a local surveyor. This detailed that the main cause of the cracking was 
believed to be as a result of foundation movement, possibly aggravated by defective and 
leaking underground drains, and may have been adversely affected by root damage. It 
recommended that investigations be undertaken into the ground conditions and drainage 
system to be certain of the cause of the damage.
Ageas appointed a firm of loss adjusters to assess the damage. The loss adjuster visited the 
property in early January 2018. The loss adjusters agreed that site investigations needed to 
be undertaken and commissioned them a few days later. 
The drainage and site investigations were arranged for February and by 24 March 2018 the 
loss adjusters had determined that the cause of damage was vegetative induced clay 
shrinkage which was being exacerbated by leaking drains softening the soils locally. It 
commissioned an arboricultural report to establish what vegetation needed to be removed 
and drainage repairs were scheduled. Level monitoring of the property was also started. 
Unfortunately, the drain repairs werent done in May 2018 when they were scheduled, and it 
was determined that a new drainage survey needed to be done as the repair plan didnt 
include some damage the contractors saw on site.
The executor started to have concerns about the claim after this and expressed concern 
about whether the investigations had been thorough enough to establish a cause of damage. 
She was also unclear as to the plan of action to move the claim forward. The loss adjusters 
discussed the executors concerns with her and decided to delay the arboricultural report 
while it monitored the property further. It also appears to have commissioned an analysis of 
the roots that had been found near the property during the site investigations.
The new drainage survey was completed on 1 June 2018. The root analysis was also 
received in the middle of June 2018. The vegetation that needed to be removed was 
identified and an arboricultural report was commissioned again and it was also asked to 
quote for the works it determined needed to be done. This report was produced on 1 August 
2018.
By October 2018 no mitigation works had been completed and the executor reported that 
damage had continued to get worse. So much so that shed had to arrange repairs to an 
external door that could no longer be closed. 
The vegetation was removed in November 2018. Around the same time temporary repairs 
had to be done to ease a door and make the property watertight. The drainage repairs were 
completed on 14 December 2018. The loss adjusters decided in January 2019 to have two 
further bi-monthly monitoring readings taken to ensure the property was stable. 
In January 2019 the executor asked that the repairs to the rainwater gullies be looked at by 
the loss adjusters. This was because she had concerns that the work hadnt been done to a 
good standard and the condition some gullies had been left in might cause further problems 
in the property. The loss adjusters sent out the contractors that had done the drainage works 
to look at the executors concerns. It said the repairs were adequate and it wasnt 
responsible for the things she was concerned about. However, the loss adjusters also said 
they would get their subsidence specialist to look at the photographs. There is no record on 
its file of the outcome of that review.
The final monitoring reading was taken in May 2019 and the loss adjuster determined in 
June 2019 that the property was stable. As such, the repairs could be started. It asked the 
executor for the excess toward the end of June 2019. There then appears to have been 
some discussion between the loss adjusters and the executor, the outcome of which was 
that the executor asked for a figure for a cash settlement, in the event she decided to take 
that option. 
The loss adjuster looked into the matter of a cash settlement, but it was not until toward the 
end of September 2019 that any conclusions were reached. Unfortunately, this assessment 
highlighted that further investigations needed to be done into the cause of the sunken raised 
patio at the back of the property and the structure of the side extension. It was decided 
another visit to the property was needed. This was arranged for the middle of October 2019. 
It was decided at the site visit in October 2019 that there were problems with the structure of 
the side extension that werent as a result of the subsidence movement. These problems 
would need to be rectified when subsidence repairs were done. As such, it was decided that 
Ageas would cash settle for the repairs to the side extension, which the executor could use 
when repairing the structure as a whole. It was also confirmed that the damage had 
increased in scale since the previous contractor visit and so a new schedule of work had to 
be drawn up. 
The new schedule of works was completed by the end of October 2019, but there were 
technical issues which meant that it wasnt accessible through the correct system at the loss 
adjusters. This wasnt resolved for some time and the schedule of works wasnt approved by 
Ageas until the beginning of 2020.
The executor complained in November 2019 about the time the claim was taking. The loss 
adjuster explained in December 2019 about the problem with the schedule of works and that 
it had asked for the matter to be resolved as a matter of urgency. It also said that the repairs 
would start early in the new year. 
In January 2020 the executor raised concerns about the stability of the property  she was 
convinced the property was still moving. She was concerned that this would mean that the 
repairs being done to the attached property would fail. She said she didnt think the 
investigations had been thorough enough. It was agreed that the executor would arrange for the property to be inspected and provide her own report. Ageas confirmed that if the report 
made a difference to the handling of the claim it would reimburse the costs. 
Ageas responded to the executors complaint in a final response letter dated 14 January 
2020. It confirmed that it was cash settling the damage to the conservatory because there 
was damage that wasnt related to the subsidence claim, which would need to be remedied 
alongside the subsidence damage. As it wasnt liable for the non-subsidence damage, it 
considered it was more appropriate for it to cash settle this part of the claim and the executor 
could have the subsidence damage fixed when the other issues were dealt with. It said it 
upheld the complaint, it but didnt explain why. 
The executor wasnt happy with Ageass response to the complaint or its comments on her 
engineers report. As such, she referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators confirmed that wed only be able to consider the complaint about issues up to 
the date of Ageas final response letter in January 2020.
The investigator asked some further questions of Ageas and proposed to uphold the 
complaint in part. She concluded that the offer to do further monitoring of the property, with a 
decision about whether it needed to be underpinned, to be made after that, was reasonable. 
If the executor was unhappy with the decision about repairs made after the monitoring had 
taken place, those concerns should be raised with Ageas as a new complaint.  In relation to 
the delays in the claim handling, she concluded there was over a year of avoidable delays 
and recommended Ageas pay the estate £500 compensation. 
Neither party accepted the investigators conclusions. The executor made comment about 
the current state of the claim and highlighted the original timescales shed been given when 
the claim was assessed at the beginning of 2019. Ageas didnt think it was responsible for 
delays and highlighted some points where it said the executor had caused the delays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The executor considers that the claim took longer than it should, but Ageas doesnt consider 
it did. It has also commented that the executor caused delays because she didnt accept that 
the property was stable; she thought it was still moving. I am aware that Ageas had further 
monitoring completed following it answering this complaint. I am also aware that there have 
been further developments in the claim and the executor has made another complaint. 
However, I am only considering the original complaint, which Ageas answered in January 
2020. 
That said, given that the situation has evolved since this complaint was referred to this 
service, I wont comment on the proposed repairs as any comment would no longer be 
relevant. What I would say is that in light of how the claim has evolved, Ageas should look at 
the matter of the maintenance costs of the property when the claim is resolved.
I have considered all the events that happened up to January 2020, along with the loss 
adjusters comments about the progress of the claim made in response to the investigators 
opinion. I am satisfied that there were significant delays in the handling of this claim. 
The claim was made at the end of 2017 and it appears to have moved on reasonably well 
until the spring of 2018. At this point the loss adjusters had concluded what the causes of the 
movement were  leaking drains and vegetative induced clay shrinkage. Ageas approved the mitigation works in the middle of April 2018; these being repairing the drains and 
removing some vegetation in the rear garden of the property.
However, it was a further two and a half months before the arboricultural report, detailing 
what vegetation needed to be removed was produced. It was then a further four months 
before the vegetation was removed. That is over seven months after Ageas agreed for these 
works to be done.   
In relation to the drainage repairs, these were scheduled for the middle of May 2018, around 
a month after Ageas approved them. That wouldnt have been an unreasonable period for 
these works to take, because contractors needed to be arranged. However, it came to light 
that the first drainage survey that had been done was inadequate. Another assessment had 
to be done and it was not until December 2018 that this resulted in repairs. 
Neither area of mitigation should have taken the time it did and it is clear that there were 
failings on Ageas and its loss adjusters part that caused significant delays. I am satisfied 
these issues caused around six months of unnecessary delays in 2018.
Once the mitigation works were done, the property then had monitoring done until the spring 
of 2019. Whilst this period of time may have looked like a delay to the executor, it was 
necessary to determine whether the mitigation works had worked. I havent seen the 
monitoring report for that period, but the loss adjusters file indicates it thought the property 
was stable at the end of that period. Given that it is fairly standard for monitoring to happen 
to ensure stability, so that an insurer knows a property can be effectively repaired, I dont 
consider this period to have been a delay. 
That said, monitoring for a short period over the winter, when dealing with a vegetative clay 
shrinkage claim, would have limited benefit. Not only would it be the wettest time of the year, 
but any vegetation affecting the property would be in its dormant season and so would be 
taking up the least amount of moisture it would over the entire year. 
However, I note that when the loss adjuster started looking into the executors query about 
the possibility of a cash settlement in July 2019, it decided more investigation needed to be 
done. The area involved was the raised rear patio and the single storey extension. There is 
no evidence in the loss adjusters file that it had become aware of new damage that needed 
investigating, and so I can only conclude these were investigations that could, and should, 
have been carried out following the initial site visit in January 2018.  It was not until the site 
visit in mid-October 2019 that the loss adjusters reached any conclusions from the further 
assessments. This is a further three months of delay. 
There were then delays from the end of October until early in January 2020 in forwarding the 
schedule of works to Ageas for approval. This approval was granted around the same time 
as Ageas responded to the complaint. Again, this represents a two-month delay.
Overall, I consider there was around a year of delays caused by Ageas and their 
representatives between the start of the claim in November 2017 and January 2020. Its also 
clear that the initial investigations were inadequate. In addition, had the monitoring been 
completed for a longer period, it may have become evident at an earlier stage that the 
property wasnt stable as was later discovered. However, Ageas did correctly offer further 
monitoring in early 2020, and this enabled the claim to move on. I think this was the right 
thing for Ageas to have done in the circumstances.
I have seen the notes of the contact the executor had with Ageas and it is clear that she 
wasnt satisfied with the service Ageas was providing and she had concerns about the 
direction the claim was moving in. Ageas has commented that an estate cant receive compensation. That is not the case. It is correct that I cant award compensation for any 
upset the executor might feel about the situation, as the estate cant feel upset. However, I 
can make a compensation award for any inconvenience poor handling of a claim causes the 
estate. In this case because of the delays in 2018 and 2019. That is what I intend to do here. 
Our investigator considered a sum of £500 was appropriate and I agree that is the 
appropriate amount of compensation in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay the 
estate of Mrs H £500 for the inconvenience it was caused during 2018 and 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of 
Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman