DRN-2331542
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In June 1991 Mrs J filled in a dual credit card application and Barclaycard issued her with 
two credit cards.
Im concerned only with the PPI she took out about approximately 13 years later on one of 
those cards as Barclaycard has already settled her other complaints about PPI sold when 
she opened her card accounts. 
This policy covered Mrs J against accident, sickness and unemployment . 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mrs J disagreed with this view and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman to 
make a final decision. 
Mrs J mainly said that she was unaware that she had PPI, she never received any advice 
about it and she wouldnt have taken out the policy over the phone without receiving full 
details  she said shes never had any written documentation for the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account when deciding Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs J is certain that she wouldnt have consented to taking out this PPI  and shes sure she 
was never aware of having it. But what Mrs J says isnt enough on its own for me to be able 
to uphold this complaint. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
From what we know about these types of sales, where the PPI was sold after the credit card, 
its likely that it was sold over the phone. And this fits with what Barclays told us about the 
sale. 
It says that PPI wouldve been discussed with Mrs J during a phone call on 23 August 2004. 
Theres no call recording of the phone call when Mrs J was sold this PPI. So I cant know 
exactly what was said. But I wouldnt expect Barclaycard to have kept phone recordings from 
2004. So this isnt a reason for me to uphold Mrs Js complaint.  
Barclays has provided call scripts which it says its adviser wouldve followed when speaking 
with Mrs J on the phone. Although I cant be sure it was followed exactly, I've no reason to 
think that Barclays wouldnt have followed its usual sales process when speaking to Mrs J. 
So I think its likely that Barclays wouldve asked Mrs J during that conversation if she 
wanted PPI  given that Mrs J didnt have PPI on her card at the time and it was something 
Barclays offered to sell to its credit card customers. 
Barclays shouldve made it clear that the PPI was optional. Even if the script wasnt followed 
word for word when Barclays described PPI to Mrs J during the phone call, I think its likely 
that she wouldve understood it was optional. I say this because Mrs J had already been 
using her card for a number of years without PPI. So shed have been aware that it was up 
to her to say if she wanted to add it to this card account. 
And I think it likely that the PPI was probably added to her card when she chose to take it out 
during the phone call after Barclays explained the benefits it offered. 
I can completely understand why Mrs J doesnt remember this so many years later. But 
Mrs J wouldve been able to see the PPI when it appeared on her Barclaycard statements. 
So, if she hadnt asked for it, or she didn't want it, I think its likely that Mrs J wouldve 
questioned Barclays about the PPI when it first appeared on her monthly statements. I've 
seen nothing to suggest that Mrs J took this up with Barclays before she made this 
complaint. 
On balance, I think Mrs J chose to have PPI, knowing it was optional.  
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mrs J. So it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that the PPI was suitable for Mrs Js circumstances. It also had to give clear enough 
information to Mrs J so she could decide for herself whether or not she wanted it. And if that 
didnt happen, I need to decide if this makes any overall difference to the outcome of this 
complaint.
Mrs J was eligible for the PPI.
She wasnt affected by any of the main things that mightve made it more difficult for her to 
make a successful claim, for example, unusual employment circumstances or a pre-existing 
medical condition.
Mrs J told us she wouldve received sick pay for at least 6 months but less than 12 months. 
But the policy couldve paid out a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per accident and 
sickness claim. So the PPI provided better protection than she couldve relied on getting 
through her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs J with a 
useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs J lost her job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed.
I dont know if Mrs J wouldve always had savings to rely on if she wasnt able to work. The 
policy wouldve cleared her credit card balance if shed claimed for the full 12 months. Taking into account everything Mrs J has told us about her circumstances at the time, I think 
PPI offered her useful benefits and the policy was suitable for Mrs J. 
 
I dont know if Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay 
out if Mrs J made a claim. But even if she hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would 
actually cost on a month to month basis, Mrs J chose to take out the policy when she didnt 
have to  so she seems to have wanted it. The policy appears to have been affordable for 
her when she took it out  and she couldve cancelled it at any time if her circumstances 
changed or she didnt want to keep paying for it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Js comments, including what shes said about the way other 
claims have been dealt with. But Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular 
case and what happened on other cases doesnt change my conclusion here.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered her, I think it unlikely Mrs J wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed still 
have taken out the policy.
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything Mrs J has said, including the 
comments made in response to our adjudicators view. Mrs J mentioned that a PPI policy 
had ended without her knowledge. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold this mis-sale 
complaint.  
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs J about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
What Barclays needs to do
Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays Bank UK PLC should also 
pay back to Mrs J any extra interest she paid because of that. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay back to Mrs J the extra she paid each month 
because the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of 
PPI. Barclays Bank UK PLC should also pay Mrs J 8%* simple interest on each 
payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs J can claim back the tax 
if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium (and if it has done this already, then it 
doesnt need to do anything more). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman