DRN-3274748
The complaint
Ms M complained that MBNA Limited lent irresponsibly when providing her with a credit card 
account.
What happened
Ms M applied online for an MBNA credit card in August 2006. Her application showed she 
was earning £9,268 a year before tax. MBNA provided the card with a limit of £3,700. 
In 2021 Ms M complained to MBNA that it had lent to her irresponsibly. She said the credit 
was unaffordable for her because of other credit she had at the time and that MBNA would 
have realised this had it carried out proper checks and asked for proof of her income and 
expenses. 
MBNA responded to say its decision to lend to Ms M was appropriate based on the 
information shed provided, and on the checks carried out by external credit reference 
agencies it had instructed at the time. MBNA said it had lent in line with its internal policy and 
it didnt uphold her complaint.
Unhappy with MBNAs response, Ms M complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. They believed MBNA shouldnt have 
offered Ms M the credit card because it didnt carry out proper checks regarding her ability to 
sustainably repay the credit and, if it had, MBNA would have discovered the lending was 
unaffordable for her. The investigator said that, to put things right for Ms M, MBNA should 
refund the interest, charges and fees applied to the card from when it started and add 8% 
simple interest a year. They asked MBNA to remove any adverse information recorded on 
Ms Ms credit file in relation to the credit.   
Ms M accepted the investigators findings. But MBNA didnt, saying it had followed all 
applicable regulations and relied on the best data available to it to decide whether the 
lending was affordable for Ms M. As a result, the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Ms Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if MBNA treated Ms M 
fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the credit card. Bearing in mind the time of 
the lending and the industry codes of practice in pace at the time the most pertinent of these 
include:
1) Did MBNA complete a reasonable assessment of whether Ms M would be able to 
repay the credit advanced? 
2) If not, what would a reasonable assessment have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did MBNA make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did MBNA act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
Did MBNA complete a reasonable assessment of whether Ms M would be able to repay the 
credit advanced?
As our investigator explained to MBNA, it wasnt required to follow the provisions set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) in lending to Ms M 
in 2006. Thats because those provisions didnt come into effect until several years after 
Ms M applied for the credit card.  
Nevertheless, in line with established good industry practice at the time  such as the 
Banking Code jointly published by the British Bankers Association, the Association for 
Payment Clearing Services and the Building Societies Association and which I understand 
MBNA was a subscriber to  MBNA was still required to reasonably assess whether Ms M 
could afford to repay the credit being offered. 
 
The specific checks MBNA needed to carry out werent set out, but there were a number of 
factors it might want to have taken into account in line with good industry practice. Amongst 
other things, these included considering matter such as income and expenditure, how the 
borrower handled their finances in the past, information from credit reference agencies etc. 
There wasnt an obligation to take all factors into account. But I think what this meant in 
practice was that the scope and extent of MBNAs checks needed to reflect the nature of the 
lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest rate and the 
monthly and total amounts repayable.  
Above all, the checks MBNA ought to have carried out as part of its assessment needed to 
enable it to feel that Ms M would be able to repay any credit advanced. 
I think theres a reasonable expectation that a lender would need to do more before it could 
feel that someone on a low income  such as Ms M here  could repay any credit advanced. 
This would reflect that it could be more difficult for her to meet the credit card repayments 
with a low income. 
MBNA would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts she had to repay, as it 
would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on her income. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether MBNA completed a reasonable 
assessment such that it could feel Ms M would be able to repay her credit card.
In summary then, the circumstances of the credit card application are as follows:
Ms M was applying for the credit card which had an annual percentage rate (APR) that 
MBNA hasnt been able to confirm despite our request.
Ms M was recorded by MBNA as having a gross yearly income of £9,268 when the credit 
card was taken out. The initial credit limit of £3,700 was relatively high when compared with Ms Ms stated 
earnings. And this is even without including any interest that would be due if the full 
amount of the credit limit was used.
When MBNA assessed Ms Ms application in 2006 it used information provided by her as 
well as through checking some of her credit details via a credit reference agency. MBNA 
said the checks showed no evidence of over-indebtedness, and that there was enough 
information to demonstrate to it that a credit limit of £3,700 was affordable for her. 
Im not clear as to how MBNA could adequately determine whether Ms M would be able to 
repay the borrowing when it seems there was no assessment made of her overall outgoings. 
Ms Ms income was relatively low and shes told us she was working part-time, which I find 
plausible given her income. The credit limit offered by MBNA alone represented almost 40% 
of her yearly earnings before tax  and this would be nearer 50% given the likely credit card 
APR. On top of that, the checks MBNA carried out showed she already had a credit card 
with a limit of £6,000 and another with a limit of £1,000, with the balances totalling £2,290 at 
that time. Ms M also had an additional credit facility with a balance of £144. 
Despite that, it seems Ms Ms application was accepted automatically and without further 
checks being carried out. At that stage, MBNA hadnt looked into her living expenses or how 
these impacted on her in relation to the affordability of the credit card shed applied for. 
Given the credit limit represented a considerable amount for Ms M, Im satisfied it should 
have carried out further checks before offering the credit to her, even setting aside the issue 
of whether she had any other living costs. 
I think this should have put MBNA on notice that further information ought to have been 
sought before a reasonable conclusion on whether Ms M could afford to repay this credit 
card was reached. 
As Ive already alluded to, MBNAs internal lending policy isnt a determining factor in this 
case. The question is more one of whether it acted in accordance with industry codes of 
practice at the time. Bearing in mind the above, I dont think that MBNA did enough to 
reasonably assess whether it felt Ms M could afford her credit card. I dont think that MBNA 
did enough such that it could reasonably conclude this. 
What would a reasonable assessment have shown at the time?
I think MBNA should have ensured that the scope and extent of its assessment was adapted 
to the circumstances of its offer to Ms M. A credit limit of £3,700 represented a relatively 
substantial extra financial burden in addition to her existing commitments. Given this and the 
information MBNA had about Ms M further checks would, in my opinion, have needed to 
verify her expenditure. These would have been in addition to the checks it carried out and 
establish that she was able to afford the credit. 
One of the difficulties given the length of time since the credit card was offered is 
understanding what a reasonable assessment might have shown if MBNA had carried one 
out. Our investigator has asked Ms M for what information she can provide from the time but 
there are still gaps in whats available.
It could potentially be problematic to assess whether Ms Ms lost out in this case as MBNA 
hasnt, in my opinion, carried out a reasonable assessment in line with the industry codes in 
place at the time. And its also potentially difficult as Ms M hasnt been able to provide a great deal of information herself. But that doesnt necessarily mean that Ms M hasnt lost out 
as a result of MBNA providing her with the credit card, or that Im not able to determine 
whether she was likely to have been able to repay the borrowing on the credit card.
I say this because the credit card was offered around 16 years ago. And I dont think, given 
the length of time thats passed since then, that its necessarily surprising or unreasonable 
that Ms M hasnt been able to provide lots of information from that time. And the reality is 
that, if MBNA had carried out a reasonable assessment of her ability to repay the borrowing, 
then Ms M wouldnt need to be asked to provide that information now.
That said, from the information Ms M has provided I can see that the balance on her credit 
card carrying a limit of £1,000 was steadily increasing in the lead up to her MBNA 
application. For example, her statements show she owed that lender just over £600 in 
February 2006, but that this had risen to more than £800 by June 2006. Ive no reason to 
think the same pattern didnt apply to the other credit card she held, which had a limit of 
£6,000. Although the information relating to that card isnt complete, I can see she owed 
around £1,600 by August 2006.  
So, in total Ms M owed more than £2,000 on her credit cards and her balances were 
probably increasing. That was before adding the additional credit MBNA agreed to provide to 
her.
I believe such levels of debt, when taking account of Ms Ms stated income of just over 
£9,000 a year, ought to have given MBNA significant cause for concern in offering the 
lending that it did.
Did MBNA make a fair lending decision?  
That Ms Ms income appears to have been low, and she owed money in relation to two other 
credit cards, indicates to me that MBNA was taking a significant risk in providing her with an 
additional credit card. 
I believe the indications are that a reasonable assessment of Ms Ms circumstances, by 
MBNA, would have led it to feel that Ms M was unlikely to be able to repay this credit card.
For these reasons, I think that MBNA should have realised in the circumstances that it was 
unlikely Ms M would have been able to cope with the additional credit it was offering and that 
it wasnt in keeping with good industry practice at the time to lend to her.
MBNAs referred to Ms Ms argument that she fell into more serious financial trouble at 
around this time because of gambling. It says this occurred in the main after she applied for 
her MBNA credit card and that it couldnt have been aware of the issue in August 2006. To 
clarify, I agree with MBNA on this point and can confirm that Ms Ms gambling hasnt been a 
factor in me reaching my findings.
Did MBNA act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms M in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that MBNA acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms M in some other way.Putting things right
MBNA should put Ms M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt been given the 
credit card, albeit shes had the benefit of the money borrowed and so will need to repay the 
principal amount. This means MBNA will need to:
A. Refund any interest charged on the account plus all late payment and over limit fees. 
Any refund should be used to reduce the outstanding balance on the account. And it 
shouldnt apply any interest on any outstanding balance. 
B. If  when MBNA works out what Ms M would have owed each month without the 
interest, charges and fees  she paid more than enough to clear her balance, MBNA 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Ms M paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Ms M would have owed MBNA something on her credit 
card. The interest rate should be 8% simple a year.  
C. MBNA should tell Ms M what its done to work out A and B. MBNA should also remove 
any adverse information its recorded on Ms Ms credit file as a result of it offering the 
credit card account. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require MBNA Limited to put 
things right for Ms M as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman