DRN-4262823
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he got from Countrywide Principal Services Limited 
(Countrywide) which meant that he lost out on a favourable interest rate on his remortgage.
What happened
Mr W was looking for a new mortgage product. His existing mortgage product with a lender, I 
shall call Lender A, had ended in June 2021 but he hadnt reapplied for a new product until 
he contacted Countrywide in early 2022.  Countrywide submitted the case to a lender, I shall 
call Lender B, on 24 March 2022 where it was assessed. Lender B asked for an employment 
contract, but the broker assured Mr W that 12 months payslips were sufficient. These were 
sent by the broker on 6 May 2022, but the lender required the employment contract. Mr W 
sent this to the broker on 22 May 2022, but it wasnt sent to the lender and Lender B 
cancelled the case on 27 May 2022, but this was missed by the broker.
Countrywide accepted that there was poor service and offered to refund the Lifetime broker 
fee, the administration fee of £99 and £200 for Mr Ws trouble and upset. Our investigator 
recommended that this complaint should be upheld and that as a result of Countrywides 
failure to process the application in a timely manner that Mr W lost out on the two-year 
product with an interest rate of 2.49%. 
Our investigators view
Our investigators view was that if the delays caused by the broker hadnt occurred, that Mr 
W would have been successful with getting a mortgage offer with an initial rate of 2.49% and 
she recommended that Countrywide compensate Mr W making up the difference between 
that rate and his current mortgage offer. The mortgage offer Mr W eventually accepted was 
with Lender A and was for a fixed rate of 3.61% over five years until November 2027. She 
also recommended that Countrywide pay compensation of £300 for Mr Ws distress and 
inconvenience. Countywide disagreed saying in summary that as no mortgage offer was 
issued by Lender B and that it wouldnt be certain that a mortgage offer would issue, and our 
investigator was not comparing like for like between a mortgage with a two-year fixed rate 
and a mortgage with a five-year fixed rate. 
My Provisional Findings
As my initial view of this complaint differed from that of our investigator I issued a Provisional 
Decision and said the following:
Ive taken some time to consider this complaint and asked for further information from Mr W 
and Countywide. There is undoubtably delay and poor service by the broker in dealing with 
the application, but the question is what financial loss, if any, did Mr W suffer because of 
this. Although Mr W brought the complaint in his sole name, he wasnt the sole owner of the 
property when he made the application. At that time the property was owned by Mr W and 
his sister. The property had at the time a mortgage with Lender A and Mr W, when the 
remortgage application with Countywide fell through, returned to Lender A, and got a new 
mortgage product. But this was only after he got a transfer of equity transferring the property 
from being in his and his sisters name to himself alone.
Mr Ws difficulty here in pressing his claim for financial loss is that when he solely applied for 
a remortgage with Countrywide, he wasnt the sole owner of the property. At that stage, even 
if Countrywide had acted diligently, it couldnt have sourced him a remortgage in his sole 
name because he wasnt the sole owner of the property. Mr W required his sisters equity to 
be transferred to him before he could make application for a remortgage in his sole name.
I note that this particular issue, that the property wasnt in Mr Ws sole name, wasnt brought 
to Countrywides attention in the documentation I have seen. It wasnt brought to our 
attention either. I noted after looking at the documentation that an earlier mortgage offer in 
2020 was in joint names and I asked whether there had been a transfer of equity application. 
Mr W replied The other party was not a joint owner and therefore no transfer of equity was 
required. Since my remortgage this year (2023) I am the only named person on the 
mortgage 
That surprised me as invariably if a mortgage is in joint names the property will be in joint 
names, so I enquired further. Mr W replied Technically the property was jointly owned . Mr 
W then described how the property prior to the remortgage in 2021 was owned by himself 
and his then partner and then in February 2021 by Mr W and his sister and then during the 
remortgage process, in February 2023, his sister was removed from the property and the 
mortgage. So, I take it there was a transfer of equity to Mr W from his sister when he 
remortgaged the property with his current lender. 
But at the time Mr W applied for this remortgage there hadnt been a transfer of equity 
application and Mr W was applying solely for a remortgage in his own name on a property 
that was jointly owned. This application could not succeed. It required a joint application and 
there was none. Or it required the equity to be transferred and there was no such application 
I expect in such situations an adviser would advise on a transfer of equity but then again Mr 
W failed to mention the property was jointly owned, so how could the adviser advise on that?  
Our investigator decided that Mr W had suffered a financial loss because she believed that if 
Lender B issued a mortgage offer, Mr W would have been able to have completed the 
remortgage at the initial interest rate. Our investigator, just as much as Countrywide, 
wouldnt have known that the property was jointly owned as that wasnt disclosed. But if 
Lender B had issued a mortgage offer for a remortgage at some stage Lender Bs solicitor 
would have raised the title issue and the remortgage couldnt complete on the basis of that 
offer. It maybe that another offer could have issued on the basis that Mr Ws sister would sell 
her equity to him. But that might have required another mortgage offer with another rate of 
interest. Or Mr W may not have been able to complete the sale on time in accordance with 
the mortgage offer. I note that the transfer between Mr W and his sister and the remortgage 
with Lender A didnt complete until 31 January 2023. We dont know what length of period 
Lender B was allowing for completions on its mortgage offers. I understand they were 
reducing during this period as interest rates changed. But assuming the mortgage offer was 
available for six months at the outside, if Countrywide had acted diligently and an offer had 
issued in May 2022, the mortgage offer would have lapsed in any case before Mr W would 
have been in a position to complete on 31 January 2023.
There is also an issue as to whether Mr W would suffer any financial loss even if he had 
received a mortgage offer from Lender B and was able to complete on the basis of that offer. 
As Countrywide pointed out his application to Lender B was for a fixed rate for two years. Mr 
W has a fixed rate for five years with Lender A. The five-year rate that Mr W was able to 
secure is certainly higher than the two-year rate but substantially lower than five-year rates 
presently available. If Mr W had accepted the two-year rate at the end of that period he would have to fix again. Its not clear to me that its likely any rate he would be offered for the 
following three years would be lower than the rate hes presently on and possibly much 
higher. So, its not clear that at the end of the five-year cycle that he would be financially 
worse off by not getting the two-year fix with Lender B.   
For the reasons set out above I dont accept that Mr W suffered a financial loss as a result of 
Countrywides actions or inactions. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and there is a question as to whether, in any case. Its fair to penalise 
Countywide if the customer failed to disclose such a significant fact as that he wasnt the 
sole owner of the property on which he was looking to remortgage. But I must also bear in 
mind that this was very poor customer service from Countrywide. Mr W refers to trying to 
make contact with the broker and not receiving return calls and the broker failing to pass on 
significant information to him or Lender B at crucial stages of the application. So, for that 
poor service, I intend to uphold the complaint. Countrywide should refund the lifetime broker 
fee and administration fee and pay Mr W £300 for his distress and inconvenience. Before 
coming to my final decision, I will consider any further submissions that Mr W or Countrywide 
may wish to make by the date referred to above. 
I then invited further submissions. Countrywide said it had nothing further to add. Mr W 
made some further submissions which Ive summarised and considered below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the issuing of my Provisional Decision, Mr W made a detailed further submission 
which I summarise below : 
Mr W says that he suffered a financial loss of the additional time spent on Lender As 
variable rate and then the difference between an interest rate of 2.49% and one of 
3.61%.
He was able to complete a transfer of equity with Lender A concurrent with the 
remortgage and that would have been the case had he got an offer from Lender B if 
Countywide had done its job properly.
Countrywide was aware of the ownership situation from the first meeting and a 
transfer of equity was not a major issue and this was not a sale to his sister.
Mr W doesnt see the relevance of the 31 January 2023 that I refer to in my 
Provisional Decision and says that, in any case if Countrywide was involved that as 
professional mortgage advisers that it would be completed sooner. 
I should not use hindsight in coming to a decision on Mr Ws financial loss.
Ive given careful consideration to Mr Ws further submissions, but they dont alter my view 
that my Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint. 
Ive no doubt that Mr W ended up on a higher interest rate than he intended to be on, and 
Ive held that Countrywide acted inefficiently in his application. But in order to find that Mr Ws financial loss resulted from Countrywides inefficiency I need to show that if Countrywide 
acted efficiently that Mr W would have got the interest rate that he wanted. The central 
problem is that in my view Mr W didnt inform Countrywide - as he didnt inform us - that the 
property was owned in joint names with his sister and asked the broker to process an 
application in his sole name. So, even if Countrywide processed he application efficiently 
and a mortgage offer issued, the mortgage couldnt complete as the mortgage offer was in 
Mr Ws sole name and the property title in joint names.
Ive said Ive seen no evidence that Mr W advised Countywide of the joint ownership of the 
property with his sister. That remains the position an no new evidence has been produced 
supporting Mr Ws claim that he informed the broker of this at the first meeting. My view is 
that Mr W understood he was he sole owner of the property and so didnt make the broker 
aware as he didnt make us aware that the property was in joint ownership. I dont believe 
that he considered it a significant detail that the property was in his and his sisters name. 
Indeed in his further submission Mr W says  In my eyes and that of my sisters she did not 
claim ownership of the property although she clearly had such a claim.
 Ive explained above why this failure to inform would have led to the likely withdrawal of any 
mortgage offer by Lender B given the mismatch between the offer in a single name and the 
title in joint names and so I dont consider that even if Countrywide acted efficiently that Mr 
W would have got the interest rate he wanted and so, I cant fairly say that he suffered a 
financial loss as a result. 
Mr W says that the transfer of equity and the remortgage could have proceed simultaneously 
as it did with Lender A. But Ive noted that this took over four months to complete with 
Lender A from September to 31 January 2023  hence the relevance of that date. But the 
processes would be different between Lender A and Lender B. Lender A already had a 
mortgage and a charge on Mr W and his sisters equity and could release its charge over Mr 
Ws sister interest. Lender B had no charge to release. It would have required Mr Ws sister 
to transfer her equity to Mr W (presumably by application to Lender A) before Mr W could 
remortgage his interest to Lender B. 
Thats a more complex operation than would be required if Mr W made his remortgage 
application to Lender A as it would require applications to Lender A and Lender B. I queried 
whether this could be done in time should any mortgage offer have issued by Lender B given 
the time it took for Mr Ws less complex application to Lender A to complete. But in any case 
as Mr W hadnt told the broker about the property was in joint ownership, the application 
couldnt proceed in any event. As I dont agree that Mr W suffered a financial loss as a result 
of the brokers actions, I neednt deal with how that is calculated. 
So, Im of the view that my Provisional Decision represents a far outcome to this complaint 
and for the reasons set out there, Im upholding this complaint.  
Putting things right
Countrywide Principal Services Limited should refund to Mr W the lifetime broker fee and 
administration fee and pay Mr W £300 for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold his complaint and require Countrywide Principal Service Limited to pay the 
compensation referred to above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman