DRN-4204363
The complaint
Miss M complains about how One Insurance Limited handled her claim on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants compensation for her losses and distress.
What happened
Miss M was involved in an incident, and she made a claim to One Insurance. But she was 
unhappy with the progress of repairs to her car. She said she had to spend a lot of time 
chasing One Insurance for updates. And she was without a courtesy car which caused her 
inconvenience and she incurred expenses. One Insurance agreed that it had caused delays 
in the claim. It paid Miss M £250 compensation for this. But Miss M remained unhappy.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought One 
Insurances compensation offer wasnt sufficient for the impact of its repeated errors over 
several months. She thought it should increase this to £500, in keeping with our published 
guidance. And she thought One Insurance hadnt considered Miss Ms loss of use of her car. 
So she thought it should review Miss Ms expenses for the time she was without transport. 
One Insurance replied that Miss M had been without a courtesy car for two weeks and so it 
thought its offer of £250 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has provided an account of her claim journey. She said it took about three weeks for 
One Insurance to decide that it couldnt provide her with an approved repairer due to her 
location and so she could use her own garage. During this time Miss M was without 
transport and had to borrow from family or get lifts and the stress affected her mental health 
and her work. 
Miss M then had difficulties obtaining a hire car in lieu of the courtesy car her policy 
provided. She spent two weeks trying to arrange this. She said One Insurance offered her 
£15 a day loss of use for a period whilst her car was being repaired, but this wasnt followed 
up. Miss M said she was without a car for two months. I can understand that this must have 
been stressful for her, and I can see that she had to spend long periods on hold waiting for 
One Insurance to update her. 
One Insurance agreed that it had been unable to provide an approved repairer and so it had 
authorised Miss M to use her own garage and it would provide a hire car. Repairs were 
authorised a month after the claim was lodged. This is longer than I would expect even given 
the holiday period and the difficulties in locating a suitable repairer. So I dont think this was 
fair and reasonable. 
One Insurances agent then made an error by cancelling the hire car instruction. And when 
Miss M was later provided with a vehicle, there were issues with it. But the agent didnt 
follow this up. So Miss M was left without a car whilst hers was being repaired. 
I can see that Miss Ms policy provides for a courtesy car whilst hers is being repaired by an 
approved repairer. One Insurance has confirmed that it agreed to arrange hire for Miss M as 
it couldnt arrange repairs by its approved repairer network. It also told Miss M, in its letter 
following her claim:
For any fault incident, you will be provided with a replacement courtesy vehicle for the 
duration of your repairs In cases where your vehicle is no longer safe to drive, we will 
endeavour to provide a replacement vehicle as soon as possible, in the event the vehicle 
can be deemed economically correct to repair.
Miss M said her car wasnt driveable. And One Insurances engineers report doesnt state 
that it was roadworthy. So Miss M should have been provided with a replacement car from 
the point One Insurance decided that the car could be repaired, which seems to have been a 
week after the incident. 
But this didnt happen, and Miss M was without transport for two months, not for two weeks 
as One Insurance has said. During this time, Miss M had to chase One Insurance for 
updates. She was kept on hold for long periods and needlessly due to receiving automatic 
letters asking her to contact it. She had the stress of arranging alternative transport and she 
has said she lost business when transport wasnt available. 
When a business makes a mistake, as One Insurance accepts it has done here, we expect it 
to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer. 
Miss M said One Insurance made her an offer of £15 a day for her loss of use when it would 
have cost her over £50 a day to hire a replacement car. I cant see that One Insurance has 
followed up this offer. And I agree with the Investigator that, to restore Miss Ms position, it 
should review her travel costs for this period so that Miss M is recompensed for her loss of 
this policy benefit. 
One Insurance paid Miss M £250 compensation for its poor claims handling. But Im not 
satisfied that this was sufficient in the circumstances to compensate Miss M for the impact its 
repeated errors had on her over a period of two months. Our Investigator recommended that 
this should be increased to £500, and Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance for this level of trouble and upset.
Putting things right
I require One Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Miss M a further £250 (£500 in total) compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim. 
2. Contact Miss M and review her expenses for the period she was without a car, in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions and what is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman