DRN-3036730
The complaint
Miss M complains that her transfer into her Lifetime Individual Savings Account (LISA) with
Skipton Building Society on 5 April 2020 didnt credit her account until the following day. This
meant that it counted towards 2020/2021 tax year rather than the 2019/2020 tax year as she
believed.
What happened
On the afternoon of 5 April 2020, Miss M transferred £4,000 into her LISA with Skipton by a
faster payment from her current account. The money left her account and she could see that
it was showing in her LISA when she checked it on Skiptons mobile app.
In January 2021, Miss M tried to transfer another payment of £4,000 into her LISA, but she
was unable to do this as her account showed that her previous transfer had been allocated
to her allowance for that tax year. She also noticed that she hadnt received the 25%
Government bonus for her account. Miss M complained.
Skipton said that, as the 5 April 2020 was a Sunday, it hadnt been able to process Miss Ms
transfer until Monday 6 April 2020 and so the payment counted towards the 2020/2021 tax
year. It said it had made a business decision for a cut-off point for bank transfers of 5pm on
Friday 3 April 2020, and this information was shown on its website and a customers online
account, but not its app. It said that it was unable to backdate the payment.
Skipton apologised that an internal system error had meant that some requests for the
Government bonus had been missed. It then requested this for Miss M and asked for it to be
backdated to when it would have expected to receive it if it had been requested when it
should have been. Skipton offered to pay Miss M £30 by way of an apology for this.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think Skipton had acted fairly.
He said the information about the cut-off date for payments into ISAs wasnt available to
Miss M on the Skipton app that she uses for her account. He said that, had she been aware
of this date, then she could have used her debit card to make the payment, as this had a
later acceptance time. So he said that Skipton should adjust her payment so it came under
her ISA allowance for the 2019/2020 tax year. He said it should then allow Miss M to invest
the £4,000 she wanted into the 2020/2021 tax year allowance.
The investigator said that Skipton had arranged for the missed bonus to be credited to her
account and backdated to when it wouldve been received so he didnt think it needed to do
anything further about this. He said that Skipton had offered Miss M £30 as an apology for
the inconvenience she was caused and he thought this was fair.
Skipton didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that, although the message wasnt
displayed on its mobile app, the information was available to customers on its website and
through their online banking. It also said that there was information within its frequently
asked questions section about when a payment would start earning interest. It said this
makes it clear that it a faster payment is received after the cut-off time on a Friday it would
normally be received on the following Monday, although it may be visible before that. It also
said that the account terms and conditions say that electronic payments other than CHAPS
may take two business days, so not weekends or Bank Holidays. Skipton said that HMRC
rules were strict that ISA subscriptions may only be backdated if an error has been made,
and it didnt agree that it had made one.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. In summary, I said I didnt 
think it should be upheld. 
I said that Miss M had sent a faster payment to Skipton on the afternoon of Sunday 5 April 
2020, and she checked her Skipton account on its banking app to see the amount showing. 
But Skipton isnt a clearing bank, it uses another bank to process payments such as this. So 
although Skipton may have been notified of the incoming faster payment and this was 
displayed on its systems, the money hadnt yet been received or been processed by Skipton 
until the following working day  Monday 6 April 2020.
In relation to timings for payments into a savings account, Skiptons terms and conditions
say:
Other than cheques, payments made into your account will be credited to your account, will
earn interest and be available for you to use on the day we receive the money.
Skipton explained that it put a notice both on its website and within its online banking
that warned customers about the payment deadlines for ISAs, with the end of the tax year
falling on a weekend. I said that whilst it may have been good service for Skipton to have 
also made this information available on its app, at the relevant time its app only had the 
facility to display one notification as it had only been introduced at the end of 2019. And 
Skipton had chosen to make that notification about support for customers during the 
pandemic, which I thought was fair in these unusual circumstances. Particularly as it had 
made the information available to its customers elsewhere.
So I said that whilst I appreciated that Miss M may only use Skiptons app for her account, 
which is of course her choice to make, I didnt think that Skipton acted wrongly or unfairly by 
not explicitly warning customers about the relevant timings for an ISA transfer on its app.
Skipton had provided relevant information about this both on its website and through a
customers online banking. And I didnt think Miss Ms use of its app to check her balance led 
to her being unfairly disadvantaged. I said this because I thought it was reasonable for most
customers to have been generally aware that the last day of the tax year is 5 April. And this
information was also set out in the key facts about the LISA for the time, under the section
Important information about ISAs:
How much can I save in an ISA?
 The government currently sets a tax-free allowance that you can save in an Individual
Savings Account (ISA) each tax year (6 April  5 April). The allowance for the 2019/2020 tax
year is £20,000.Although I fully appreciated the situation at the time, and why making her payment to her ISA
may have slipped her mind, Miss M made her transfer on the final day of the tax year, which
didnt fall on a business/working day. I said that I accepted that, if she had seen Skiptons 
warning notice on its website or through her online banking, then she may have chosen to 
make the payment by using a debit card, which had a cut-off point of 11pm for debit card 
payments. But I understood from her explanation that she checked Skiptons app after 
making the transfer, which I felt could indicate that she may not have seen any notification 
beforehand anyway.
Miss M sent her money to Skipton from her account with another building society, rather
than a clearing bank. I could see from her current account statement that this showed the
money first crediting her account with the transaction date of 6 April, but with an effective
date of 5 April, and this was the same for it leaving her account for the payment to Skipton.
And the confirmation email Skipton sent Miss M said the payment reached her account on 6
April 2020.
Information about how the Faster Payments Service works is published by Faster Payments
Scheme Limited (part of pay.uk) and is available online. This explains that when a customer
instructs their bank to make a faster payment; that bank will send the transaction through the
Faster Payments Service, which then sends the instruction to the receiving bank to check
that the account number is valid. It then sends a message back to the Faster Payments
Service that it has accepted the payment. But its after this that the payment credits the
account. The information also says that customers should check with their own bank to
guarantee payments on weekends.
In the particular circumstances, I didnt think Skipton should be required to backdate the 
receipt of Miss Ms transfer into her ISA, or that it should compensate her for it not being 
received in her intended tax year. This was because I didnt think it acted unfairly or made a 
mistake in the way in processed her transfer.
However, it acknowledged that a system error caused the Government bonus for Miss Ms 
LISA to be missed. It apologised for this; arranged for the payment to be credited and the 
interest backdated to when it should have been received. It also offered to pay Miss M £30 
by way of an apology for this. I thought this represented a fair resolution to that aspect of 
Miss Ms complaint, as it put her LISA back into the position it would have been in if this 
system error hadnt happened.
The responses
Skipton responded to say that it had nothing further to add in response to my provisional 
decision.
Miss M didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss M nor Skipton have replied with any further comments in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions that I reached in it. My final decision
My decision is that I require Skipton Building Society to pay Miss M £30 as an apology for 
the mistake with requesting her Government Bonus, as it has already offered to do. I dont 
think Skipton Building Society should be required to either arrange to backdate her transfer 
into her LISA or compensate her for this being included in her subscription for the 2020/2021 
tax year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman