DRN-4031438
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy with the way Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) handled her claim for a refund of a 
payment she made using her Monzo debit card.
What happened
In January 2022, Ms O paid a business Ill call B £2,943.36 to have bariatric surgery 
overseas. She used her Monzo debit card to pay for it.
Ms O says it was agreed she would have a particular procedure. However, she says the 
surgeon didnt attempt this procedure and, in her own words, botched the surgery. Ms O 
says the surgeon cut part of her stomach that he shouldnt have touched. This part of her 
stomach soon became infected and she was rushed to hospital on her return to the UK. The 
surgeon who performed the emergency surgery told her she could have died.
On or around 19 January 2022, Ms O asked Monzo to help her get a refund. It asked Ms O 
to provide some evidence to support her claim. When Monzo received the evidence, it 
initiated a chargeback. B defended the claim and Monzo chose not to escalate the dispute 
to arbitration, which is when Mastercard makes a final decision.
Ms O complained to Monzo about the outcome.
In reply, Monzo said it had followed its internal procedure correctly. And, confusingly and 
incorrectly, it said: Mastercard are satisfied that the merchant have acted fairly.
Ms O then referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think Monzo had done anything wrong because, based on 
what Monzo had said, she thought it had initiated a chargeback and Mastercard had ruled in 
Bs favour.
Ms O asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 November 2022.
I first explained the chargeback process:
A chargeback is a way for a debit card provider to reclaim money from the 
suppliers bank when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services she paid for. It 
isnt a legal right and theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover 
the money this way. The process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this 
case, are set by Mastercard  and a strict criteria and time limits apply.
Put simply, the process is this:
The consumer contacts her debit card provider to dispute the transaction.
If the consumers reason for disputing the transaction falls into one of the 
permitted categories (and she can provide some supporting evidence), the card 
provider will usually initiate a chargeback.
The suppliers bank is notified, and it then notifies the supplier. The supplier can 
accept or defend the chargeback.
If it decides to defend the chargeback, the supplier must explain why and provide 
supporting evidence to show that the dispute is invalid.
The debit card provider will consider the evidence and decide whether to accept 
or reject the suppliers defence.
If the debit card provider thinks the suppliers evidence is insufficient and rejects 
its defence, the supplier can either accept the decision or the matter can be 
referred to Mastercard for it to make a final decision. This final stage is called 
arbitration.
I then explained why, despite what Monzo said in its letter to Ms O dated 8 June 2022  that 
Mastercard had assessed your claim, and ruled in favour of the merchant  I didnt think 
Monzo had escalated the dispute to Mastercard for arbitration, and instead, had simply 
accepted Bs defence.
As Monzo now accepts that this is what happened, I dont need to set out my reasons in the 
way I did before.
But I think its worth repeating some of the observations I made about the way Monzo 
handled the claim:
I said that as it didnt escalate the dispute to Mastercard, it was regrettable that 
Monzo had indicated it had when it wrote to Ms O on two separate occasions.
I referred to a message Monzo sent Ms O on 17 May 2022, which said: We are only 
able to progress disputes where we can show the merchant has done something 
wrong i.e. they have broken their T&Cs. Unfortunately here the merchant was acting 
in line with their T&Cs so we havent been able to take this further for you. I said it 
wasnt clear to me what Monzo meant by this, as it had purportedly sent me all the 
evidence B had supplied when it defended the chargeback and there were no terms 
and conditions.
I noted that the clinical evidence provided by B was in a foreign language and I said 
that, as Monzo hadnt provided a translation, I didnt know if it had translated any or 
all of the documents or how it had otherwise satisfied itself that the dispute was 
invalid based on this evidence.
I said Bs defence and the evidence it had provided focused on proving that the 
surgery took place, not that it was performed well or with reasonable care and skill. 
So it didnt specifically address Ms Os concerns or the reason for the chargeback.
I concluded this section of my provisional decision by saying that, in the circumstances, it 
wasnt clear to me why Monzo had accepted Bs defence.
However, I said that, based on the evidence Id seen at that stage, I couldnt say that if 
Monzo had escalated the dispute to Mastercard, it was more likely than not that Mastercard 
would have determined the dispute in Ms Os favour.
I explained that Id asked Monzo to send me the evidence Ms O had provided to support her 
claim, and included a list of what it had sent me. I then referred to two pieces of evidence  a 
translation of the epicrisis report and a letter signed by the surgeon  which indicated that 
the surgeon had performed the procedure Ms O had paid for. I continued:And it doesnt look like Ms O provided any evidence from the surgeon who 
performed the emergency surgery in London, or the hospital where it was performed, 
to show that the surgeon [overseas] didnt attempt [the procedure]. Similarly, it 
doesnt look like Ms O provided any evidence from the London surgeon  or another 
suitably qualified medical practitioner  that shows that the surgery [overseas] was 
botched or defective.
To be clear, I couldnt possibly say, on the evidence Ive seen, if Ms O had [the 
procedure] or another procedure [overseas]  or comment on the care and skill used 
during the surgery itself. Nor is that my role. Instead, I must decide whether I think 
Ms O has lost out because Monzo accepted Bs defence and didnt escalate the 
dispute to Mastercard. I know that Ms O will be very disappointed, but I dont think 
she has. In the absence of supporting evidence from a suitably qualified medical 
practitioner that shows [the procedure] wasnt performed and/or that the surgery was 
botched, I think its unlikely that Mastercard would have determined the dispute in 
Ms Os favour.
This is not a comment in any way on the merits of the underlying dispute between Ms 
O and B. Instead, it reflects the limits of the chargeback scheme, the nature of Ms 
Os claim, and the evidence provided.
I concluded my provisional decision by saying:
All things considered, Im currently minded to tell Monzo to pay Ms O £300 to 
compensate her for the mistakes it made, which I think are likely to have caused her 
some avoidable distress and inconvenience at what was clearly a very difficult time. 
However, as I dont think those mistakes made a difference to the outcome in this 
case, Im not currently minded to tell it to pay more.
Ms O replied to my provisional decision on 1 December 2022. She disagreed with my 
provisional findings, and referred me to, and then commented on, specific sections of my 
decision. Significantly, Ms O referred me to the section where I said: it doesnt look like 
Ms O provided any evidence from the surgeon who performed the emergency surgery in 
London, and explained that she had provided Monzo with this evidence. Ms O sent me a 
copy of a short report from the hospital where she had the emergency surgery, and proof 
that shed sent this to Monzo.
Monzo replied to my provisional decision on 14 December 2022 to say it disagreed with the 
amount of compensation I said I was minded to award Ms O because of the avoidable 
distress and inconvenience it had caused.
In light of Ms Os reply, I asked Monzo to explain why it didnt send us a copy of the hospital 
report when it first sent us its file, or when, in November 2022, I asked it to send me all the 
information it had received from Ms O. Monzo said the report was sent with its file and 
suggested that, due to the number of screenshots, its file may not have uploaded properly. 
(This doesnt explain why it wasnt included with the information it sent in November 2022  
or why, despite Monzo saying it had attached it to its email of 14 December 2022, the report 
still wasnt included with the evidence supplied.)
Given the new information and evidence provided, I emailed both sides on 20 January 2023 
to address some of the points Ms O had made.
I explained that the comment that court proceedings would be more appropriate in 
my provisional decision was a quote Id taken from Bs cover letter, which I referred 
to as a piece of evidence  not because I accepted, or agreed with, what it said. And I said that while I appreciated that Ms O had explored the possibility of suing B and, 
regrettably, didnt think it was possible, it doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint.
I confirmed that I thought the reason code chosen by Monzo when it initiated the 
chargeback was the most appropriate one.
In her reply to my provisional decision, Ms O reiterated that neither B nor Monzo had 
provided any terms and conditions and asked: How is it possible that [B] acted in line 
with their terms and conditions when you have not even received or read them? I 
explained that Id made the same point in my provisional decision and said: To be 
clear, as Monzo didnt have a copy of the [applicable] terms and conditions, I cant 
see how it could accept Bs defence on this basis  and its message [to Ms O that 
said B had acted in line with their T&Cs] caused needless confusion and upset as a 
result.
Ms O also said there is a difference between the procedure mentioned in the epicrisis 
report and the letter signed by the surgeon (procedure 1), and the procedure she 
wanted (procedure 2). She said this was clear evidence that the wrong procedure 
was performed and that, regardless, [neither procedure] was attempted as [the 
surgeon] cut a piece of stomach out and left it in my body to become infected. This is 
not a bariatric procedure nor is it safe or usual of any type of procedure which is why 
I used the term botched. And as well as providing the short report from the hospital 
where she had the emergency surgery, Ms O provided me with the contact details of 
her surgeon in London and explained that shed be willing to get clearer evidence 
from him if necessary. And she said: I now ask for a fair opportunity for this case to 
be brought forward to Mastercard so they can properly assess it.
In response to these points, I said:
Unfortunately, a business can only initiate a chargeback once. As Monzo accepted 
Bs defence, Ms Os claim cannot now be referred to Mastercard for a final decision. 
Thats why I must decide if Ms O has lost out because of the mistakes Monzo made.
Similarly, while I appreciate the Ms Os surgeon in London may be willing and able to 
provide more information, I need to consider this complaint based on the evidence 
that was available at the time, which is what Mastercard would have seen.
 Ive reconsidered my provisional findings in light of the hospital report and Ms Os 
comments about the difference between [procedure 1] and [procedure 2]. I know Ms 
O will be very disappointed but I still dont think I can safely say that Mastercard 
would have determined the dispute in Ms Os favour. Ill explain why.
First, while there may be a difference between [procedure 1] and [procedure 2], the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt include a contract or any pre-surgery documents that 
show what type of surgery Ms O wanted and/or paid for  or if the surgeon had any 
discretion about the type of procedure he could perform. Whats more, Ms O says the 
surgeon didnt perform either [procedure 1] or [procedure 2]. But this isnt clear from 
the hospital report. So if the chargeback had been escalated to Mastercard, I dont 
think it would have determined the dispute in Ms Os favour on this point.
Second, Ive carefully considered the hospital report, which includes the following 
sentence: the remenant (sic) stomach is left insisde (sic) ischaemic dilated and full of 
secrestions (sic) causing a pressure on the spleen, liver, stomach pouch pancrease 
(sic). It also says: stomach fundus and remenat (sic) removed in 2 pieces. Ms O 
says the surgeon [overseas] cut a piece of her stomach out and left it in her body to 
become infected. However, I understand the remnant stomach is the portion of the 
stomach that remains after gastric surgery. Again, I want to be clear: I am not saying 
that the surgery wasnt botched or defective. Im simply saying that I dont think the hospital report, on its own, would have allowed Mastercard to conclude that it was 
and therefore determine the dispute in Ms Os favour.
I want to stress that this reflects both the limitations of the chargeback scheme  
which doesnt allow for further evidence to be provided past a certain point  and the 
complexity of Ms Os claim. This is essentially a medical negligence claim. Its 
standard practice in litigation of this sort for independent experts to be appointed by 
both sides to assist the court, and for a large amount of evidence to be collected, 
analysed and presented to the court. The chargeback scheme, which is relatively 
basic, doesnt allow for either.
I invited both sides to provide any further comments by 3 February 2023.
I received additional comments from Ms O and Monzo, which Ive summarised and 
addressed below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reply to my email, Ms O says, the most important information is still being disregarded 
and that is that Monzo did not receive any terms and conditions, so how can they say that 
[B] acted within their rights? And she says B acted against the law. Finally, Ms O says:
[B] nearly killed meI submitted multiple pieces of evidence which proved so  
Monzo either disregarded or lost this evidence which is why Mastercard rejected my 
claim. Monzo then claimed that they had [Bs] terms and conditions to go by but both 
myself and the ombudsman have failed to receive these terms and conditions.
In my provisional decision, I said Ms O has explained the life changing consequences of the 
surgery. Its heartrending and Im truly sorry. I want to assure Ms O that I havent 
disregarded the fact that B hasnt provided a copy of its terms and conditions. But the 
absence of a contract  or terms and conditions  isnt determinative in this case. Instead, 
Ive carefully considered all the available evidence to decide whether I think it was sufficient 
for Mastercard to determine the dispute in Ms Os favour. And for the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think it was. Id like to reiterate that Mastercard didnt reject Ms Os claim. Monzo didnt 
escalate the dispute to Mastercard  it accepted Bs defence. And while I understand Ms Os 
concerns about Monzo losing or disregarding the evidence she supplied, I explained what 
evidence Id seen in my provisional decision precisely to give Ms O the opportunity to send 
me any other evidence, which she did. So I now think Ive seen and considered the key 
evidence in this case.
Monzos reply to my provisional decision and subsequent email
In response to my provisional findings that Monzo should not have told Ms O that it had 
escalated the dispute to Mastercard when it hadnt, Monzo said:
[Weve] reviewed our responses and we've confirmed to the customer that we have 
escalated this claim to Mastercard to check if we can refund the customer and 
Mastercard has a very clear set of rules that we need to follow. By following those 
rules, we know that Mastercard would rule against the customer here, satisfied that 
the merchant has done their job.

[Weve] reviewed our final response letter and it says Mastercard has received your claim and ruled in favour of the merchant. This is the first part of our communication 
which was incorrect. The relevant point of our final response is that the process was 
followed and the case was lost (i.e. accept in the merchants favour, by us).
It said it didnt think £300 was appropriate  or in line with [its] redress policy  for one 
error made and offered £50 instead.
In response to the email I sent on 20 January 2023, Monzo said:
[Wed] like to confirm that our messages were meant to say that Monzo has 
followed our processes in raising chargebacks under the Mastercard chargeback 
scheme not our T&Cs. I would like to apologise to [Ms O] for any undue confusion 
here.
And it referred me to a page on our website where we explain our approach to compensating 
consumers for distress and inconvenience, and said:
[Weve] reviewed your redress levels on your website and usually for an instance 
where the wording or possible phrasing has gone wrong in a final responsewe 
should be awarding up to £100
As it accepted that Ms O was very confused by its messages, it revised its offer to £100.
First, the information on our website is there to give firms a broad overview of some of the 
things we consider when awarding compensation. But its important for Monzo to understand 
that we look at each case on its own merits. And the same mistake can have a different 
impact on different people  which means we may award different amounts in similar cases. 
We make all this very clear on our website.
On our website, we also provide some examples of the range of awards we might make.
We say that, typically, an apology or a small monetary award of less than £100 will fairly 
compensate someone for a one-off incident, such as a small administrative error or a short 
delay  especially when the impact is minimal. Monzo thinks this is the sort of award I should 
make in this case. I disagree.
On our website, we say: An award between £100 and up to £300 might be suitable when 
there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable 
amount of effort to sort out. These typically result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even 
weeks, and cause either some distress, inconvenience, disappointment or loss of 
expectation.
In this case, Monzo told Ms O that Mastercard had assessed your claim, and ruled in favour 
of the merchant. This wasnt true. And it wasnt a small administrative error or a poor choice 
of words  it was simply wrong. Likewise, when it told Ms O that B was acting in line with 
their T&Cs so we havent been able to take this further for you, it was simply wrong. And 
these mistakes, which werent corrected by Monzo, caused needless confusion and upset at 
what was clearly a very difficult time for Ms O. I think Monzo has underestimated and 
downplayed the significance and impact of the mistakes it made. And Im satisfied that an 
award of £300 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Ms O 
£300.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman