DRN-2853058
The complaint
Mr D is complaining about how Capital One (Europe) plc treated him in respect of his credit 
card when he was in financial difficulty.  
What happened
Mr D had a credit card with Capital One. He says that in October 2017 he spoke with Capital 
One and told them he was in financial difficulty, due to a gambling problem. He said he 
asked them to freeze payments as he would be borrowing money to make the repayments. 
But they didnt do so, leading to increased financial difficulty and eventually a default on his 
credit file at the end of 2018, as well as impacting Mr Ds mental health.
Mr D complained to Capital One. In response, Capital One said that up until May 2018, Mr D 
generally paid more than his minimum payments and made them in time. They said after 
that date, theyd made several arrangements with Mr D to try to get his account back on 
track but Mr D had broken each of these. They said thats why they needed to default Mr Ds 
account in December 2018.
Mr D wasnt happy so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint  he said he couldnt see that Mr D had told Capital One about his gambling 
problem or mental health difficulties. And he felt that Capital One had done enough to try to 
help Mr D with his financial difficulties. 
Mr D disagreed. He said our investigator had based his opinion solely on Capital Ones 
notes and hadnt taken into account what hed said. He asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint  so it came to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 May 2021. I said I was inclined to partially uphold 
Mr Ds complaint. In that provisional decision I said:
This complaint is largely about what was said on a number of calls between Capital One 
and Mr D. Unfortunately, Capital One only keep their call recordings for two years  so 
theyre no longer available and weve not been able to listen to them. So Ive had to 
decide whats most likely to have happened based on a combination of Mr Ds testimony 
and the system notes provided by Capital One. These system notes give very brief 
summaries of most of the phone calls  but not much detail. Whilst I appreciate Mr D has 
disputed the content of some of these system notes, I find many of them quite 
persuasive. They provide quite a bit of detail and were written at the time, whereas Mr Ds 
testimony is his recollections from three years ago.
I can see Mr D had a conversation with Capital One in October 2017. The notes dont say 
anything about what was said during this call  but Capital One followed it up with an 
email about financial difficulties. So I think its likely Mr D did tell Capital One about his 
financial difficulties and possibly his gambling issues, at that time. 
Whilst I havent seen the email that was sent to Mr D, the system notes suggest that this 
asked Mr D to get in touch again if he needed help. But there were no follow up calls or 
emails after this initial conversation and email. There was no evidence of Mr D gambling 
using his credit card. And Mr D continued to make payments against his credit card that 
were generally more than the required minimum payments. Given that Mr D didnt contact 
Capital One again for seven months, I think it was reasonable for Capital One to assume 
that Mr D was managing his finances and didnt need more help at that time.
Mr D stopped making repayments on his credit card in May 2018. He called Capital One 
and it seems that he initially told them that his financial problems were short term. The 
system notes record that Mr D said hed had a delay in his income and that hed pay an 
agreed amount on 4 June 2018, around a week after the minimum payment was due. 
Similarly, on subsequent calls in early June and early July, Mr D appears to have told 
Capital One that he was having issues with his wages but that hed be able to make 
future payments. The notes from 6 July 2018 specifically say that he didnt need a 
payment plan. As I mentioned previously, I find these system notes quite persuasive. I 
think its likely that Mr D was still trying to maintain his credit card in line with the terms at 
this stage.
However, in early August 2018, Mr D spoke to Capital One again. This time the notes 
record that he was in financial difficulties. The notes say he specifically asked for interest 
to be stopped and offered to pay £22 per month for 6 months. Following this call, Capital 
One sent a pack to Mr D and asked him to complete the income and expenditure 
assessment to determine what would be affordable for him.
Mr D says he completed the income and expenditure assessment over the phone. 
Although I cant see this on the system notes it seems likely that he thought hed had 
these sorts of conversations in early August and again in late September. So its possible 
Mr D didnt do things exactly the way Capital One anticipated but its clear that he had 
conversations about what he could afford and about not wanting interest to be charged 
any more. And it appears that Capital One blocked the card on 7 September 2018 which 
aligns with this.
By 6 August 2018, Mr D hadnt paid anything for three months. And hed had several 
conversations with Capital One about why this was. The conversation he had on 6 August 
was at least the second time he told Capital One he was in financial difficulties. He 
suggested a repayment plan and asked for interest to be stopped. Capital One have a 
responsibility to treat customers in financial difficulties with forbearance and 
consideration. Although not mandatory, this would usually include suspending interest 
and charges. So Im inclined to say Capital One should have stopped adding any interest 
or charges to Mr Ds account after this date.
Capital One continued to have conversations with Mr D approximately once a month. 
Each time, payment plans were discussed and Mr D said he would pay certain amounts. 
But he didnt make any payments.
By November 2018, Mr D hadnt made any payments for six months. So Capital One 
issued a default notice, warning him that the account would default and be reported on 
his credit file. Mr D made no further payments and the default was registered on 31 
December 2018. Mr D has complained that he shouldnt have been defaulted while he 
was on a repayment plan. And if a customer is meeting the terms of a repayment plan 
and its more than just a token amount, Id normally agree. However, in this case, Mr D 
hadnt made any payments at all, breaking the terms of each plan that was agreed. So 
although I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed, Im not inclined to ask Capital One to 
remove the default from his credit file  it seems a fair reflection of the situation.Putting things right
As Ive explained above, Im inclined to say Capital One should have stopped adding 
interest and charges to Mr Ds account on 6 August 2018. Im minded to say they should 
rework his account as if these charges hadnt been added. Im aware the account has 
been sold on to a third party. So Capital One will need to arrange with that third party for 
Mr Ds outstanding balance to be recalculated.
Capital One accepted my decision but Mr D didnt. Mr D remains very unhappy about the 
default. In his response to my decision he said he couldnt have made any payments at all, 
not even token payments. He said hed told Capital One this at the time and continued to 
dispute the content of the Capital One system notes.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr Ds so upset about the default. Its clear he was in a very difficult 
position during 2018. And I appreciate he doesnt agree with Capital Ones notes of the 
phone conversations he had with them. However, I cant say it was unfair for Capital One to 
default Mr Ds account. Regardless of what was said on the calls, Mr D didnt make any 
payments at all for over six months despite Capital Ones efforts to set up affordable 
payment plans for him. Because of this, Im satisfied it was fair for Capital One to decide to 
pass the debt to a collection agency and default the account  theyd done what they could 
to try to help Mr D.   
As Capital One have accepted my decision about the refund of interest and charges and 
Mr D hasnt commented on this aspect, my final decision is unchanged from my provisional 
decision.   
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint. Capital One (Europe) plc 
should rework Mr Ds account removing any interest and fees charged since 5 August 2018.      
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman