DRN-3807041
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt refunded the premium for 
her annual travel insurance policy. Shes also unhappy about the delays caused by URV.
Mrs L is being represented by her son, Mr L, on this complaint. 
What happened
On 10 March 2020, Mrs L took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy and 
paid £55.27. The policy expired on 9 March 2021.
Due to the Covid-19 restrictions, Mrs L wasnt able to travel and contacted URVs 
administrator to cancel the policy and refund the premium. The administrator offered 
Mrs L a 50% refund of the premium, but the refund never materialised. There was 
confusion and delays on who was responsible for this complaint, time passed and 
eventually the complaint was made to URV in June 2022 as the underwriter of the 
policy. 
URV looked into the complaint and offered to refund all of the premium to Mrs L. Its 
usual approach is to offer 75% of the premium as a refund but because of the delays 
caused previously by the administrator, as a goodwill gesture, it offered a100% 
refund. Mrs L accepted the offer but further delays in making the payment were 
caused and she is unhappy about this.
The payment was made in October 2022 and a further offer of £25 compensation has 
been made by URV for the delays in making the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see the payment has now been made by URV. As the offer was to refund the full 
£55.27 premium instead of the usual approach to refund 75% of the premium, Im satisfied 
this was fair and reasonable. Theres also no dispute with regards to this refund and Mrs L 
had previously accepted the offer. As such, I wont be commenting further on this issue. 
I will address the delays caused by URV in making the payment and the £25 offer for the 
trouble and upset caused. URV issued a final response and offered £55.27 as the full refund 
of the premium. Both parties agreed to this refund and the complaint was thought to be 
resolved on 19 July 2022. 
Mr L however contacted us first 4 weeks after the resolution agreement to say that they 
hadn't received the payment. Further chasers were sent up until 10 October 2022. I 
understand the payment was made on 24 October 2022 and the reason for the delay was 
given as having incorrect bank details. I note that the correct bank details were provided to 
URV in our investigator's email dated 19 July 2022 so the delay could have been avoided.
While the payment is made by the administrator, it is ultimately URV who is responsible for 
this complaint and the delays that have been caused on this complaint is therefore URV's 
responsibility. So, in the circumstances of this complaint URV has caused delays from July 
2022 until October 2022. Ive considered the length of delay, the confusion caused in who is 
ultimately responsible for making the payment and that URVs offer to refund the full 
premium was more than its usual approach of 75% refund of the premium and more than we 
would expect. Ive considered this carefully and while I agree that URV could have been 
better in the service it provided, I also think overall the offer of £25 is fair and reasonable in 
recognition of that. 
I acknowledge Mr Ls comments that they would accept an offer of £75 or £100 for the 
delays caused by URV in making the payment. I understand but given that URV has paid 
100% of the premium to Mrs L as a gesture of goodwill rather than the required 75% of the 
premium, I think overall the additional £25 offer is fair and reasonable in this case. 
As such, taking everything into account, I think URVs offer to pay £25 as well as the 
additional 25% refund of the premium is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
I require URV to make the payment of £25 compensation to Mrs L. URV must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mrs L accepts my final 
decision if this is what Mrs L decides to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Union Reiseversicherung 
AG.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman