DRN-3129029
The complaint
Mr R complained that Loans 2 Go Limited didnt do proper affordability checks and so lent 
to him irresponsibly and provided a loan that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr R took out a loan with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Date Amount TermTypical 
monthly 
repaymentAPRTotal amount 
repayable
16/12/2016 £500 18 months £113.28* 990.1% £2,039
When Mr R complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that Loans 2 Go shouldnt 
have provided the loan. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld and set out directions 
indicating what Loans 2 Go should do to put things right.  
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, it said a thorough 
affordability assessment was conducted which took into consideration Mr Rs credit 
commitments and all his monthly expenditure and Loans 2 Go only made the decision to 
lend after confirming that the loan would not put Mr R in any financial detriment.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant 
adverse consequences or more money problems for a borrower who is already struggling 
with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive thought about everything and what this means for Mr Rs complaint.
Loans 2 Go asked Mr R about his income and expenses. 
It also did its own credit check to understand Mr Rs credit history and find out what he was 
paying towards his current credit commitments. 
Loans 2 Go looked at his wage slips and verified that Mr Rs minimum monthly pay was 
around £1,599. After reviewing the information it had gathered, Loans 2 Go calculated that 
he would need to spend approximately £1,281 in total each month. It also allowed for a 
buffer of 10% of his verified expenditure to account for any fluctuations in his monthly 
income or expenditure. 
Based on this, Loans 2 Go said Mr R shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment 
on this loan.  
Our investigator didnt think the checks Loans 2 Go carried out were proportionate, but 
I dont need to make any findings on this point because I think Loans 2 Go had already 
gathered information that shouldve prompted it to decline this loan application.
I say this because, like our investigator, I think its fair to say that the credit checks 
Loans 2 Go obtained showed clear signs that Mr R might already be financially over-
stretched and in serious financial difficulty.I agree with Loans 2 Go that it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to 
have a credit history showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these 
things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan 
application.
But I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned to see that when Mr R applied for this 
loan he had recently taken out other costly borrowing and his debt servicing costs to existing 
creditors were already at least £500 per month. 
I think this was already a large portion of his pay to be spending just on repaying debt. By 
the time he needed to pay for this loan as well, this meant he would need to spend more 
than £600 each month on paying credit debts. Like our investigator, I think that this amount 
was such a significant proportion of his take home pay (by my reckoning, significantly more 
than a third), it was a clear indication that Mr R was, in reality, already experiencing financial 
difficulty and maintaining this level of debt was likely to be unsustainable.  
Also, bearing in mind that the loan purpose wasnt stated, I dont think Loans 2 Go wouldve 
had any reason to think that this loan wouldnt simply add to Mr Rs overall indebtedness and 
increase the likelihood of him needing to borrow further. So I dont think Loans 2 Go could 
reasonably have satisfied itself that providing the loan to Mr R wouldnt put him in a worse 
position by increasing his overall debts unsustainably.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to provide the 
loan to Mr R. 
And as he has been further indebted with expensive borrowing that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Loans 2 Go did wrong. 
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that Loans 2 Go should pay any additional redress. Mr R 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Loans 2 Go 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay more than this. 
I understand the loan is repaid so Loans 2 Go should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr R received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr R made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr R having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
Whilst its fair that Mr Rs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend the loan. So Loans 2 
Go should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Rs credit file regarding 
the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman