DRN-1191958
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with how long it took AXA Insurance UK Plc to tell her it wouldnt cover a 
cancellation claim shed made under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S booked a holiday and some time later, took out a Silver Annual Multi Trip policy with 
AXA online. Two days after taking out the policy, she called to make a cancellation claim. 
AXA initially declined Miss S's claim as it said the reason she had given, getting a new job, 
wasn't a valid reason for cancellation.  Miss S then asked the representative what would be 
considered a valid reason. Miss S has said she then reluctantly disclosed the fact her father 
had been accepted for transplant surgery, and she'd also need to cancel the holiday for that 
reason. 
AXA asked Miss S to provide more information to validate her claim. When it looked at these 
documents it realised Miss S had selected for the policy to start on the first day of her trip. 
Because of this, it explained to Miss S she wasn't covered for cancellation before that date.  
It offered Miss S £100 compensation to recognise she should have been told this when she 
first called and for the inconvenience she was put to sending in documentation.
Miss S was unhappy with AXA's response, she didn't feel the compensation was enough. 
She said had she been told sooner, she could have arranged to pass the holiday on to a 
family member so it wasn't wasted.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn't think AXA had done anything wrong. 
She explained she'd checked the policy information and Miss S had selected for the policy to 
start the same day as her holiday, so AXA was correct to decline her claim.  The investigator 
also thought £100 was a fair amount of compensation for the error it made in not telling her 
straight away.
Miss S did not agree with the investigator, she said that even if she was equally to blame, 
fair compensation would be for each party to pay half of the loss.
The case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've looked at the online process Miss S would have gone through when taking out the 
policy. Under the box where Miss S needed to select the start date of her holiday there was 
a warning notice which explained there was no cover for cancellation until the policy start 
date and that she should select 'today's date' if she wanted cover as soon as possible. This 
was especially relevant as Miss S was taking out an annual policy which starts on the date 
selected by a customer. Because of this, I'm satisfied Miss S was made aware that she wouldn't be covered for cancellation before the date she entered and that AXA was correct 
to decline her claim.
What i now need to consider, is if £100 is fair compensation to reflect the trouble and upset 
Miss S was caused by AXA not telling her sooner that she wasn't covered. 
Miss S has said she could have passed her holiday on to a family member for free and 
enquired with the airlines about changing the name on the booking. Miss S hasn't explained 
why that didn't happen in the end, but i don't think that makes a difference to my decision.  
As Miss S herself has recognised, she wouldn't have taken the holiday so would always 
have had an amount of financial loss. Miss S did ultimately cancel the holiday and was given 
a part refund by the holiday provider.
AXA has offered £100 compensation to reflect the inconvenience Miss S was caused by 
being asked to send in documentation and for time it took to realise its mistake. I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss S wasn't covered for the cost of cancelling her holiday so even though she was asked 
to send in documentation, I don't think AXA need to cover the amount she lost on it. AXA did 
delay in telling Miss S she wasn't covered but I think its unlikely this would have changed the 
position she found herself in. She either had the choice to pass the holiday on for free or 
cancel and get a part refund.
My final decision
I don't uphold Miss S's complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman