DRN-2661603
The complaint
Miss B complains that OVO (S) Home Services Limited trading as SSE Home Services 
(SSE) have declined to compensate her for damage that was caused by one of their 
engineers when undertaking a repair.    
     
What happened
Miss B holds a heating cover insurance policy with SSE which covers service and repairs to 
her boiler. 
On 2 June 2020 one of SSEs engineers attended Miss Bs property as she was getting little 
or no hot water from her boiler. 
The boiler was in a cupboard in her daughters room, and due to COVID restrictions, Miss B 
was not in the room when the boiler was being fixed. Miss B says the engineer told her that 
he would need to replace a diaphragm in the boiler. After the visit Miss Bs hot water was 
returned to normal. 
At the end of October Miss B decided to clear out the cupboard where the boiler was 
situated. She discovered that there was water damage to a number of items in the cupboard 
including her daughters foot spa box, some books, and a storage system. 
Miss B says that the water damage was a dirty brown colour and must have been caused 
during the repair as it wasnt there before the repair, and as it has now dried out it cannot be 
from a current leak. She feels that the engineer should have told her at the time so that she 
could have cleaned it up and minimalised the damage. 
Miss B contacted SSE on 3 November 2020 to complain about the damage. SSE told her 
that the engineer no longer worked for them and that the system notes did not record that 
the engineer had replaced any parts. They said that they therefore couldnt say one way or 
another whether the damage had been caused during the repair, but on 10 November 2020 
they offered Miss B a 15% discount on future premiums as a gesture of goodwill. This 
amounted to a discount of £31.90 over the term of the policy. 
Miss B then received a further final response letter on 20 November 2020, signed by the 
Head of Customer Services. This letter says Having reviewed your complaint, we 
acknowledge that we were at fault and can understand why this would have been frustrating 
for you
Miss B thought that this letter accepted liability for the damage, and she contacted Customer 
Services again. They explained that the letter was saying that they were at fault for the level 
of service provided, not admitting liability. 
Miss B was unhappy with this response and brought he complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Bs complaint and didnt think that he could 
fairly say the damage was caused by the engineer.  
Miss B disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
I have decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint, and I will explain why below.
 
In this case I have to decide is whether SSE have acted fairly and reasonably in saying that 
they could not determine whether the engineer caused the leak, and the way they have dealt 
with Miss Bs complaint.  
Miss B says that there was no leak before the repair, so the main question is whether the 
engineer caused a leak from the boiler during the repair. Miss B says that the engineer told 
her that he needed to replace a part on her boiler, but the record of the visit on 3 June 2020 
provided by SSE says call to issues with hw (htg working fine) found both temp stats on 
front of boiler set to minimum so water only getting lukewarm  turned up stat and boiler then 
started getting to a decent temp made customer aware of this and she checked water and is 
happy with the temp.. 
In the absence of any documents supporting a repair which would have needed the boiler to 
be dismantled, I am unable to fairly say that the leak was caused during the repair.  I think 
that it is unlikely that the engineer would complete a report which didnt specify he had 
replaced a part if he had done so, as he would have need to account to his employer for the 
use of any spare parts. I appreciate that Miss B thought that he had told her he needed to 
replace a part, but in the absence of any records to indicate this, I cannot fairly say that he 
did. Miss B did not watch the repair, check it afterwards, or sign the repair form due to 
COVID rules at the time.  
If the only action taken by the engineer was to turn up the temperature on the boiler as 
indicated in his report, then it is unlikely that this caused an escape of water resulting in the 
damage. 
I have also taken account of the fact that Miss B did not discover the damage until 4 months 
after the engineers visit. Although the water damage had dried out, indicating that it wasnt 
recent, the passage of time makes it difficult to pin point exactly when it may have 
happened, or what may have been the cause. 
In view of the above, I dont think SSE have acted unfairly in declining to compensate Miss B 
for the damaged items. They have made an offer of reduction in her policy as a gesture of 
goodwill, and in the circumstances, I think this is a fair outcome.   
In have also looked at the letter dated 20 November 2020 which Miss B says is an 
admission of liability.  I think this letter is unhelpful to Miss B and poorly worded, but I accept 
that SSE clarified their intention when Miss B rang them and so I dont think they have 
misled her.  
I appreciate that Miss B feels strongly about this and that some of the items damaged may 
be irreplaceable. However, ultimately, I can only look at whether SSE have done anything 
wrong, and in this case, I dont think they have.  My final decision
My decision is that OVO (S) Home Services Limited trading as SSE Home Services do not 
need to do anything further.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman