DRN-4367489
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have complained that ReAssure Limited declined Mrs Ms critical illness 
claim.
What happened
The details this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
In summary ReAssure declined Mrs Ms claim as her diagnosis was received after the policy 
matured.
Our investigator didnt conclude ReAssured had done anything wrong. Mrs M appealed. She 
felt that she hadnt been shown any compassion and that at least some level of payment 
should be made as the policy had been in force for 25 years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the file and having done so I agree with the conclusion reached 
by our investigator for the following reasons:
The relevant regulations provide that an insurer must not unreasonably reject a claim 
so Ive looked carefully at the circumstances here to see if that regulation was 
breached and if the rejection of the claim was unfair.
It is not in dispute that the policy matured on 21 May 2022. Benefits ended on that 
date. Mrs M received a diagnosis in July 2022. But she says that this was delayed 
through no fault of her own. I fully accept that she first consulted her GP in January 
2022 with problems shed had since late December 2021. She says that January 
2022 was the start of the investigation which led to her diagnosis. She believes it is 
highly likely that she was suffering from the condition for which she claimed before 
the policy matured. However, the policy provides that entitlement to the sum assured 
arises on proof of contraction and diagnosis of one of the listed illnesses. I dont find 
that is an unfair term. As there was no diagnosis until investigations were complete in 
July 2022, I cant say that ReAssure treated Mrs M unfairly in declining her claim as 
her policy had ended by that time.
I recognise that Mrs M and Mr M will be disappointed by my decision, and Im sorry 
that it doesnt bring more welcome news.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman