DRN-3210562
The complaint
Ms I is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) cancelled her buildings 
insurance policy and refused to pay her claim for fire damage to her home. A loss assessor 
handled Ms Is claim on her behalf but, for ease, Ill refer only to Ms I throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Ms I made a claim under her buildings policy after a fire caused significant damage to her 
flat. Lloyds didnt think the property had been occupied, so it cancelled the policy and 
declined the claim. Although Ms I provided numerous documents to try to show she lived 
there, Lloyds didnt accept that they demonstrated occupancy. 
Ms I complained to Lloyds and she provided further documents as evidence of living at the 
insured address. But Lloyds didnt think anything she provided proved that she lived there, 
whereas it had several documents indicating she lived at another address. 
Lloyds said that at each renewal Ms I was asked to confirm that all information remained the 
same as that provided when she first took out the policy. And that she should notify it of any 
change in circumstances. Lloyds said that if Ms I had declared that the property would be 
unoccupied, it wouldve only continued to provide cover for a maximum of 12 months, at an 
additional premium and with additional terms. If the property remained unoccupied after that, 
it wouldve declined to offer cover. As Ms I hadnt let Lloyds know her property was 
unoccupied, it cancelled her policy and said the flat wasnt insured at the time of the fire.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. He explained that the 
evidence Ms I provided only showed occupancy in earlier years or didnt carry sufficient 
weight to ask Lloyds to reconsider its position. Our investigator thought that Lloyds had 
cancelled the policy and declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Ms I didnt agree, so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand this is not the outcome Ms I hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
My role here is to decide whether Lloyds cancelled Ms Is policy and declined her claim in 
line with the terms and conditions, and whether it was fair to do so in the circumstances. I 
wont comment on every piece of information available to me  our rules dont require me to. 
Instead, Ill focus on the information which I think best explains the reasons for my decision.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out or renewing a policy. The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Here, Lloyds thinks Ms I failed to take reasonable care during policy renewals because she 
didnt let it know that her property was unoccupied. As the occupancy status is in dispute, Ill 
address that issue first.
Occupancy status
The fire damage is not disputed, but Lloyds didnt think Ms I was living in the property for 
around 3 to 4 years before the fire. Ive looked at the information it relied on to reach this 
decision.
Ms Is driving licence was updated to show a different address
Council tax bills showed a different correspondence address.
Utility bills were registered to the commercial space below the flat, and werent in Ms 
Is name.
Utility bills showed little to no energy consumption for the years leading up to the 
claim.
Credit reference information showed no activity at the insured address since 2017, 
but had a linked address the same as that on the driving licence.
Ms I wasnt recorded on the electoral register after 2017. 
Ms Is bank confirmed shed changed her address.
As its a legal requirement to keep some of these documents up to date with a current 
address, I can see why Lloyds relied on them as evidence that Ms I didnt live at the insured 
address for a few years before the fire in 2020.
Looking to Ms Is evidence of occupancy, I see she provided confirmation of her status as 
carer for family members and that her registered address was the insured address. I accept 
that, but I cant reasonably say that Lloyds shouldve given more weight to her personal 
records than those of the legal required documents.
Ms I explained that she changed her correspondence address for the documents Lloyds 
relied upon because post went missing. And she pointed out that she continued to pay 
council tax, showing she lived in the property. Lloyds provided Ms I with evidence that 
council tax must be paid regardless of occupancy, so I cant agree that continuing to pay bills 
for the property she owned proves occupancy.
Ive looked at the photos of the property after the fire damage, which show some furniture 
and possessions still there. But Ms I still owns the property, and she confirmed she moved 
into a family members home during the pandemic, so I think it was reasonable that Lloyds 
didnt think the presence of some furniture proved anything one way or the other.
That brings me to Ms Is explanation that she didnt move back into her flat because she was 
following government rules and Lloyds didnt require notification of that. I understand Lloyds made exceptions to its unoccupancy policy where customers couldnt return home in 
exceptional circumstances due to government rules. However, I dont think its reasonable to 
rely on Lloyds relaxed policy rules for a pandemic which didnt happen until two years after 
the evidence shows Ms I moved out.
On balance, Im satisfied that Lloyds provided far more persuasive evidence to show that Ms 
I didnt live at the insured address for 3 to 4 years before the fire. 
Policy cancellation
Ill turn, now, to the issue of whether it was reasonable for Lloyds to cancel the policy and 
refuse to pay Ms Is claim.
Ive looked at the policy renewal documents to see whether Ms Is responsibilities were 
clearly set out. On the first page, Lloyds states:
Before you renew, you'll need to:
Let us know if anything has changed by checking the information you've given us 
on your Insurance Statement enclosed. If inaccurate it could invalidate your 
insurance or affect future claims. We also need to know about any changes while 
you hold a policy with us For a full list of things we need to hear about, please 
go to the 'Changes you must tell us about' section of your policy booklet.
This information is repeated on the insurance statement along with the simpler statement:
Failure to provide the correct information could result in:
Your policy becoming invalid and all claims refused
At each renewal, Lloyds confirmed Ms Is responses to the questions it asked when she 
bought the policy. Ms I responded no to the question, Is the home left unoccupied for more 
than 30 days in a row?
Looking at the changes Ms I needed to tell Lloyds about, the Insurance Product Information 
Document within the renewal letter confirms the following:
What are my obligations?
You must tell us if any of the answers you gave to the questions you were asked when 
you took out your policy change during the insurance period such as:
you are going to change address
your home is to become unoccupied
Taking all this into consideration, Im satisfied that Lloyds made it clear to Ms I that she 
needed to inform it of a change in circumstances, and specifically whether she changed 
address or the property became unoccupied. Therefore, its reasonable that Lloyds thought 
Ms I hadnt taken reasonable care to notify it of a change.
Ive gone on to look at whether it wouldve made a difference to the level of cover if Ms I had 
told Lloyds. Lloyds confirmed that if a property became unoccupied for more than 30 days, it 
wouldve continued cover for 12 months. If the property was still unoccupied after those 12 
months, it wouldve declined to offer cover.
Lloyds evidence indicates that Ms I changed her address and the property became 
unoccupied from 2017 and remained so until she made her claim in 2020. Based on the 
underwriting criteria, I think its reasonable to accept that Lloyds wouldnt have offered cover 
beyond 2018, which 12 months after the property became unoccupied. Therefore, Ms Is failure to notify Lloyds of a change in circumstances made a difference to the cover available 
 a qualifying misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA, the options available to Lloyds depend on whether it treats the 
misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless, or careless. Lloyds hasnt said how it treated the 
misrepresentation, but its actions indicate that it treated it as careless. Thats because 
Lloyds confirmed it would refund the premiums to Ms I from the date of cancellation, after 
taking into consideration any claim costs. Thats in line with CIDRA and is more beneficial for 
Ms I than if it had treated the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Therefore, Im 
satisfied that its fair in the circumstances.
In summary, Lloyds provided sufficient evidence to support its view that Ms I moved out of 
the insured address 3 to 4 years before it suffered fire damage. Because of that, it cancelled 
her policy retrospectively in line with CIDRA. So, Lloyds declined the claim because Ms I 
didnt have cover when the fire took place. Im satisfied thats in line with the policy terms 
and conditions and fair in the circumstances, so I see no reason to require Lloyds to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not uphold Ms Is complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman