DRN-3516178
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Society of Lloyds has turned down an End Supplier Failure 
Cover (ESFC) claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs M booked a cruise holiday through a cruise provider Ill call C. 
They were due to travel between 6 January and 6 May 2021. On 10 February 2020, they 
took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker. Most sections of the policy 
were underwritten by an insurer Ill call G. However, ESFC was underwritten by Lloyds.
In June 2020, the cruise holiday was cancelled by C as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
And later that year, C went into administration. Mr and Mrs M tried to recover their losses 
through an industry body, which suggested that they should make a chargeback claim 
through their bank. However, Mr and Mrs Ms bank told them it hadnt been able to recover 
their deposit. So Mr and Mrs M made an ESFC claim on their travel insurance policy.
Lloyds turned down the claim. It said the ESFC section of the policy specifically excluded 
inclusive holiday packages. As it concluded Mr and Mrs Ms cruise had been booked as an 
inclusive package, it said the claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with Lloyds decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged 
that the ESFC section did exclude inclusive holidays from the scope of cover. And she felt 
itd been fair for Lloyds to treat Mr and Mrs Ms booking as a package holiday. So she 
considered Lloyds had treated Mr and Mrs M fairly.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They questioned whether the claim shouldve been treated as a 
cancellation claim rather than as an ESFC claim. They also questioned whether Lloyds and 
the industry body was ripping them off. And they didnt agree that the cruise was a package, 
as some costs, such as excursions and spa treatments, had to be paid on top of the original 
price.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make clear that this decision 
will only look at whether Lloyds assessed the ESFC claim fairly. Lloyds didnt underwrite the 
cancellation section of the policy and so it isnt responsible for considering cancellation 
claims. If Mr and Mrs M now wish to look into making a cancellation claim, theyll need to get 
in touch with the relevant underwriter, G. I make no finding on whether such a claim would 
be successful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I think it was fair for Lloyds to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
Lloyds treated them fairly.
Ive first looked closely at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, as these form 
the basis of their contract with Lloyds. The ESFC section of the policy says Lloyds will pay 
up to £3000 per person for:
Irrecoverable sums paid prior to Financial Failure of the Scheduled Airline, hotel,
train operator including Eurostar, car ferries; villas abroad & cottages in the UK; coach
operator, car or camper hire company, caravan sites, campsites, mobile home, safaris;
excursions; Eurotunnel; theme parks or attractions all known as the End Supplier of
the travel arrangements not forming part of an inclusive holiday prior to departure.. 
(Emphasis added).
Theres no dispute that C, Mr and Mrs Ms cruise provider, went into administration in July 
2020. In essence then, C went into financial failure. This meant it wasnt in a position to pay 
Mr and Mrs M a refund of their deposit costs. Looking closely at the policy terms, I think 
Lloyds has set out a clear list of the types of transport; accommodation and excursions 
which are covered by this section of the policy. I note that whilst car ferries do fall within the 
scope of this cover, cruise ships arent included.
Lloyds concluded that Mr and Mrs Ms claim isnt covered because their cruise holiday 
formed part of an inclusive holiday  commonly called a package. Generally, a package 
holiday would be considered to be a holiday contract that includes two or more travel 
services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. The travel provider is liable 
for the performance of these services.
I think that the policy makes it sufficiently clear that inclusive holidays arent covered by the 
ESFC. And having looked closely at the evidence, I can see that Mr and Mrs Ms transport 
method (the cruise ship), their on-board accommodation; entertainment; food and drink and 
on-board facilities were all included in the overall price they paid. As such, I dont think 
Lloyds acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was booked as an 
inclusive holiday. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M have told us that theyd have had to pay more 
for additional services, like spa-treatments or to access other on-board restaurants. But 
paying for additional costs isnt uncommon on widely booked package or all-inclusive 
holidays and so I dont think I could fairly find this means that Mr and Mrs Ms original 
booking wasnt an inclusive one.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms position, because I appreciate theyve been 
left out of pocket through no fault of their own, I dont think Lloyds treated them unfairly 
when it turned down their claim. I note from the industry bodys letter that it directed them to 
make a chargeback claim, which proved unsuccessful. Its open to them to now get back in 
touch with that industry body with evidence of their unsuccessful chargeback claim if they 
wish to do so for that industry body to further consider.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 Lisa Barham
Ombudsman