DRN-3573206
The complaint
Mr C and Mr N complain that BUPA Insurance Limited unfairly declined their cash plan 
claims. 
What happened
Mr C and Mr N hold a cash plan with BUPA. It allows them to claim money back against a 
variety of medical related costs. 
In 2021 Mr C and Mr N complained. They said some of the claims theyd recently submitted 
had been unfairly declined, BUPA had sent them a confusing text message about the 
reasons for that decline, and they couldnt speak with the cash plan team.
BUPA explained its position on the claims. It said a claim for a hospital stay had been 
declined because there was no hospital discharge form, or the hospital hadnt completed 
and stamped the claim form. A claim for prescription charges had been declined because it 
was missing proof of payment. And although a claim for optical charges had initially been 
held back because the date of treatment was missing, that information had since been 
provided and the claim paid.
BUPA agreed that the text message it sent wasnt clear or correct and explained it was 
working to amend that service. It also said longer than expected call wait times had been 
experienced because of a restructure and higher call volumes. And to recognise the 
confusion and frustration that had been caused it apologised and paid £50 compensation. 
Mr C and Mr N remained unhappy. They said £50 was not enough and didnt think BUPA 
had met its obligations under the cash plan policy. So, they referred their complaint to this 
service and told us theyd provided BUPA with a discharge form and it was putting hurdles in 
place to avoid paying out. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think BUPAs request for 
information was unreasonable and said the action itd already taken to recognise the 
confusion and frustration caused to Mr C and Mr N was fair. 
Mr C and Mr N disagreed and said ample evidence had been provided to show that what 
theyd claimed for had taken place. They said theyd been put in a catch 22 situation and 
referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 not being understood. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Mr N clearly feel very strongly about what has happened. While Ive considered 
everything put forward and thank Mr C and Mr N for taking the time to set out their position, 
my findings will only address those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
I will not be upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidance BUPA has a responsibility to 
handle claims both promptly and fairly, and to not reject them unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions of Mr C and Mr Ns policy set out what a policy holder will 
need to do if making a claim. They say: 
3.1 How to make a claim
a. 
b. Pay for your treatment, goods or services in full and obtain a receipt
c. To make a claim you must send us a fully completed claim form, the 
supporting receipts and additional information
d. You must provide additional information or evidence to support your claim, if 
we make a reasonable request for you to do so
e. 
f. 
g. For hospital in-patient and hospital day-case claims, simply fill in your claim 
form and then get the hospital to stamp it confirming the reasons and length 
or attach your discharge letter. 
The terms and conditions also explain that BUPA will not be able to assess a claim 
without all required information:
4. Payment of claims
a. 
b. 
c. 
d.If we do not have the information we need to assess your claim we will 
contact you to advise the reason(s) why and what information we require. We 
will only be able to assess your claim if all the required information is 
provided.
Mr C and Mr N say they provided ample evidence to show what theyd claimed for 
had taken place but Im not persuaded I can fully agree. I note for example their claim 
for prescription charges didnt contain proof of payment. Mr C and Mr N think it was 
unreasonable of BUPA to expect them to obtain proof of payment because the 
pharmacy was a different department to the hospitals central administration. But its 
for a consumer to show they have a valid claim and I dont think it was unreasonable 
of BUPA to request that Mr C and Mr N demonstrate theyd paid for what they were 
claiming back. 
Mr C and Mr N say expecting them to get their claim form stamped by the hospital 
was unreasonable too  because Mr C was looking after Mr N at the time, or 
because theyd asked but the hospital would not provide a stamp. While I appreciate 
this, it would not be fair of me to hold BUPA responsible for the actions of the hospital 
and Ive already set out that I dont think BUPAs requests were unreasonable.
BUPA appear to have been acting in line with the terms and conditions of the cash plan when it told Mr C and Mr N that it had rejected their claims because of missing 
information. I acknowledge the concerns Mr C and Mr N have about the expectations 
of their policy versus the Consumer Rights Act, but I dont think the policy terms in 
the cash plan were unfair nor the requests made of Mr C and Mr N unreasonable. 
Having said that, I am aware that Mr C and Mr N say theyd provided BUPA with a 
discharge form which should have been sufficient. The evidence made available to 
this service indicates that the discharge form was provided following BUPAs 
complaint response (and I understand this claim has since been processed). But 
even if I were to find that Mr C and Mr N had provided the discharge form to BUPA 
beforehand, Id likely be minded to find that the compensation already paid was a fair 
and proportionate reflection of the inconvenience Mr C and Mr N would have been 
caused by having done so. 
BUPA has issued a written apology, it has provided an explanation, and it has made 
an award of £50 compensation too. Both parties will appreciate compensation is not 
intended to be punitive; it is as I referenced above intended to be a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact of a businesss actions had on someone. Mr C 
and Mr N were understandably confused and frustrated by some of BUPAs actions 
and I think it was right of BUPA to acknowledge that. But while Mr C and Mr N have 
said £50 is not enough, I think the £50 alongside the written apology and the further 
explanation to clarify matters is fair and proportionate in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Mr C and Mr N may be further disappointed, but I will not be directing an 
increase be made on this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman