DRN-3012239
The complaint
Ms S complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) acted irresponsibly 
by granting her loans that were unaffordable. 
What happened
In January 2019, Ms S took out a loan for £1,000 with Likely Loans. The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 months with the repayments set at £79.25 a month.
In August 2019 Likely Loans granted her a second loan. The amount borrowed was £2,000 
to be paid in 24 monthly instalments of £131.05.
In November 2020, Ms S applied for another loan for £5,000, which was approved by Likely 
Loans. She withdrew from the credit agreement a few days later.
In early 2021, Ms S complained that the loans were unaffordable for her. She said no 
financial checks were done. She lost her partner and got into a lot of debt which resulted in 
her having to sell her house to pay it back.
Likely Loans said it had verified Ms Ss income and had reviewed her credit report when she 
applied for the first two loans and had determined they were affordable for her. It hadnt 
looked into the third loan because Ms S had exercised her right to withdraw from the credit 
agreement three days after it started, meaning that she only repaid around £13 in interest.
Ms S remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Ms Ss concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
checks Likely Loans had carried out for the first two loans were reasonable and 
proportionate, and these showed they were affordable at the time. She didnt consider the 
third loan because Ms S had withdrawn from it.
Ms S disagreed with our investigators view. She said she was getting into more and more 
debt as she took out one loan to pay another. She didnt think our investigator had taken into 
account her having to sell her house to pay her debts. She said this was why her debt 
looked low on her credit file. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Likely Loans to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Ms S could afford to repay the loans in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Likely Loans to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Ms S undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for her. 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
As Ms S withdrew from the third loan agreement within days of taking it out and had to pay 
only a small amount of interest, Ive only considered Likely Loans lending decisions for the 
first two loans.
Likely Loans gathered some information from Ms S before approving the loans. It asked her 
about her income, housing and expenses. It says it also reviewed Ms Ss credit report as 
part of its credit assessment. Its provided a brief summary of data from the time of Ms Ss 
applications. Its also provided a more detailed credit history from June 2021, which was 
some time after the loan application. It says its used this to cross-reference the extracted 
data to confirm it had obtained the correct information. Although, it believes the information it 
extracted at the point of application is more accurate. So, Ive also reviewed the information 
on the credit file.
In her application for the first loan (in January 2019) Ms S said she was a homeowner and 
employed with a gross annual income of £25,000. She said her monthly expenditure was 
£700. The information Likely Loans gathered from the credit reference agency at the time of 
her application indicated her monthly net income was £1,556. It showed that her existing 
credit commitments were around £290 a month. Her credit file shows that Ms Ss mortgage 
repayments were £471 a month at that time. After taking into account the new loan 
repayment of £79.25 a month, Ms S would have been left with around £715 a month for her 
other living expenses. 
In the second loan application (August 2019), Ms S gave the same information about her 
employment as she had when she applied for the first loan. She said she was a homeowner 
but gave a different residential address to what was on her previous application. Likely 
Loans verified her monthly net income to be £1,569. The information Likely Loans gathered 
from the credit reference agency indicated that her credit commitments were around £282 a 
month. The credit file shows her mortgage was still £471 a month. After taking into account 
the new monthly loan repayment of £131.05, Ms S would have been left with around £685 
for her other expenses.
I think the checks Likely Loans did were proportionate for the type and level of borrowing   
Ms S applied for. The repayments for both loans appeared affordable, based on the 
information gathered. I also havent seen anything that I think should have prompted Likely 
Loans to carry out further checks (for example recent defaults or county court judgments).
Ms S says her debt looked low on her credit file because she sold her house to pay off her 
debts. But her credit file shows Ms Ss mortgage was settled in December 2019. So, her 
house sale appears to have happened after she took out the first two loans.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Ms S, but I can only uphold a complaint if I 
think a business has done something wrong. And for the reasons Ive explained, I think 
Likely Loans lending decisions were fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman