DRN-3043417
The complaint
Mr P complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) closed his account having 
failed to explain properly why it wouldnt accept a power of attorney he wanted registering. 
Mr P says First Direct discriminated against him based on his mental health when it did so, 
breached the Equality Act 2010 and caused him significant distress and expense. 
What happened
Mr P had an account with First Direct.
Mr P wanted to register a lasting power of attorney on his account but says First Direct 
refused to accept it. First Direct says it needed additional information about Mr Ps attorney 
before it could register the lasting power of attorney. Mr P complained to First Direct about 
its approach to registering lasting powers of attorney and then he complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and said that they didnt think First 
Direct had acted unfairly. Mr P didnt agree, so an ombudsman considered their complaint 
and issued a Final Decision. In that Final Decision the ombudsman said that they didnt think 
First Direct had acted unfairly in the way it had approached registering the lasting power of 
attorney. They did, however, think that First Direct could have been more specific about its 
requirements when it had been challenged by Mr P and that it could have explained in more 
detail why it was requesting the information it was. Mr P didnt accept the ombudsmans 
Final Decision, meaning it isnt binding on either party.
Following the ombudsmans Final Decision, Mr P complained to us that First Direct had 
closed his account. He said that this was a new complaint as his previous complaint had 
been about First Direct refusing to accept his power of attorney.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps second complaint and said that we could 
consider it as the ombudsmans Final Decision didnt deal with whether First Directs 
decision to close Mr Ps account was unfair. Our investigator subsequently said that they 
thought First Direct had treated Mr P unfairly, and that it should pay him £500 in 
compensation. First Direct disagreed, saying that Mr P had been abusive to its staff and that 
it was entitled to close his account. So, Ive been asked to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct told Mr P that it had to ask for his attorneys details before it could register a 
power of attorney because of money laundering regulations. I agree with the ombudsman 
who looked at Mr Ps first complaint that First Direct:
(a) could have been more specific about its requirements when registering a lasting 
power of attorney; and
(b) could have explained in more detail why it was requesting the information it was. 
Had it done so, theres a good chance that Mr P wouldnt have asked First Direct where in 
the money laundering regulations it says that First Direct has to ask for an attorneys details 
before it can register a power of attorney. Unfortunately, First Direct didnt. On 24 April Mr P 
called First Direct asking for a better explanation.
First Direct accepts that the call on 24 April wasnt handled as well as it could have been. 
The member of staff who took the call couldnt say where in the money laundering 
regulations it says that First Direct should ask for details about an attorney before registering 
a power of attorney  he wouldnt have been able to do because the money laundering 
regulations dont say that. Nor would he escalate Mr Ps complaint to a manager, or arrange 
a call back, saying that the manager would tell him the same thing. Mr P got angry and 
started shouting at the member of staff who abruptly terminated the call. The member of staff 
should have given Mr P a warning before doing so  First Direct accepts this. But I can see 
why First Direct was unhappy with Mr Ps reaction. Ive listened to the call and it was 
uncomfortable doing so given the language Mr P used and his tone.
On 26 April a manager called Mr P about the call that hed had two days earlier and his 
wider complaint. The manager agreed that the earlier call hadnt gone well. Having done so, 
the manager and Mr P spent much of the call talking about where in the money laundering 
regulations it says that First Direct should ask for details about an attorney before registering 
a power of attorney. The manager eventually explained that the money laundering 
regulations dont say this, and that a policy First Direct has put in place in order to comply 
with money laundering regulations, amongst other things, does. Mr Ps response to this was 
to say that the manager had admitted First Direct was making things up as it was going 
along. The call ought to have come to a natural end shortly afterwards as the manager made 
it clear that the next step was for Mr P to complain to us. Instead Mr P said that he wanted to 
make a complaint about something else, namely First Direct breaching Data Protection laws, 
a complaint he wouldnt then expand on. The manager said that this was something Mr P 
needed to take up with us. At that point, Mr P used a phrase thats widely regarded as 
strongly offensive followed by a phrase containing two of the most offensive swear words in 
use. His tone and delivery  he was shouting and angry  added to the unacceptable nature 
of what he said.
Mr P has admitted that he lost control during the second call. Ive also listened to the 
second call, and it was extremely uncomfortable doing so. I agree with First Direct that its 
staff shouldnt be subjected to this type of language, particularly delivered the way it was. 
And I agree that the manager was right to terminate the call  shed already given a warning 
about Mr P shouting. Equally, I accept the evidence weve received that these calls had a 
significant impact on Mr P. It would have been better had the relationship not got to this 
point. First Direct could have done more earlier on to answer Mr Ps questions about why it 
needed the information it did, and Mr P could have come to us rather than continuing to 
complain to First Direct. So, I agree with our investigator that First Direct could have handled this better earlier on and avoided either the second call entirely or the second call ending the 
way it did, and that Mr P has been caused avoidable distress, and that the award 
recommended is appropriate. The parties no longer have a banking relationship, and I dont 
think thats a bad thing.
  
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that First Direct treated Mr P unfairly, and that it should pay him 
£500 in compensation. But that doesnt mean I think the language used was acceptable. 
Quite the opposite  the language used was completely unacceptable.
My final decision
My Final Decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr P £500 in full and final 
settlement of his complaint.
v
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman