DRN-4415809
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Allied International Credit (UK) Ltd (AIC for short) repeatedly 
called him outside of the hours he asked them to.
What happened
Mr H asked AIC to only call him from 9am onwards. But it continued to call him before 9am.
Mr H complained, and AIC accepts it did not raise this as a complaint when it should have. It 
apologised for that, but insisted it had called Mr H at reasonable times.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint, proposing that 
AIC pay Mr H £50 compensation and no longer call him before 9am. Mr H accepted this. AIC 
didnt reply, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While AIC may have been allowed to contact Mr H generally, and while there may not have 
been a specific prohibition for it to call him at the times it did, it should fairly and reasonably 
have respected his reasonable preferences.
Mr H asked AIC to only contact him from 9am onwards, and this seems like a reasonable 
request. It would not have been difficult for AIC to comply.
But AIC continued to call Mr H before 9am, repeatedly. This was not reasonable behaviour 
in these circumstances.
AIC also accepts that it failed to initially raise Mr Hs complaint when it should have, which 
delayed things.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell it to pay compensation, to recognise its 
mistake and the impact it had. Here, AICs errors were small, but did cause Mr H some real 
frustration. Taking into account the impact this had and our guidelines for compensation, 
I agree with our investigator that £50 compensation would be fair to put things right here.
From now on, AIC should only call Mr H from 9am onwards, as well as following all the other 
guidelines about reasonable contact. I understand Mr H would like AIC to stop contacting 
him altogether, but as I noted before, it is generally allowed to contact him as part of 
handling his account. So I cant tell it to stop all contact across the board.
Putting things right
I direct Allied International Credit (UK) Ltd to pay Mr H £50 compensation, and to only phone 
him from 9am onwards.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint, and direct Allied International 
Credit (UK) Ltd to put things right in the way I set out above. 
If Mr H accepts the final decision, Allied International Credit (UK) Ltd must pay him the 
compensation within 28 days of the date our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman