DRN-2840524
The complaint
Mr G complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) unfairly declined a 
claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive only summarised events.
Mr G took out pet insurance for his dog with UKI in June 2018 and renewed the policy 
in 2019.
Mr G says his dog became lame after jumping off something and took it to the vets in 
February 2020.
Surgery was required to repair a cruciate ligament rupture, and this was carried out in 
April 2020 and a claim was made under the policy.
UKI declined the claim as they believed the rupture was due to a pre-existing 
condition and therefore excluded under the policy.
 Mr Gs vets acknowledged that there had been a history of patella luxation but that 
the surgery related to a cruciate rupture.
UKI maintain that the dogs clinical history showed degrees of cruciate instability, 
indicating the dog was suffering from a degenerative condition which was the primary 
cause of the rupture. And that if the rupture had occurred due to an injury itd expect it 
to be as a result of a significant event such as a road traffic accident, not jumping off 
something. 
Our investigator ultimately came to the view that UKI hadnt acted unfairly in declining 
the claim.
Mr G remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and broadly for the same reasons, so Im 
not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Based on the evidence available our investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong 
in declining the claim. Mr G disagreed and intended to obtain a report from his vets providing 
further testimony, but nothing has been received yet.
The policy says it wont cover:-
1. any claim for or in connection with any illness arising during the first 14 days of your 
pet being covered.
2. any claims in connection with or arising from any pre-existing condition.
And within the policy terms it defines a pre-existing condition as:- 
Any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury or illness, that happen or exist in any form 
before the pet was covered by this insurance.
The dogs clinical history shows luxating patella has been ongoing for several years with 
notes from September 2014 stating the dog has bilaterally luxating patella  not seeming to 
bother her  advise may be necessary to operate at some stage. In September 2017 the 
condition is described as grade 1. More recently there is a clinical note dated 27 January 
2020 indicating a grade 2 luxating patella and arthritis.
A further consultation took place on 27 February 2020. The notes indicate the dog had been 
lame for 2 days since jumping off something and it was worse but now seems much better. 
Treatment progressed and x-rays were taken followed by surgery in April. And a claim was 
submitted for treatment of luxating patella between 27 January 2020 and 21 April 2020. 
The claim was declined due to the pre-existing history of luxating patella. The claim was then 
resubmitted advising the issue had been a cruciate rupture. And Ive seen the clinical notes 
indicating treatment for this rupture. UKI maintain the conditions are linked and declined the 
claim. It also pointed out that the start date of the treatment was prior to any indication of an 
injury.
UKI have provided testimony that the rupture is a secondary complication to the underlying 
condition, and that the luxating patella has led to cruciate degeneration and rupture. It has 
said had an injury caused the rupture it wouldve been significant traumatic incident such as 
a road traffic accident, and that jumping off something wouldnt have ruptured a healthy 
ligament. Im more persuaded by this and Ive not seen any compelling evidence or 
testimony that there was an incident that would cause a rupture if there wasnt a pre-existing 
issue.
In a call with UKI Mr Gs vet doesnt dispute the conditions are linked. UKI maintained the 
rupture was exacerbated by the underlying luxating patella and was therefore excluded as a 
pre-existing condition. It told her if she gets anything from the specialist surgeon it can look 
at it again. Ive seen that since this call the vet has sent an email to Mr G saying that whilst it 
is possible that luxating patella can lead to cruciate disease in this case there was no 
evidence of cruciate disease until February 2020 when she suddenly went lame. But Im 
more persuaded by what I heard in the call than this email.
On balance I find UKIs testimony more compelling and Im satisfied the injury exacerbated 
an underlying condition and wasnt the primary cause of the rupture. In the circumstances of 
this complaint I find that UKI acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. And its fair 
and reasonable for it to have declined the claim. 
In the event that a further report suggests the ruptured cruciate isnt caused by a pre-existing 
condition then Mr G should provide a copy to UKI and it should deal with it as a new 
complaint point. And Id expect UKI to fully consider it. 
My final decision
For the reasons above Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman