DRN-2978965
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about the way Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) has treated him when 
he applied for a mortgage 
What happened
Mr S started the process of applying for a mortgage in the summer of 2020. He found a 
property, and YBS told him how much it was prepared to lend based on his income and 
other things. One of the requirements was that a satisfactory valuation was carried out. 
Once the valuation was completed, YBS said the property didnt meet its criteria for lending, 
and the application didnt progress. 
Mr S complained  he said hed incurred legal fees unnecessarily, and had moved money 
from abroad which hed had to pay tax on. He thought YBS should make it clear on the 
application form that the sort of property he wanted to buy wasnt one YBS would provide a 
mortgage for. He also said YBS made serious errors when it communicated with him.
YBS acknowledged it hadnt communicated very well with Mr S and offered him £265 
compensation for this. But it didnt think it had done anything else wrong, and that it had 
been Mr Ss choice to incur costs and move money from abroad.
Mr S asked us to review his complaint. Our investigator thought YBS had done enough. He 
said it had recognised its failings around communication and the offered compensation was 
fair. He didnt think it was reasonable to ask YBS to change its application processes to take 
into account all the issues that might arise following a valuation  and in particular any 
lending restrictions that might apply.
 
Mr S remains unhappy so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, as I think YBS offer of £265 compensation is fair. Ill 
explain why I think this is so.
Mr S had whats called an agreement in principle from YBS. That effectively says how 
much YBS would lend Mr S  subject to a full application, which would include things like a 
formal valuation of the property amongst other things. It isnt a commitment to lend  that 
only arises when a full mortgage offer is issued.
When the valuation was carried out, it became apparent that the property Mr S wanted to 
buy could only be occupied by people over a certain age. YBS said it wouldnt lend on such 
a property. Its shared its internal guidance on this and I can see that YBS has followed this 
guidance. I dont think thats an unfair thing for it to do, as all lenders set their own criteria for 
lending.
Mr S says YBS should have told him about this particular criteria at the beginning of the 
application process. I dont think this is a reasonable expectation. YBS doesnt know what 
type of property it might be asked to lend on, and indeed that can change through the 
process. I wouldnt expect it to list all the exceptions that might make lending difficult.
I understand why Mr S decided to instruct a solicitor and arrange for his money to be 
transferred to the UK. But I also think that was his choice  YBS hadnt asked him to do that. 
So I think any costs he incurred were because of his decisions. 
YBS did make mistakes in the way it communicated with Mr S. Its acknowledged this and 
offered some compensation for this. The overall effect was to delay (by about four weeks) 
telling Mr S YBS couldnt lend on the property he wanted. I think the compensation offered 
fairly reflects the inconvenience this will have caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it with Mr S whether he wishes to 
accept the offered compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman