DRN-2510533
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about a life insurance policy sold to them in 1989 by Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada.
Mr and Mrs B are being represented in their complaint by a claims management company. 
For ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mr and Mrs B.
What happened
In 1989 Mr and Mrs B were sold a Designer whole of life policy by Sun Life. This policy 
provided life and permanent and total disability cover of £75,000 each, along with critical 
illness cover for £30,000. The plan was surrendered in 1996.
In early 2020 Mr and Mrs B complained to Sun Life saying the policy had been mis-sold.
Sun Life looked into the particulars of the complaint, as well as the sale overall, and thought 
the sale of the policy was suitable. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so brought their complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators considered all of the evidence and thought the recommendation 
wasnt unreasonable. They thought Mr and Mrs B had a want for protection and that the 
documents from the time explained how the policy worked. Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy 
so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale took place over 30 years ago so unsurprisingly theres a limited amount of 
information available. And of course I wasnt party to the conversation between Sun Life and 
Mr and Mrs B. So I must base my decision using the available evidence on the balance of 
probabilities as to what I think was most likely to have happened. 
At the time of the sale the advisor conducted a full fact find taking into account the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs B. This included details of income, age, existing policies and 
the financial situation at the time. I think this shows that there was a want for cover in the 
event of death and disability, and the recommended policy covers that need.
The policy sold to Mr and Mrs B was flexible with benefits and premiums that auto increase, 
but it also allows other changes. Mr and Mrs B used this flexibility when decreasing 
premiums and taking a premium holiday. These features are available on this type of policy 
but are not usual on a term policy. So I dont think this makes this policy unsuitable for their 
needs.
The policy pays out on the first death of either Mr and Mrs B. This means that the remaining 
spouse is left financially secure. Mr and Mrs B were in their mid 20s at the time and, 
providing the premiums were paid, the policy would protect them for the rest of their lives.
Mr and Mrs B said they didnt need the cover as they already had a policy in place to protect 
their mortgage. Whilst its true that specific mortgage cover was already in place, that 
doesnt make extra cover unsuitable. This policy met Mr and Mrs Bs priority to provide cover 
for each other in the event of death or disability, which was the recorded need at the time. 
The cover for the mortgage had a specific term and was to used for the purpose of repaying 
the mortgage in the event of the death of either Mr and Mrs B. This policy provided life long 
cover to financially protect the surviving spouse. 
At the time of the sale Sun Life didnt offer standalone critical illness policies. So even if I 
thought that there was no need for extra life cover, it wasnt possible to get the critical illness 
cover without taking a life element. But as Ive explained above, Im happy the life element 
was suitable. Also Sun Life have explained that a combined policy would typically be 
cheaper than two stand-alone policies if they were available. 
Ive not seen any evidence the policy was unaffordable at the time of sale with a monthly 
premium of £40. Mr and Mrs B were on low incomes at the time, however from what Ive 
seen the policy was affordable and it provided the cover they wanted.
Mr and Mrs B told our investigator the policy was unaffordable and this meant they had to 
take a payment holiday which was indicative of them struggling to pay. On their complaint 
form Mr and Mrs B told us that they took a payment holiday due to unemployment. Once 
employment resumed Mr and Mrs B say they still felt the strain of paying the premiums so 
surrendered the policy. Circumstances do change over time that might make the premiums 
unaffordable, which is what seems to have happened here, but that doesnt mean it was 
unsuitable or unaffordable when it was sold.
It was of course possible, due to the nature of the policy, that premiums could increase in the 
future. However because the policy was cancelled before any increases took place Im 
unable to say what these increases might have been. 
The policy provided life and permanent and total disability cover of £75,000 each, along with 
critical illness cover for £30,000. Mr and Mrs B were both low income earners so whilst those 
amounts at first glance might seem high, I think they were justified. This policy provided the 
benefit of extra financial security for the remaining spouse over and above the mortgage 
being repaid. Mr and Mrs B were provided with copies of the policy documents showing the 
benefit amounts. If they thought they were too high, or not what was discussed with the 
advisor, they couldve questioned it. But Ive seen no evidence this happened.
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs B say they were young, fit and healthy with no pre-
existing medical conditions so they didnt need the critical illness or disability element of the 
policy. I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs B were indeed young, fit and healthy at the time. 
However this policy provides cover for unforeseen things that might happen in the future, for 
the whole of their lives. So I think the policy was suitable to cover events that might happen 
in the future and this fits the need recorded at the time on the fact find.
Mrs B has said that her employer at the time provided a death in service benefit so she didnt 
need extra cover. The benefit Mrs B had at the time was linked to her employer. This means 
that should she leave her employer that cover would cease. Its also possible that her 
employer might remove that benefit. So whilst there might have been employee cover in 
place this wasnt guaranteed to last whereas the policy she was sold was for the whole of 
her life. 
Mr and Mrs B say they werent aware that some of the premiums were being invested and 
not put into a savings plan. Looking at the documentation from the time I think the application, schedule, brochure and illustration along with the terms and conditions make 
clear there is an investment element to the plan. So whilst I cant say for certain what was 
discussed at the time, and I wouldve expected the advisor to explain the details of the 
policy, Im satisfied the documentation shows this is a unit linked investment fund and 
explains how it works. 
Mr and Mrs B also say they didnt need the policy to cover inheritance tax. Ive seen no 
evidence that this policy was set up to cover inheritance tax, nor that the issue was 
discussed. 
Another concern of Mr and Mrs B is that a whole of life policy wasnt right for them as they 
only wanted to protect their family and dependents up until their point of independence, or 
until their mortgage was paid off. Ive explained above that this policy wasnt linked to a 
mortgage, and evidence from the time shows that Mr and Mrs B didnt have any dependents. 
Ive also said why I think the extra cover above the existing mortgage policy met their 
recorded needs at the time.
The policy provided the cover for death and disability which the fact find from the time of the 
sale recorded as being important to Mr and Mrs B. The policy provided long term flexible 
cover and having considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied the sale was suitable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman