DRN-3589852
The complaint
Mr P has complained he took out a credit card with Capital One which he couldnt afford, and
it subsequently defaulted. Since that, Capital One have lent him a further two credit cards.
He feels this has trapped him in a cycle of debt which he couldnt afford.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case, because I intended to come to a different 
outcome to our Investigator. I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond with 
anything else they wanted me to consider before I came to my final decision on the matter. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
Mr P applied for the first account in April 2009, and a credit limit of £500 was given. Mr P
declared on the application he was working as a Sales Manager with a salary of £23,500.
The checks Capital One did showed Mr P had outstanding debt elsewhere of £1633. But
they also showed he had four defaults from 2006 totalling £55,465.
In September 2011 Mr P defaulted on the account  a letter was sent to Mr P to inform him
he owed £649.43, which was repayable on demand and Capital One might sell the account
to a debt collections agency.
In May 2019, Mr P applied for another card with Capital One. On this application he declared
he was still in the same job but had a salary of £30,000.
Capital One said in their final response letter that the checks they did for this account didnt
show anything concerning. They said most of the other lending he had was in good order
and there were no visible defaults. And so, they decided to grant him a low limit of £200
which Mr P has maintained and often exceeded the minimum repayments.
The final card was applied for in December 2019. This time Mr P said his salary was
£37,900, again in the same role.
Again, for this application, Capital One said nothing was concerning on the checks they did.
So, they decided to give him a limit of £500.
Capital One say theyre comfortable the checks they carried out were appropriate, as were
their decisions to lend to him. They reminded Mr P to make payments to both open accounts
in the final response letter.
Our investigator looked into this for Mr P. They found that Capital One carried out
reasonable and proportionate checks as the limits given were low. They said all the other
credit accounts were in good order and the previous default with Capital One was eight
years ago, so the Investigator didnt think that Capital One had done anything wrong when it
agreed to lend to him.
Mr P didnt agree. He felt the investigator saying all other accounts were in good order
proves that Capital One ignored information available to them. The original default should
have been an indicator of his financial standing and Mr P and his representative felt the
investigator misinterpreted the CONC rules referred to in the view.
Because Mr P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we approach irresponsible and unaffordable lending complaints on our
website, but I will go over this below so all parties are clear on what Ive considered.
Capital One needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
they needed to do reasonable and proportionate checks when lending to ensure that the
credit was affordable and sustainable for Mr P.
Card issued in 2009 (Card 1)
This first application predates the regulation of consumer credit transferring to the Financial
Conduct Authority and the rules it set out in CONC, which the representative has referred to.
The card was provided during the period where consumer credit was overseen by the Office
of Fair Trading. The standards in place at the time required Capital One to assess whether
Mr P would be able to repay what it was lending him.
So, the first question I need to consider is whether Capital One did fairly and reasonably
assess whether Mr P would be able to repay £500 within a reasonable period of time. They
were expected to do this by considering information from credit reference agencies and at
least one of Mr Ps income and financial commitments, how he handled his finances in the
past, or internal credit scoring techniques.
Capital One were giving Mr P a modest credit limit of £500. And it looks like Mr P provided
information about his income and the credit search provided an indication of his financial
commitments. Im satisfied that this was enough based on the standards and expectations at
the time.
The next question for me to consider, now that Im satisfied with the checks is, did Capital
One make a fair lending decision bearing in mind the information it gathered and what the
lender knew about Mr Ps circumstances?
I can see the credit search showed four defaults totalling £55,465 three years prior (2006),
as well as current outstanding debts. I think there were questions about Mr Ps financial
circumstances and whether he could take on an additional commitment.
However, due to the passage of time, the issue I face is considering what Capital One is
more likely than not to have found out if had had asked more questions. The way I would
generally assess this is to retrospectively review Mr Ps current account statements. Ive
asked Mr P for these, but hes unable to provide them.
So, while Im satisfied Capital One ought to have asked further questions, the lack of
statements together with the low credit limit provided means theres not enough evidence to
clearly demonstrate that this card was unaffordable.
This means for Card 1 Im not recommending Capital One do anything further.Card issued in May 2019 (Card 2)
For the next two cards, Ill be considering the same questions as I have above. On 1 April
2014, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) took over the regulation of Consumer Credit in
the UK. This is when The CONC Sourcebook was introduced. So, the regulations Ill be
relying on for Card 2 and 3 are different to those than on Card 1.
Similar to Card 1, due to the low limit of £200 being granted to Mr P, Id say that a credit
search here would be reasonable and proportionate.
However, I dont think Capital One made a fair lending decision with the information they
already had available to them. This includes both the information received on the credit
search and the information they held internally about Mr P and his previous account.
Our investigator said that Capital One didnt need to rely on the default on his previous card
because CONC says it doesnt need to go back further than six years. However, this isnt
accurate. CONC 5.2.4 (G) says: A firm should consider these types and sources of
information to use in its creditworthiness assessment and assessment required by CONC
5.2.2R (1), which may, depending on circumstances, include some or all of the following: (a)
its records of previous dealings.
There is no reference to those previous dealings being limited by time constraints. And
based on the information provided in their business file, its clear that Capital One still held
extensive information regarding the management of the first account. This includes
statements that show Mr P using the card for cash withdrawals and gambling transactions,
as well as going over the limit, stopping repayments and ultimately defaulting on the account
in 2011. This debt remained outstanding and was never repaid to Capital One  so its
unclear why Capital One thought that Mr P might be able to take on more credit, when he
still hadnt settled the amount outstanding from the previous card he had.
In addition to this, the credit check Capital One conducted showed late payments on other
active accounts, outstanding balances on utility bills, other credit cards being used up to the
credit limit and multiple payday loans in the months leading up to this credit card being
given.
So, based on the above, I think Capital One irresponsibly lent to Mr P when giving him Card
2.
Card issued in December 2019 (Card 3)
Capital One gave Card 3 to Mr P seven months after giving him Card 2, this time with a
credit limit of £500.
Again, due to the relatively small credit limit given, using a credit search, in certain
circumstances, could be a reasonable and proportionate check. However, Im finding again
that Capital One didnt use the information available to them to make a fair lending decision.
Ive already discussed the information available to Capital One regarding Card 1, so I wont
go over that again. Although the facts remain and Capital One should have used this
information available to them, particularly as theyre now agreeing to lend Mr P more than
the original amount theyd granted him that was never repaid over eight years, and in
addition to the lending on Card 2.
But by this stage Capital One also had the data from Card 2 and how that was being
managed. Again, much like Card 1, a vast majority of the transactions were for gamblingand/or cash withdrawals.
Ive gone on to look at the credit check Capital One completed on Mr P in December 2019.
His overall indebtedness had increased since May 2019 by over £1,000. In between May
and December Mr P had taken out more payday lending. Many of Mr Ps accounts also had
late payment markers registered.
So it follows that I also think Capital One irresponsibly lent to Mr P in December 2019.
Overall and having thought about everything, Im intending to issue a final decision which
finds that Capital One didnt act unfairly when providing Card 1. But they did act unfairly in
providing Cards 2 and 3.
Capital One responded to say that it accepted the findings in the provisional decision and 
didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr P responded with his bank statements from 2009 when the lending decision on Card 1 
took place. After considering the statements carefully, I sent the below reply to Mr P.
Having looked at these carefully, Im not currently minded to uphold the sale of Card 1.
I explained in my provisional decision that Capital One needed to fairly and reasonably 
assess whether Mr P would be able to repay the £500 limit it gave him in a reasonable 
period of time.
Im satisfied Capital One probably shouldve asked Mr P more about his circumstances at 
the time based on the information they received from the credit search.
From looking at Mr Ps statements, I can see he had a regular income, as well as other large 
payments into the account. He wasnt making use of an overdraft on the account and 
seemed, on the face of it, to have enough funds to support his day to day living.
So even if Capital One had done more to check Mr Ps financial situation before agreeing to 
lend to him, I think it likely Capital One would have been satisfied Mr P could repay a credit 
limit of £500 in a sustainable way. And based on what Ive seen so far, Im minded to agree 
that this was a fair lending decision.
I appreciate that Mr P did have some defaulted accounts when he took out this card, but that 
had happened a number of years prior to the sale of this card. Given the relatively low limit 
on Card 1, combined with what I have seen of Mr Ps financial situation at the time (based on 
the statements Ive seen), I dont think it was unfair of Capital One to lend to Mr P on this 
occasion.
Mr P responded to say that given the time thats passed since the sale of this card, hes 
unable to provide anymore evidence to support his view that Card 1 was unaffordable. So he 
said that he accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that both parties accept that Card 2 and Card 3 were lent irresponsibly, and Mr P has 
no further evidence to support his position on Card 1. I see no reason to depart from the 
outcome in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional findings, and subsequent email to Mr P, it is my 
decision that Capital One acted unfairly in providing Mr P with Card 2 and Card 3. However, 
I dont think the lending decision on Card 1 was unfair.   
Because Im upholding part of this complaint, I have set out below what Capital One needs 
to do to put things right for Mr P.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything above, Capital One needs to put things right for Mr P by 
doing the following:
Rework Mr Ps current credit card balances so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to Cards 2 and 3 are removed;
if an outstanding balance (or balances) remains once these adjustments have been 
made Capital One should contact Mr P to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information, regarding the account in 
question, should be removed from the credit file.
AND
If the adjustments result in Mr P having paid Capital One too much, any extra should 
be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr P.
AND
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement .

 HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital One must give Mr P a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. I order Capital One to put 
things right for Mr P by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman