DRN-1708655
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store 
card in 1994. Mr C says that AXA France IARD mis-sold him the PPI.
Mr C took out his store card and PPI with a shop  but AXA has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint. So, I will refer to AXA in my decision. 
background  
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint  but didnt think that the policy had been mis-sold 
to Mr C  and so didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr C disagreed with this  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this in to account when deciding Mr Cs case.
Having looked at all the information available to me, Ive decided that the PPI policy wasnt 
mis-sold to Mr C. I know this will be disappointing for Mr C, so Ill explain the reasons why.
Mr C hasnt said much about what happened when he was sold his store-card and policy in 
1994  but this isnt surprising given how long ago it happened, and I wouldnt expect him to 
remember much about something that happened 26 years ago. 
Our adjudicator thought that the PPI was sold over the phone  but this wasnt correct. The 
PPI was actually sold at the time the store card. And AXA has provided a copy of the 
application form which shows this.
On the application, I can see that the PPI is presented as an optional product, with two 
boxes to either apply for, or decline the policy. The box selecting the PPI has been ticked  
and Mr C has signed the application, agreeing to the information on it. So, I think that AXA 
made it clear that Mr C had a choice in taking the PPI, and that he chose to do so.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mr C, so it didnt need to check if the policy was right for 
him  but it did need to give Mr C the information he needed to decide if he thought it was 
right for him.
Its possible this information wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But as I think Mr C chose 
to take out the policy, it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he wouldve been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limits on the PPI cover  so it couldve been useful for him if something went 
wrong.
From what I know about this type of PPI policy  it was more expensive than some others on 
the market  but it also offered a higher level of cover than most. So, while Ive thought 
about what Mr C has told us about existing cover that he had in place  this policy couldve 
paid out on top of, and for longer than these wouldve lasted for. 
Ive also thought about what Mr C has said about a different store card taken out with the 
same shop that AXA has upheld his complaint about. But this was AXAs decision to do so, 
and the complaint wasnt considered by this service, so I cant comment on why it may have 
chosen to do so  I can only consider this complaint.
other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy - 
Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who
make the rules for financial businesses introduced some new rules and guidance for
businesses to follow when they are looking at PPI complaints. This means
businesses will sometimes need to give consumers back some of the commission paid
on certain PPI policies.
But these rules are about what lenders need to do in cases where the rules apply, so
this doesnt make a difference Mr Cs complaint about AXA as it isnt a lender.
Looking at the final response provided to Mr C about his complaint, it looks like this may 
have already been considered by Mr Cs lender  but the dates he held the store card mean 
that these rules dont apply. 
Mr C may be able to raise a separate complaint with his lender about commission if he 
thinks this is incorrect and hasnt already done so  but the FCA has also introduced a 
deadline for new PPI complaints  including those about commission. So, his lender may not 
consent in to looking at a new complaint. 
If Mr C would like to know more about the FCAs rules, he can also see what theyve said on 
their website at www.fca.org.uk.
 my final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman