DRN-4119923
The complaint
Mr H complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his motor insurance 
policy and declined his claim, after he was involved in an accident causing damage to his car 
and another vehicle. 
Calpe is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Calpe has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Calpe includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In mid-2021 Mr H made a claim under his motor insurance policy with Calpe after he was 
involved in a car accident. 
Calpe decided to avoid Mr Hs policy with effect from its renewal in October 2020. It told     
Mr H this was due to misrepresentation of the risk. It said Mr H had failed to disclose his 
correct risk address upon renewal.
Mr H complained to Calpe, but it maintained its position. It said Mr H had failed to notify it of 
a change of address at policy renewal. It said if Mr H had provided accurate information, 
Calpe would have charged a different premium as different postcodes are subject to varying 
rating factors. It said it believed Mr Hs failure to provide correct details regarding his current 
address when questioned, was a deliberate or reckless act, so it had avoided his policy with 
effect from the policy renewal and retained his premium.
Mr H asked our service to consider his complaint. Calpe didnt respond to multiple requests 
for information from us, so our investigator reached an outcome based on the limited 
information available. She didnt think Mr H had taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. But she didnt agree that Mr Hs misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless. She thought it should be treated as a careless misrepresentation and Calpe should 
proportionately reduce the amount to be paid on the claim. She also recommended that 
Calpe pay Mr H £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Calpe didnt respond to our investigators outcome, so Mr Hs complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 April 2023 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Calpe hasnt provided any information to support its position, despite several requests from 
our service. It hasnt responded to my request for information after the case was passed to 
me for a decision and weve been unable to reach anyone by telephone. Ive decided to 
issue a provisional decision in order to bring this matter to a conclusion. However, it is 
possible that the outcome to Mr Hs complaint may change from what Ive set out in this 
provisional decision if Calpe provides further evidence for me to consider. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Reasonable care
Calpe thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
renewed his policy in October 2020. It says he didnt inform it that he had moved to an 
address in place A to an address in place B in September 2020. 
Mr H has sent us copies of his insurance renewal documents from October 2020. The 
schedule, certificate and statement of insurance show Mr Hs address as being in place A. 
On the statement of insurance it says: Where is the Vehicle Kept Overnight and next to that 
it says Public Highway at (post code of address at place A).
The statement also has an Important Notes sections which says:
IMPORTANT, PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION Failure to disclose all 
material information (i.e. information likely to influence the assessment and acceptance of 
this risk) could invalidate the insurance. If you are in any doubt whether any information is 
material, it should be disclosed. Any false information you provide could invalidate your 
insurance
Im satisfied that the question Calpe asked was clear and unambiguous. It also made Mr H 
aware of the importance of checking that the information he provided was correct.
Mr H says the information on his renewal documents is correct. He says he didnt move from 
place A. He says his wife and son moved from A to B in September because his wife was 
studying in B. Mr H says he came to B to spend some time with them and applied for a 
parking permit to be able to park near where they lived. He says he needed to change the 
registered address of his driving license and vehicle logbook from his address in A to the 
address in B to get the parking permit. However, his main residential address is and always 
has been in A.
In its response to Mr Hs complaint Calpe referred to a statement it says Mr H gave when his 
claim was being investigated in August 2021:I reside at (address in place B)  I am currently renting this property and I have been living 
here for about 11 months, I own my home in (place A) but was working at (workplace in B) 
so rented a (B) address for 12 month.
I havent been provided with Mr Hs signed statement. However, the information next to 
Main Occupation and Business on the statement of insurance supports what Mr H has 
been quoted as saying about his workplace. So, I think Mr H is likely to have said what 
Calpe has quoted him as saying in August 2021. 
Mr H appears to have given conflicting information in his complaint email to Calpe in October 
2021. But I think what Mr H told Calpe in August 2021 is more likely to accurately reflect his 
circumstances when he renewed the policy in October 2020 So I think it was reasonable for 
Calpe to have concluded that Mr Hs car was kept overnight in B, rather than A, and that 
hed made a misrepresentation. 
Qualifying misrepresentation
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies providing the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
Calpe says that if Mr H had shared information about his change of address at policy 
renewal, it would have charged an additional premium as different postcodes are subject to 
varying factors. 
However, Calpe hasnt provided any evidence to support this (e.g. evidence of the loading 
from its underwriting guide or a retrospective quote). So, Im not persuaded from what Ive 
seen so far, that Mr Hs misrepresentation was qualifying. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think it was fair for Calpe to have avoided Mr Hs 
policy. It wasnt entitled to do so as it hasnt shown that Mr Hs misrepresentation was 
qualifying. 
Mr H has told us that his car was written off and he didnt receive any payment from Calpe 
for it. He says Calpe asked him to cover the third party claim, amounting to over £8,000. 
Given the above, I think it would be fair for Calpe to reinstate Mr Hs policy and reconsider 
his claim. It should also deal with the third partys claim.
Mr H has also raised concerns about being charged higher premiums on his subsequent car 
insurance due to the avoidance of his Calpe policy. Calpe should remove any reference the 
policy having been avoided from its records and any central databases. And it should 
provide a letter to Mr H to confirm this has been done, which can be provided to his new 
insurer so they may potentially recalculate his premium based on this.
As this is a provisional decision, its possible that Calpe may yet provide evidence to show 
that Mr H made a qualifying misrepresentation. Calpe hasnt said whether it thinks Mr Hs 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or explained why it thinks it was one of these, 
rather than careless. So, I think its worth saying that Id also need to be persuaded that     
Mr Hs misrepresentation was likely to have been deliberate or reckless to conclude that 
Calpe acted fairly.
I set out what I intended to direct Calpe to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.Responses
Calpe didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr H provided a letter from Calpes agents dated September 2021 which said it had settled 
the third party claim for £8,269. The letter said that Mr H was liable for the full cost of 
settlement of the claim. Mr H said he had paid part of the cost to Calpes agents.
Mr H didnt make any further comments in relation to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any comments in relation to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change the conclusions I reached.
As I am directing Calpe to deal with the claim, the settlement it pays Mr H should include 
reimbursement for any payments Mr H paid Calpes agents in respect of the third party 
claim. It should add 8% per year simple interest from the date(s) Mr H paid Calpes agent 
until the date the settlement is paid.
Putting things right
Calpe should:
Reinstate the policy Mr H took out at renewal in October 2020.
Deal with the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including the third party claim). 
Pay 8% per year simple interest on any settlement it pays to Mr H, from the date of 
loss to the date the settlement is paid.
Subject to reasonable proof, reimburse Mr H for any period he was dually insured if 
this applies. Pay interest on the date of payment to the date of reimbursement at a 
rate of 8% simple interest per year.
Remove any references to the policy having been avoided from its records and any 
central databases.
Provide a letter to Mr H confirming that the policy avoidance has been removed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman