DRN-3435259
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt with 
his request for assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 11 September 2017, Mr F was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. He paid an advance payment of £674 and the agreement was for 
£23,316 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £324.74 and a final payment of 
£11,898.75.
On 3 April 2020, Mr F contacted VWFS to tell them his income had been affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. This was followed by a request to voluntarily terminate (VT) the 
agreement. But there was a shortfall of almost £3,500 that would need to be paid to allow VT 
to happen. On 24 April 2020, Mr F emailed VWFS asking them to put a freeze in my 
account due to covid 19 for at least 3 months. And the April 2020 payment wasnt made.
In a call on 30 April 2020, Mr F asked VWFS about a payment deferral, otherwise known as 
a payment holiday. Which VWFS said they were able to offer. Mr F applied for this on 1 May 
2020, and the application was initially approved. However, because the payment deferral 
requires a customer to keep the car, and Mr F had already applied for a VT, the payment 
deferral was subsequently cancelled. And VWFS sent a default notice in June 2020.
Mr F spoke to VWFS on 30 June 2020, and they told him that if he made a payment by 6 
July 2020, and completed another payment deferral application, they would be able to 
approve a payment deferral to cover the period May to July 2020. Which is what happened.
Mr F complained to VWFS that they agreed for the payment deferral to cover the period April 
to June 2020, and instead they reported arrears for April 2020. Which meant he was only 
offered a higher mortgage interest rate when his existing deal came up for renewal. He also 
complained that he had difficulties getting through to VWFS during the pandemic and, even 
though he returned the car in May 2021, VWFS are saying that he still owes them £250.
VWFS said their service couldve been better, and they offered Mr F £150 compensation. He 
wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said VWFS had acted reasonably by offering Mr F a payment deferral as 
soon as they were able. And she hadnt seen anything to show that VWFS had agreed to 
backdate the payment deferral to April 2020, or that Mr F was declined a lower mortgage 
rate solely because of the missed payment in April 2020.
The investigator also said the £250 VWFS were asking for was arrears on Mr Fs account, 
and she thought the £150 theyd offered was fair and reasonable. So, she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
VWFS agreed with the investigator, but Mr F didnt. So, this matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Ive reviewed VWFSs contact notes, and its clear that Mr F wanted a payment deferral. But 
his requests to VT the agreement in both February and April 2020 meant he wasnt eligible. 
However, VWFS agree to a deferral on 30 June 2020. And they emailed Mr F, confirming 
you will need to pay one monthly payment on 06 July 2020  once this payment has been 
made, the arrears balance will reduce from 3 to 2 months. At this point, once you have paid 
the monthly payment, you will need to re-request the payment deferral. Theres nothing in 
this email that refers to the period for which the deferral would be applied, but the email was 
clear that the deferral would last for three months. 
Mr F has said he expected the payment deferral to cover the period April to June 2020. 
Which means the payment he paid on 6 July 2020 was to cover the July 2020 payment, and 
payments starting again in August 2020.
But VWFS had made it clear the 6 July 2020 payment was to clear arrears, so it follows that 
this wouldve cleared the April 2020 payment, with the deferral being for the period May to 
July 2020. And the payments restarting in August 2020.
But, either way, the effect was exactly the same. And VWFS arranged to remove any arrears 
markers from Mr Fs credit file. VWFS have accepted they couldve done this quicker, and 
they have offered Mr F £150 compensation for this delay. Mr F has said that he had to pay a 
higher interest rate when he renewed his mortgage deal in June 2020, because of the 
arrears thatve been reported. But he hasnt provided anything i.e. a letter from his mortgage 
lender, to show that was the case. As such, Im satisfied that VWFSs offer was fair. And I 
wont be asking them to increase it.
Mr F paid additional payments to VWFS, between September 2020 and April 2021, to repay 
some of the deferred payments. And he VTd the agreement in May 2021.
The agreement Mr F signed clearly says you have a right to end this agreement. To do so 
you should write to the person you make payments to. They will be entitled to the return of 
the goods and to half the total amount payable under this agreement, that is £14,085.14. If 
you have already paid this plus any overdue amounts and have taken reasonable care of the 
goods, you will not have to pay any more.
The deferred payments are classed as overdue payments and, when VWFS wrote to Mr F 
on 1 May 2020, providing a VT quote, they clearly stated he still had these overdue 
payments to pay. These werent paid at the point of VT and, as such, I dont think VWFS 
have acted unreasonably by pursuing Mr F for the outstanding amount. So, I wont be asking 
them to reduce or waive this amount.If the £150 hasnt already been paid, its now for Mr F to decide whether he wants to accept 
this or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman