DRN-1653484
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Western Provident Association Limiteds (WPA) settlement of her  
private health insurance claim. My references to WPA include its agents.
What happened
Mrs B has private health insurance through her husbands group scheme, insured by WPA.
Mrs B contacted WPA as she had a breast lump which needed investigating. She told WPA 
the doctor she wanted to see, who Ill refer to as Dr C, who she said used an integrated 
alternative and conventional medicine approach. Following a GP referral WPA authorised an 
initial consultation with Dr C.
A few months later Mrs B told WPA the lump was malignant and she didnt want standard 
treatment but to have alternative treatment under Dr C. WPA told Mrs B the policy didnt 
cover alternative treatment but said it would look at the treatment plan to see if any of the 
plans elements would be covered.
When WPA reviewed the plan it confirmed to Mrs B the treatment wasnt covered by the 
policy as it was non-established treatment and also the policy didnt cover homeopathic 
remedies. It also confirmed the policy would cover Dr Cs professional fees from the policy
therapy benefit of £1,200 for each policy year. And as a goodwill gesture WPA said it would 
pay for the remedies prescribed by Dr C from the £1,200 therapy benefit just for that policy 
year.
Mrs B complained to us. In summary she said: she told the person who sold the policy that 
she preferred complimentary treatments and was told she could chose her doctor and 
treatments; she knew the treatment was controversial and may not be fully covered but she 
thought WPA would at least pay for the drugs and supplements; she wouldnt have seen 
Dr C if shed known his treatments werent covered by the policy and shed understood he 
was a cancer expert, not a homeopath.
Our investigator explained why she thought WPAs settlement of the claim was fair and that 
Mrs B would need to make a separate complaint about the sale of the policy.
Mrs B disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is only about Mrs Bs complaint about WPAs settlement of her claim. Our 
investigator correctly explained that Mrs Bs concerns about mis-sale of the policy will need 
to be looked at separately.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, I understand this matter is very important to her, but I dont 
uphold her complaint. I have to decide whether WPAs settlement of her claim was fair and 
reasonable, and I think it was. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear that for cancer WPA provides unlimited cover for consultations with 
specialists and active, established investigations and established treatments in the UK for 
cancer.
Specialist is defined by the policy as:
A medical practitioner holding a licence to practise who's name appears on the 
current GMC Specialist Register and is certified as a specialist by the appropriate 
college or speciality body providing a regulatory function.
Dr C is registered with the GMC but not as a specialist as he's not on their specialist register. 
Mrs B says she thought he was a cancer specialist but from the calls and correspondence 
theres no evidence that WPA told her Dr C was a specialist. It didnt recommend Dr C to  
Mrs B, she asked to see him. And when it authorised Mrs B seeing Dr C WPA was clear it 
was doing so under the £1,200 out-patient benefit limit. WPA covered the MRI, ultrasound 
scan and blood test costs which Dr C recommended.
At that time WPA couldnt have known what the treatment plan would be. When Mrs B did 
tell it that her cancer was malignant and what treatment she wanted WPA immediately told 
her the policy didnt cover alternative treatment. But it agreed to look at the treatment plan to 
check if anything would be covered, as was reasonable.
Established treatment is defined the policy as:
Treatment that is considered to be acceptable recognised clinical practice by WPA's 
medical advisors and which falls into one or more of the following categories:
It is approved by NICE for routine use in the NHS;
It is an established clinical practice in the UK, supported by peer reviewed 
published evidence of significant clinical benefit
It involves the use of drugs that are licensed by EMEA for safe use for the stage 
of the condition being treated.
WPAs Chief Medical Officer considered the treatment plan from Dr C and decided, as 
homeopathy doesnt have NICE guidance for the treatment of cancer, homeopathy isnt 
recognised as an active established treatment for cancer. Theres no evidence that either of 
the other two criteria were met. So I think that was a fair and reasonable conclusion for WPA 
to make.
Mrs B says that she thought WPA might have at least covered the supplements and any 
drugs under the treatment plan. But the policy says WPA wont pay for homeopathic 
remedies (for example medicines, lotions, supplements and herbs) or generally outpatient 
drugs or dressings. So WPA doesnt have to cover those items.
Under the policy homeopathy falls under therapy and the policy cover for therapy is £1,200 
each policy year. WPA fairly told Mrs B that was the benefit it would pay under the policy. 
And its goodwill gesture to include the treatment plan remedies in that limit for one policy 
year was also fair as the plan isn't covered by the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman