DRN-3935367
The complaint
Mrs F, Mr F and Miss F (the F family) are unhappy with Arch Insurance (UK) Limiteds (Arch)
handling of a claim made under their commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
The F family own a property which is let out. In July 2021, following a period of high intensity
sudden rainfall, water entered the property via a skylight, and via backing up of the drains,
causing damage. The claim was reported to the insurer of the property, Arch.
Arch appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. However, between the claim being
made in July 2021 and April 2022 when Arch issued their final response, the loss adjuster
changed four times. During this period, the F family received limited communication on what
was happening with their claim, and they had to arrange and fund repairs themselves  to
progress their claim and so the property could be repaired and let out.
The F family complained to Arch about their handling of the claim. This included the lack of
communication, delays and the loss adjuster changing which meant the F family had to
repeatedly provide information that had already previously been provided  and the claim
effectively restarting a number of times. Arch upheld the complaint and offered £500
compensation. The F family remained unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things. He said he could only consider matters up to the date of
Archs final response - 7 April 2022. He recognised the service the F family had received had
been poor, but he said the £500 theyd already been offered for this was reasonable. He
didnt recommend Arch do anything further.
The F family were unhappy with the investigators view of things, so the case was passed to
me to decide.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator. I issued a provisional decision, to give both 
parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator as I think further 
compensation is warranted here. Therefore, Im issuing a provisional decision, to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional findings before I reach my 
final decision.
Firstly, I should explain what Im able to consider as part of this complaint. My 
consideration is limited to what happened between the claim being made in July 
2021, and Arch issuing its final response on 7 April 2022.
I understand the F family are unhappy with Archs continued handing of matters, and 
that there have been further delays in Arch settling their claim after the final response 
was issued. However, as explained by our investigator, if the F family are unhappy 
with matters post the final response of April 2022, theyd need to refer these 
concerns to Arch as a separate complaint, and then back to this service if they 
remain dissatisfied  subject to our usual rules and timescales.
Part of the F familys complaint is that due to the damage to their property, they were 
unable to rent the property out and they say theyve lost income as a result. 
However, Arch is already considering a loss of rent claim under their insurance 
policy. Once Arch has done this, and if the F family are unhappy with whatever 
outcome or settlement they reach, then this would be a separate complaint. As Arch 
hadnt considered or reached a decision on the loss of rent claim as part of the 
previous complaint and final response, I wont be considering that here as part of my 
decision.
The same applies to the claim settlement itself for repairs to the property  which the
F family have had to fund in the interim. At the time of the final response (7 April 
2022), Arch hadnt reached the claim decision on the settlement amount. Once they 
have, and if the F family are unhappy with the settlement offered by Arch, that would 
be part of a separate complaint.
It isnt in dispute the handling of the claim wasnt in line with the F familys reasonable
expectations. This is why Arch offered £500 compensation. However, having 
reviewed matters from when the claim was made up to when the final response was 
issued (in April 2022), I think additional compensation is warranted for the service the 
F family have received.
As both parties are already aware what happened throughout, I dont intend to 
comment on each event, issue or communication between the parties individually. 
Instead, Ill mention some of the key points and events, and what Im minded to 
conclude Arch needs to do to put things right. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to 
either party, instead this reflects the informal nature of this service and my role within 
in. But Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information theyve 
provided when reaching my provisional decision.
Ive looked at the timeline of what happened for the period Im considering and the
communication between both parties. And its clear there were significant avoidable 
delays and poor communication from Arch (and their appointed agents) throughout.
The first loss adjuster was appointed quickly after the claim was made and 
completed their report which was submitted to Arch. But after this, things didnt go 
smoothly or as would have reasonably been expected by the F family.For example, during the period Im considering, the loss adjuster changed four times 
for various reasons. The knock-on effect of that was delays in the claim handling and
progression. This was due to each new adjuster not being made aware of what was
happening from the loss adjuster before. So essentially the claim needed to restart 
each time, with the F family being responsible for explaining everything that had 
happened throughout to each of the new adjusters to bring them up to speed each 
time. But after this was done each time by the F family, the communication again 
broke down and the handling of the claim was left to the F family. This clearly had a 
considerable impact on the claim progressing.
Throughout the period Im considering, the F family contacted each loss adjuster for
updates, to provide information and to outline how they were being impacted by 
having to fund the repairs themselves whilst the claim wasnt being progressed by 
Arch (or their agents). But there were many occasions where no response was 
received for weeks, despite the F family chasing a number of times  and ultimately 
after weeks of no response, a new loss adjuster would be appointed and things 
would effectively need to restart again.
Whilst there were (several) loss adjusters appointed throughout, the repairs werent 
handled or paid for during the claim by Arch or their agents. Due to the service 
received and lack of communication, and the loss adjuster not managing the claim, 
the F family effectively had to deal with their own claim, source, employ and pay for 
the works required to bring the property back to a habitable condition. The F family 
continually made the loss adjusters aware of the considerable financial impact on 
them having to find funds in the interim, and not being able to let out the property 
resulting in a loss of income. This is evident in the emails the F family repeatedly sent 
to Arch outlining how difficult the situation was for them.
It wasnt until around six months into the claim that the loss adjuster suggested an 
interim payment, and despite accepting this and providing bank details (even after 
explaining this was nowhere near the outlay the F family had incurred and the impact 
this was having), as far as Im aware this was never sent to the F family either.
As I say, here Im not considering the actual repair costs, the claim settlement 
amount or loss of rent under the policy, as that was still being considered by Arch at 
the time of the final response  and would form part of a separate complaint if the F 
family are unhappy with it. But I am considering the service, and the impact on the F 
family having to handle (and fund) their own claim up to the point of the final 
response. And having considered everything, I think the distress and inconvenience 
caused over this time was considerable. 
Arch has already offered £500 compensation for the service received, but I dont 
think thats enough for the impact the handling had on the F family up to April 2022. 
Having considered everything, Im minded to conclude this should be increased by a 
further £300 taking the total compensation to £800.
The F family have also raised concerns that as new loss adjusters were unable to 
access previously provided information, their information may not have been stored, 
handled or disposed of securely and could have been lost and accessible elsewhere. 
Whilst I note the F familys concerns here, based on the evidence, I dont think its 
been shown that the information was lost or accessible elsewhere.We arent the regulator of data protection, and if the F family have concerns whether 
Arch (or their agents) are following the relevant rules required of them more widely, 
theyd need to approach the Information Commissioners Office  who is the 
regulator of data protection.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Arch to increase the total 
compensation to £800.
The responses to my provisional decision
Arch responded and agreed with the provisional decision and increased compensation.
The F family responded and said the additional compensation was appreciated and 
accepted. And they said they would submit a new complaint to Arch about the period after 
April 2022 that didnt form part of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions and recommendations I 
reached. Having done so, and as neither party has provided anything which would lead me 
to depart from the provisional decision I reached, my final decision remains the same as my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold the complaint and direct Arch Insurance (UK) Limited to:
Pay the F family a further £300 compensation taking the total amount to £800
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F, Mr F and 
Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman