DRN-2800416
The complaint
Mr W says he hasnt received fair compensation from Utmost Life and Pensions Limited 
(ULP) for the unsuitable advice he received to transfer his deferred occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) benefits into a personal pension.
Mr W is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
FR says Mr W received advice from ULP (trading as Reliance Mutual) in 1992 to transfer 
his deferred OPS benefits into a personal pension plan. He was 52 at the time and had 
accrued 16 years of qualifying service with British Railways up until 1984.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB), 
established an industry-wide review of particular pension business carried out by 
authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was generally known as the 
"Pensions Review". Consumers were invited to have a review  the intention being to 
avoid the need for them to bring complaints later about what had happened.
ULP wrote to Mr W and offered him a review of his pension transfer. He agreed and the 
exercise took place. It wrote to him in February 1997 with the results of the review which 
compared the benefits of his OPS with those projected to be delivered by his personal 
pension plan. The letter set out its conclusion in the following terms:
We have reviewed your case in accordance with the guidelines on the review of personal 
pensions set out by the Personal Investment Authority. I am pleased to be able to tell you 
that we have found no cause for concern in your case as the transfer did not result in a 
financial loss.
As a result we do not propose to review your case further and will close our review file. If 
despite this confirmation you are concerned in any way then please write to us, quoting the 
above reference. We will record those concerns and respond as quickly as possible.
There is no record of Mr W making contact with ULP until he brought his complaint in April 
2020. On his behalf, FR raised several concerns about what had happened in 1992. 
Essentially, it said the original advice to transfer had been unsuitable and that the review of 
that advice in 1997 had been flawed.
FR thought ULP should undertake another review of the original advice Mr W received, and 
this time it should use the latest redress guidelines issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to make sure he was put back into the position hed have been in had he 
not transferred his OPS benefits in 1992.
ULPs response to the complaint was that the original advice for Mr W to transfer his OPS 
had already been reviewed and the matter settled through the Pension Review carried out 
in 1997.
FR referred Mr Ws complaint to this Service. The Investigator didnt uphold his complaint. 
It disagreed with his findings and made the following arguments:
Utmost have failed to provide evidence that they have used the correct assumptions in the 
previous calculation for personal pension costs and discretionary increases for the DB 
scheme benefits. This means they have failed to demonstrate they carried out the 
procedures and calculation in accordance with the applicable regulatory standards.
The FCA's FG17/9 guidance states:
This guidance should also be used to determine appropriate redress where a respondent 
upholds a complaint received after 3 August 2016 about a pension transfer between 29 April 
1988 and 30 June 1994 in circumstances where either: 
9.1. the firm did not review the relevant pension transaction in accordance with the 
regulatory standards or requirements applicable for the review of the transaction at the time.
It is clear, therefore, that Utmost is required to determine appropriate redress using the 
FCA's FG17/9 guidance.
As Mr W didnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, his complaint has 
been passed to me to review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The Pension Review
The Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to 
rectify widespread mis-selling and to put customers back as far as reasonably possible 
into the position they wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The 
financial business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be 
reinstated into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial 
business needed to assess the financial loss and pay a lump sum pension contribution.
Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were 
used in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the 
pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement.
We know now that often the assumed growth rates used in the review calculations didnt 
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits 
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following the Pension Review plus the existing value of a pension would be high enough to 
match the OPS benefits at retirement, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
However, this Service wouldnt ask a firm to re-calculate a consumers loss because the 
compensation previously paid didnt actually make up for what their former pensions 
wouldve been worth now. That would effectively mean re-running the Pension Review. 
So, while FR might be correct that the review in 1997 hasnt ensured Mr W is in the same 
position he wouldve been in but for the transfer of his pension, that doesnt mean I would 
require reassessment of the compensation hes received.
I recognise that many people like Mr W will feel this is unfair. But market conditions that 
werent foreseen when the Pension Review was being undertaken isnt a reason for 
this Service to require settlements made under that process to be undone and 
recalculations made.
The Review was designed to provide finality to both parties and to draw a line under the 
matter  where appropriate businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that 
they wouldnt be liable for future compensation; and consumers could be re-assured that 
the mis-selling had been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were 
considered to be reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many 
years later.
The new FCA guidance for reviewing pension transfers
In 2017 the FCA issued new guidance  known as FG17/9. This was designed for 
complaints upheld about OPS transfers received after 3 August 2016 or for complaints 
received before this date that hadnt been dealt with in full and final settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the Pension Review period would 
be excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said 
some cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant 
pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where 
the circumstances of the case werent addressed by those standards.
FR says the review carried out by ULP in 1997 wasnt done correctly because 
assumptions about the charges on his personal pension and discretionary increases to his 
OPS werent correct. It says this means ULPs review was invalid and so the redress due 
to Mr W should be recalculated using the FG17/9 guidelines.
ULPs position was that it had already settled the matter in respect of the unsuitable 
advice as part of the Pension Review, which it had carried out according to the 
requirements of the regulators at the time.
I think its helpful at this point to set out this Services usual approach when errors have 
been found in Pension Review calculations. For example, where an incorrect date of birth, 
sex, or pension transfer value has been used. In these circumstances I would normally 
direct the business involved to correct that error (but as at the date of the review, not now).
This is because the Pension Review bulletin five said that where an offer was made 
and accepted in good faith and it was later found the calculation contained an error, 
the re- calculation should be done using the same effective date as the original 
calculation. Although there was no offer made by ULP to Mr W in 1997 - because it 
found there was no loss  I apply the same principle.
ULPs treatment of charges on Mr Ws personal pension and discretionary increases under 
his former OPSFR said ULP didnt deal properly with certain elements of the Pension Review it undertook 
for Mr W. In response our Investigator said:
In your correspondence you stated that Utmost have failed to provide evidence that they 
have used the correct assumptions in the previous calculation for personal pension costs 
and discretionary increases for the DB benefits. Based on evidence I have seen from 
Utmost, which was provided by the Railway Pension Scheme, I believe that the correct 
assumption was made in respect of discretionary increases. I also believe that personal 
pension costs were factored into the review. However, if you are able to provide alternative 
calculations, at your cost, then we will consider them.
FR hasnt provided any new calculations or evidence to support its arguments.
Having reviewed the documentation provided by ULP related to the review of its advice to Mr 
W in 1997, I agree with the Investigators findings. I think the potential for discretionary 
increases in his OPS benefits were considered, and reasonably discounted. Similarly Ive not 
seen anything which makes me think the approach it took to taking into account charges on 
his personal pension fees was incorrect.
This Service isnt a checking service, we dont employ actuaries to check Pension Review 
calculations. However, Ive considered the information we do have  and endeavoured to 
understand what ULP and its actuaries did at the time and why. And Ive then compared 
that with the relevant guidelines. Having done so, the calculation appears in line with the 
relevant guidelines set out under the Pension Review. 
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise and theres no evidence to show Mr W 
disagreed with the Pension Review outcome in 1997  that hed not suffered a loss. 
While the passage of time might suggest differently, I havent seen anything which 
makes me think Utmost Life and Pensions Limited didnt act fairly or reasonably in 
conducting the review and settling matters in accordance with its regulatory obligations 
at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman