DRN-3494918
The complaint
Mr G says The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) is 
responsible for providing him with incorrect information - on several occasions and over an 
extended period of time - about how he could utilise his pension funds. He says he relied on 
the erroneous information in planning for his retirement and that hes suffered financial 
detriment, trouble and upset as a result of its actions.
What happened
Mr G began exploring his retirement income options with Royal London in October 2020. As 
at November 2020, it recorded a transfer value for his policy of around £240,000. By August 
2021 this had increased to about £ 273,000.
Mr Gs pension pot had two sets of important attributes. The first was whether his funds 
attracted a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR), or not. Based on the November 2020 valuation, 
about £206,000 of his pension plan had a GAR attached and around £34,000 didnt. The 
second was whether his funds had protected rights, or not. At the time about £131,000 of his 
pension had protected rights with the balance of funds being unprotected.
Mr G wanted to take the GAR and non-GAR elements of his benefits separately. His plan 
was to use the former to purchase an annuity, and then place the residual funds into a 
separate personal pension with flexibility to drawdown income as and when required.
Royal London confirmed Mr G could take his GAR and non-GAR benefits separately or 
failed to inform him properly about restrictions on his plans on several occasions. This 
happened between November 2020 and when he submitted his application for an annuity 
with Canada Life at the beginning of August 2021.
Unfortunately, after Royal London contacted Canada Life to arrange Mr Gs annuity towards 
the end of August 2021, it discovered it had made a mistake. It informed him that it wasnt 
able to separate out the various elements of his pension pot in the way it had previously led 
him to believe was possible.
After Mr G submitted his annuity application and Royal London discovered its error, an 
alternative annuity provider submitted a quote that wouldve provided him with an annual 
income that was £45 more than the equivalent Canada Life proposal. Mr G decided to stick 
with the firm hed initially chosen because he felt changing wouldve led to a further delay in 
securing the income he needed.
Mr G had several concerns about what had happened, including the pattern of incorrect 
information hed received from Royal London over a period of 10 months. He said hed 
already had a bad experience with it in relation to his occupational pension and was hoping 
things would work out more smoothly for his personal pension. But he was left frustrated and 
anxious about trying to put in place arrangements for his income in retirement. And he had to 
spend a great deal of time trying to get things sorted.
Mr G noted Royal London had never sent him any documentation which showed why he 
couldnt treat the GAR and Non-GAR elements of his pension separately.
Mr G raised his concerns with Royal London on 25 August 2021. It responded to him on 20 
January 2022, concluding in the following terms:
Having investigated the details of your complaint it is clearly evident that we have made 
mistakes, and that we have let you down. There has also been delays in investigating and 
resolving this matter for you.
I fully acknowledge that the level of service and customer care that we have provided to 
you with regards to this plan falls well below the levels that you expect to receive from us. I 
can therefore appreciate that the recent experience that you have had with us will have 
given you a very unfavourable impression of our Company, for which I am truly sorry.
I would like to reassure you that the details of your complaint will be fed back to the relevant 
business area, and that we will learn from the mistakes that we have made. There will be 
checks implemented in the process so that policyholders whose plans contain GARs are 
informed correctly the options available to them when taking the proceeds.
Finally, I can appreciate that our handling of this plan will have caused you inconvenience 
and frustration. There by way of our apology we would like to offer you an ex gratia payment 
of £1,000.00 in full and final settlement of your complaint
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Royal Londons response. He brought his complaint to this 
Service saying:
The issue relates to the taking of the Non-GAR element of my pension plan. I was told at 
various times and by different personnel within Royal London that I could put the Non-GAR 
element into a separate Pension Plan with income release. This would leave these monies 
invested for drawdown at a later date. This was confirmed in writing, verbally and by action 
by several Royal London representatives at various points during a period running from 
November 2020 to August 2021.
Having completed the forms in order to take the GAR related portion of my fund as an 
Annuity in early August 2021 I was then contacted by Royal London some three weeks later 
to be advised that I could not do what I was proposing. This despite being advised on 
several occasions previously by Royal London that I could. This included being sent a 
written illustration from Royal London of how the plan would look with the aforementioned 
Non-GAR element added
Mr G produced a schedule setting out the compensation he wanted from Royal London for 
the things it had got wrong. This totalled £23,033 and had four elements:
- A 50% refund of the arrangement fee, equating to £1,375.
- Projected loss over a 25-year period on the difference between the annuity benefits 
he was able to secure on the non-Gar element of his pension, compared to what he 
believes he couldve achieved had he been able to place the equivalent funds into a 
draw-down product. The loss he calculated was £18,083.
- Compensation for the time hed spent liaising with Royal London trying to get matters 
sorted out. He estimated 45 hours of his time charged at £35 per hour, a total of 
£1,575.
- Recognition of the considerable stress and inconvenience Royal London had caused 
him, for which he sought £2,000.An Investigator considered Mr Gs case but didnt uphold it. He agreed Royal London had 
made serious errors, and over an extended period of time. But he thought its offer to put 
things right was reasonable.
Mr G disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. He didnt think Royal 
London had produced telling evidence showing what rules applied to taking benefits from his 
policy in 2021. He also made the following points:
- Although he was presented with an alternative annuity quote around 24 August 2021, 
which wouldve provided an uplift of around £45 a year, Mr G says it wasnt really an 
option because he wanted his annuity to start from his 60th birthday (monthly, in 
arrears). He wasnt confident that going through the application process with a 
different firm wouldve been completed in time. He sought additional financial 
compensation, stating Royal London should make good the difference between the 
contract he secured and the higher quote available for the period of an average life 
expectancy, equating to £1,125.
- Royal Londons handling of his retirement planning arrangements impacted many 
aspects of his life, he gave examples of having to take his pension paperwork with 
him whenever he travelled, to be able to deal with matters arising while he was away. 
This impinged on already stressful events, such as when a close relative had been in 
hospital receiving treatment.
- He reiterated the amount of time hed spent on trying to get his pension 
arrangements resolved.
- He estimated that Royal London wouldve received about £6,000 from the 
transaction, and reflected on whether this was reasonable given the level of service 
hed received.
- He raised a concern that Royal London had confirmed a member of its staff who 
dealt with him didnt have the necessary knowledge of his pension plan to give him 
proper information.
In summary, Mr G didnt believe the £1,000 offered by Royal London to put things right 
represented fair redress.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Gs complaint has been 
passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by Royal 
London for Mr G. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Royal London. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
At the heart of Mr Gs complaint is his desire to have been able to take his GAR and non-
GAR pension benefits separately. Royal London has now provided him with documentation it 
says is relevant to his policy which sets out how his benefits can be taken. For example, its 
information note on GARs dated November 2014 says the following:
Our current annuity rates will be used to calculate the annuity income in respect of any 
portion of the plan value that does not attract guaranteed annuity rates. That portion of your 
plan cannot be transferred separately from the portion that benefits from guaranteed annuity 
rates.
And Ive not seen anything in the original terms and conditions of Mr Gs plan that suggests 
anything different.
I note that when Mr G complained to Royal London in September 2021 he said:
Whilst I accept that the original plan conditions do state that the GAR and non-GAR have to 
be taken contemporaneously and as an annuity. It is quite clear from my requests and 
discussions, that I had asked for an illustration for the non-GAR element to be moved into a 
separate Personal Pension Plan with Income release
Mr G says that given the major reforms to pensions over the years, including the pension 
freedoms legislation in 2015, its hard to believe that in 2021 his pension plan hadnt been 
updated to offer him the flexibility he wanted.
While I understand Mr Gs frustration here, I would note that pension freedoms were 
provided under enabling legislation only. That means providers didnt have to offer any 
further flexibility by law if the rules of the consumers policy didnt already allow an option 
such as drawdown. Firms werent compelled to change existing schemes because the 
nature of pension contracts requires long-term asset and liability planning.
Mr G has provided the terms and conditions of a Group Personal Pension Plan that was part 
of the same stable of products as his personal pension. The document dated 2019 does 
suggest members of that scheme had greater flexibility about how their benefits were taken. 
The problem for Mr G is that this doesnt apply to his pension plan.
So, Ive seen no evidence that makes me think Royal London hasnt applied the terms and 
conditions from Mr Gs pension plan correctly.Turning to Royal Londons service to Mr G while he was trying to finalise his retirement 
arrangements. Theres no dispute between the parties that he received incorrect information 
about how he could take his pension benefits, and over an extended period of time. 
Royal London apologised to Mr G, provided feedback to the business area concerned and 
put in place checks to ensure customers with enquiries about GARs received accurate 
information. It also offered him a payment in recognition of the trouble and upset it had 
caused.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Royal Londons response and he has argued for more redress. 
Ive thought carefully about each area of his claim and have concluded in the following 
terms:
-A refund from the arrangement fees (£1,375)  while its clear Mr G didnt receive the 
service he shouldve, Royal London did carry out work to ensure an annuity was 
established for him and he started to receive the income from it in line with his 
desired timetable. So, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to direct a return of 
fees paid here. The clear failings of service can be addressed in an award for 
distress and inconvenience.
-Projected pension loss over 25 years (£18,083) - I dont think Royal London should 
be expected to honour the estimated potential loss he identifies as resulting from the 
incorrect information he was given about how his benefits could be taken. Thats 
because it wasnt something to which Mr G was ever entitled. Any loss of expectation 
hes experienced can be addressed in an award for distress and inconvenience.
-Loss of income due to not taking highest annuity quote (£1,125)  While I recognise 
Mr G was anxious about getting his annuity in place and he had concerns that 
moving to a different provider late in the day couldve caused delays, I think its more 
likely than not any delay wouldve been minor. It was Mr Gs decision not to take the 
better quote and Royal London cant reasonably be held responsible for any loss 
arising.
Mr G has also made a claim for the trouble and upset hes been caused. He wanted £1,575 
for the time hed spent dealing with Royal London. And a further £2,000 for the considerable 
stress and inconvenience hed experienced. 
Some of Mr Gs arguments about redress have merit. When Im considering a complaint like 
his I think about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and inconvenience. This 
isnt intended to fine or punish a business  which is the job of the regulator. But when 
somethings gone wrong, recognition of the emotional and practical impact can make a real 
difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Royal Londons actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or 
upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here. 
Royal London offered Mr G £1,000 for the poor information it provided about how he could 
take benefits from his plan, and for the service issues he experienced. This is a substantial 
award and having reviewed the available evidence and arguments, I think it was a 
reasonable offer.
If it hasnt done so already, The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should now 
make arrangements to pay Mr G the redress it offered originally.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman