DRN-1359865
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society gave her incorrect and incomplete 
information about her mortgage application. She asks for compensation for financial loss and 
stress.  
What happened
Miss B contacted Nationwide in January 2019 about porting her mortgage. She wanted to 
buy a property with her partner (who Ill refer to as Mr M). Miss B wanted to make the 
mortgage application in her sole name due to Mr Ms adverse credit history. Nationwide said 
it wouldnt offer a sole mortgage if the property title was in joint names.
Mr Ms parents were providing money towards the purchase and wanted their money 
protected. Miss B discussed this with Nationwide. She provided a gifted deposit form, signed 
by Mr M: this set out the terms of the gifted deposit acceptable to Nationwide. 
Nationwide issued a mortgage offer in March 2019 and Miss B proceeded with the purchase 
process.
In May 2019 Miss B and her solicitor raised questions with Nationwide about the terms on 
which Mr M's parents were providing funds and whether this was acceptable to 
Nationwide. Miss B says there were delays before Nationwide provided answers, meaning 
she couldnt complete her purchase.
Miss B says shes now buying a property with a help to buy loan. She says this is more 
expensive than the interest free loan from Mr Ms parents. Miss B says Nationwide is partly 
to blame as it didnt give her clear information about the gifted deposit.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part. He said while 
Nationwide hadnt been clear in early May 2019 about whether it would accept the gifted 
deposit arrangement proposed by Miss B, this didnt change the outcome. What was 
proposed wasnt acceptable to Nationwide. 
However, the investigator recommended Nationwide pay an additional £175 compensation 
for the delays, which it agreed to do
Miss B didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B contacted Nationwide in January and February 2019. The circumstances of her 
proposed purchase were not straightforward. Miss B owned a property in her sole name with 
a mortgage from Nationwide. She wanted to buy a property with Mr M and intended to sell her property and port her mortgage to the new property. Due to Mr Ms credit history, Miss B 
intended to apply for the mortgage in her sole name. 
Nationwide told Miss B it wouldnt offer her a sole mortgage if the property was in joint 
names. So the property would have to be in Miss Bs sole name. However, Mr Ms parents 
were contributing money towards the purchase. They wanted this money protected.
Nationwide said Miss B should contact a solicitor about protecting Mr Ms parents money 
with a second charge, and said that a gifted deposit form would need to be completed.
Miss B provided a completed gifted deposit form in March 2019. It says the gift is from Mr M, 
the applicants partner. The form requires the donor to confirm that the gift is unconditional or 
is from a family member and subject to a subsequent charge, only repayable on the sale of 
the property. A mortgage offer was issued on 18 March 2019.
I dont think Nationwide misled Miss B about the terms on which it would lend. And I think 
Nationwide was right to say from the outset that Miss B would need to take advice from a 
solicitor about the second charge.
Miss B and her mortgage adviser asked Nationwide for more information about the terms of 
the second charge, and what it would accept, in early May 2019. Miss Bs solicitor wrote to 
Nationwide in mid May 2019. This set out the proposed terms of the gifted deposit. It said 
the funds were a loan. And it set out the conditions that would be attached, including a 
power of sale.
Nationwides policy is that there must be no conditions attached to a gifted deposit. It makes 
an exception if the gift is from a family member and there is a second charge, only repayable 
when the property is sold. 
Mr Ms parents were contributing a substantial amount towards the purchase, and I can 
understand that they wanted to protect this. But their proposal wasnt consistent with 
Nationwides policy. So the purchase couldnt have gone ahead with Mr Ms parents lending 
the funds for the deposit on the terms proposed.
I can understand how disappointed Miss B was that her purchase didnt go ahead in May 
2019. But I dont think Nationwide was responsible for this  the proposed terms of the gifted 
deposit and second charge didnt meet its policy. 
I dont think Nationwide was responsible for any significant delays in Miss Bs mortgage 
application. It wasnt told about the particular terms of the gifted deposit and second charge 
until May 2019, so it couldn't have told her before this that what was proposed wasn't 
acceptable.
Nationwide accepts it gave Miss B inconsistent information in May 2019 about what it would 
accept regarding the gifted deposit and second charge. I can understand that at this point - 
when Miss B was hoping to exchange contracts for her purchase - this would have caused 
her upset and worry. Nationwide paid compensation of £225 for any trouble and upset 
caused, and agreed to pay another £175 after the complaint came to us. I think, in the 
circumstances, this is fair and reasonable.
Miss B has now taken out a help to buy loan. While I appreciate this is more expensive than 
an interest free loan from Mr Ms parents, I dont think Nationwide is responsible for this. The 
terms of the loan from Mr Ms parents wasnt consistent with Nationwides policy, so Miss B 
was always going to need to find another way to fund her purchase.Putting things right
Nationwide agreed to pay compensation of £400 (in total) for the trouble and upset caused 
by giving Miss B inconsistent information in May 2019. I think this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Nationwide Building Society to pay £400 
in total (this includes any compensation it has already paid).
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman