DRN-3195059
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the process of providing identification documents after she opened a 
fixed term savings account with Aldermore Bank Plc. 
What happened
Mrs P opened a one year fixed term savings account with Aldermore in June 2021. The 
account terms say customers cant withdraw their money or close the account during the 
fixed rate period unless there are exceptional circumstances. 
Shortly after Mrs P opened her account she asked Aldermore to update her address as 
shed moved. Mrs P has explained that she feels Aldermore unreasonably rejected 
documents she sent including a utility bill, HRMC letter and online bank statement. 
In September 2021 Mrs P complained about the process of providing identification. 
Aldermore agreed it had provided poor service at times and caused some delays. Aldermore 
offered Mrs P a total of £150 and apologised for how the verification process had been 
handled. But Aldermore didnt agree it had made errors by rejecting documents Mrs P 
provided as they werent in line with its identification requirements. Mrs S asked Aldermore 
to close her account but it didnt agree. 
Mrs P referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Aldermore had dealt with Mrs Ps complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mrs P asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs P feels Aldermores approach to verifying her identification documents was 
too rigid. But businesses are free to set their own criteria and are obliged to take the process 
of verifying a customers identity very seriously. And whilst I understand businesses may 
have differing approaches to identification, I cant say that means Aldermore has acted 
unfairly by declining a particular document. 
In this case, Aldermore says it doesnt accept online bank statements for verification 
purposes. I understand Mrs P feels thats unreasonable, but Im satisfied Aldermore provided 
reasonable alternatives. In addition, Mrs P says the HMRC document contained a date, but it 
only gave the month and year of issue. Again, Aldermore says it cant accept documents 
dated in this way for verification purposes and Im satisfied thats a decision its entitled to 
make. Mrs P also sent a utility bill to Aldermore in her name, but it was incorrectly addressed 
to Mr P. Im satisfied Aldermore couldnt use incorrectly addressed documents to complete 
its verification process. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but I dont agree Aldermore unfairly rejected the documents 
provided. 
Aldermore accepts it provided poor service to Mrs P at times and couldve completed the 
verification process with fewer delays. I agree there were instances where Aldermore failed 
to respond to Mrs P as promised and that she was inconvenienced at times. But I think its 
fair to note that some of the delays were caused when Aldermore received documents it 
couldnt use. Aldermore has offered Mrs P a total of £150 to resolve her complaint. Im 
satisfied £150 fairly reflects the impact of Aldermores delays and the service provided to 
Mrs P. As Im satisfied Aldermore has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable, Im 
not telling it to increase the settlement. 
Mrs P has asked to be allowed to withdraw her funds to resolve the complaint. But the 
account terms are clear in explaining Mrs P can only access her funds once the fixed rate 
period ends. And whilst I agree there were some service issues in this case, for the reasons 
Ive given above, Im satisfied Aldermores existing offer is a fair way to resolve her 
complaint. I dont agree it would be fair to tell Aldermore to close Mrs Ps account in the 
circumstances of her complaint. 
As Im satisfied Aldermore has dealt with Mrs Ps complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action or increase the award.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint because Aldermore Bank Plc has 
already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman