DRN-3375106
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited trading as Assurant handled 
a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.   
  
What happened
Mr P holds a packaged bank account. One of the benefits of the account is that it comes with 
mobile phone insurance. In this case, Assurant is the insurer.
In September 2021 Mr P logged a claim for accidental damage to his mobile phone. The 
claim was accepted subject to an excess fee and the handset being sent to Assurant for 
repair. 
Mr P had no concerns about paying the excess fee, but he was unhappy that he needed the 
phone to be sent to Assurant to be repaired. He said  while damaged, the phone was still 
operational, and he couldnt be without his phone for an unspecified period of time. He 
thought Assurant should allow him to take the phone to by repaired at one of the 
manufacturers retail outlets. As Assurant didnt agree, he raised a formal complaint.
Assurant didnt uphold his complaint. It said the terms of the policy Mr P held say  in 
summary, where a phone is damaged it should be returned to it for repair (if possible) or 
replaced.
Unhappy with the response, Mr P referred his complaint to us. But our investigator didnt 
think Assurant had done anything wrong and he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P didnt 
accept this outcome. He said that the investigator had relied on the policy terms and 
conditions whereas this service should be looking at what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. He added that if a car needed to be repaired under a car insurance policy, a 
courtesy car would be provided.
The investigator thought about what Mr P had said but didnt change the outcome he had 
reached. He said it was for the insurer to decide how it settles a claim. And in the example 
provided by Mr P, he explained that a courtesy car would only be provided if that was a 
feature of the car insurance policy purchased. And in this case, the remedy Mr P was 
seeking wasnt a feature of his mobile phone insurance policy.
Mr P still disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator. I could only uphold this complaint if I thought Assurant had done something 
wrong. And I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
In this case there is no dispute that the mobile phone was damaged. Assurant accepted     
Mr Ps claim. Its how the claim is to be settled thats in dispute. So, Ive looked at the terms 
of Mr Ps policy. Under the section headed what you are covered for, it says:
If your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down, we will either:
(1) repair the mobile phone (where possible), or
(2) replace it with a mobile phone of the same make, model and memory size. If we cannot 
do this, you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification.
But Mr P thinks its unfair for Assurant to apply the terms in his case. He feels it would be 
fairer if he could get the phone fixed at the manufactures retail outlet and for Assurant to 
cover the cost of doing so, less the excess fee. 
I would only be able to tell Assurant to do something different to the terms in Mr Ps policy if I 
found the terms of the policy to be unclear or unfair. But having thought carefully about this, I 
dont find the terms of Mr Ps policy to be unusual or uncommon in mobile phone insurance 
policies. And I think that Mr Ps policy is clear about how a claim for a damaged phone would 
be settled. 
I think its up to individual insurers to decide for themselves how to settle a valid claim. In this 
case Assurant has decided that damaged phones should be returned to it for repair or 
replacement. Thats a decision its entitled to come to, regardless that Mr P might not agree 
with it. 
There could be several reasons why Assurant set the policy terms for damaged phones in 
the way it did  not least that it might be more expensive to use the manufactures retail 
outlets repairers than its own repairers. But, whatever Assurants reasons for applying these 
terms, as I've said above, those are decisions its entitled to come to. And I dont find the 
terms inherently unfair. So, I think its reasonable for Assurant to apply them. 
I can see that Assurant did tell Mr P that it sometimes allows a phone to be fixed at a 
manufacturers retail outlet  but only when the screen is damaged. And thats not the case 
here. Mr P has said its the back of the phone that is damaged. So, I dont think it follows that 
Assurant should apply the same remedy in this case.   
Mr P has mentioned that if a car needs repairing following an accident, a courtesy car is 
provided so that the insured person is not left without the use of a car. However, like the 
investigator has explained, that only happens in cases where a courtesy car is a feature of 
the policy purchased. So, I dont think this example is relevant here. Mr P didnt purchase a 
mobile phone insurance policy which allowed repairs (like those needed on his phone) to be 
done at the manufacturers retail outlet.   
Mr P has suggested the cover provided by his policy is unsuitable and not fit for purpose 
given the circumstances of his complaint. But Assurant didnt sell this insurance policy to him 
 it is part of his packaged bank account. So thats not a complaint point for Assurant  or 
me as part of this complaint, to address. 
Overall, I dont think it was unfair for Assurant to ask Mr P to send his mobile handset to it to 
be repaired. Ill leave it to Mr P to decide if he now wishes to pursue his claim with Assurant 
in line with the terms of his policy or seek a refund of any excess fee paid.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman