DRN-3351074
The complaint
Ms K complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (trading as 
Scottish Provident) has not acted fairly when administering her whole of life policy. 
What happened
Ms K took out the policy in August 1990 for the benefit of her husband as the life assured, as 
he was self-employed at the time. It was taken out through a third party financial adviser, 
initially with Pegasus Assurance, which later became Scottish Provident.  
The policy was Pegasus Critical Illness and Life Cover Whole Of Life Assurance set up on a 
maximum cover basis, with an initial £20 monthly premium and a sum assured of £67,892. 
The premium was increased annually by indexation. The policy was reviewable, with the first 
review taking place after ten years, and every five years thereafter. 
In 2011, the policy failed a review and Ms K was given a number of options with the policy 
going forwards. She chose to reduce the sum assured from £135,243 to £71,927 and kept 
the premium unchanged  by that time it was £40.71 per month.  
The policy failed another review in 2016, with the sum assured then reduced to £47,052. 
In July 2020, Ms K contacted Scottish Provident for a surrender value. She explained that 
she was since divorced and her children were now over 21. She therefore did not need to 
retain the policy for family protection. Scottish Provident provided a surrender quotation on 5 
August 2020 of £237.61. The actual surrender value at 18 August 2020 was £186.10.  
Ms K complained to Scottish Provident explaining that she was unhappy with the surrender 
value. In November 2020, it refused the complaint. It explained how the surrender paperwork 
made clear that a quoted value was not guaranteed. 
Further, Scottish Provident said that the policy was for protection purposes and was not 
designed to offer, or guarantee, a surrender value at any time. Scottish Provident was 
therefore satisfied that it had processed Ms Ks request in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, and that no assurance was given regarding a specific surrender value. 
Ms K brought the complaint to this service. She said she calculated that she had paid 
approximately £12,000 into the policy. She accepted that it was primarily for insurance and 
would have paid out had her ex-husband died or been diagnosed with a critical illness. 
However, Ms K submitted that her policy was not simply an insurance policy but contained a 
savings element; so she questioned how it could possibly be reasonable to have invested 
£12,000 and received back £186.10. The year before taking this policy, she had also taken 
out an endowment savings policy and this provided a reasonable surrender value despite 
also containing life assurance. In her view, she said she had been fleeced.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint but she did not think it should succeed. She said 
Royal London operated the policy, but it wasnt responsible for selling it to Ms K. 
Though Ms K was disappointed with the surrender value, the premiums were paid since 
1990 for the life and critical illness cover for Ms Ks ex-husband. The policy wasnt designed 
to produce an investment return, and surrender values were not guaranteed. So, she said 
she felt Scottish Provident had not acted outside of the policy terms.
Ms K said she accepted that the complaint wasnt one of mis-selling. She clarified that she 
knew the policys value wasnt guaranteed and that she had taken it out predominantly for 
life cover. 
Ms K explained that the previous policy provider issued an annual statement which included 
the unit value of the plan but when Scottish Provident took over the policy, this stopped. 
From then on, the annual statements only referred to the level of life cover and the monthly 
premium. 
She disputed that a value of £213.67 was provided to her in 2016. Ms K said if she had been 
aware of the valuation, she would have taken steps to cancel the policy when her youngest 
son turned 18 in April 2017. That was because she had only retained the policy as cover for 
her children following her divorce. 
However, she continued to pay over £50 per month for a further three years, believing that it 
would be increasing the value of the savings pot. Because of this, she added £1,942.29 to a 
policy that was basically worthless. If Scottish Provident had given her the right information, 
she could have made the choice to stop the cover sooner. The failure to properly inform her 
meant she maintained a policy that was of no benefit to her.  
Ms K said she wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Scottish Provident had 
no other comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. 
I realise Ms K feels particularly aggrieved about the type of policy she was sold, but as our 
investigator explained (and Ms K accepts) Scottish Provident didnt sell the policy to Ms K. 
So it is not responsible for what she or her ex-husband may have been told about the policy.  
Scottish Providents responsibility to Ms K is to operate the policy within the terms agreed in 
1990. And having reviewed those terms, it has clearly done so. The terms say that after the 
first year, Ms K could provide written notice to surrender the policy, and any surrender 
payment made to her must be the cash sum equal to the value of the units on the relevant 
valuation day.  
When Ms K was sent the first quotation, this wasnt guaranteed. The letter of 5 August 2020 
explains that, with a bold notice explaining that this value Is not guaranteed and the 
amount you will receive if you surrender your Plan will be the surrender value on the 
date of receipt of all the documents we need to complete your request. 
Each year, Ms K and her financial adviser were sent letters regarding the increase to the 
cover and premium as a result of the Automatic Indexation Option  which could be refused. 
I can see that this letter did not include the policys unit value. But I dont think Scottish 
Provident was unreasonable by doing so  that was not the purpose of the letter. It was to confirm the new premium and sum assured going forward if Ms K didnt object to that years 
indexation.  
Where the unit value was communicated to Ms K was at the relevant policy reviews. The 
most recent review was sent to Ms K and her adviser in letters of 11 July 2016. At that time 
the unit value was confirmed to Ms K as £213.67, and Scottish Provident set out that the 
plan value is not guaranteed. If you were to surrender the plan, the amount you may receive 
may be lower or higher than the amount shown above.
I believe Ms K was, or should have been reasonably aware of what the policys surrender 
value was in 2016. Ms K says she could have surrendered it in April 2017 when her eldest 
child was 18  and would have done so but for the lack of correspondence. However, 
Scottish Provident didnt send out the next indexation paperwork until after this time, in 
August 2017. So Ms K had the relevant information in April 2017 to cancel the policy at that 
time if she wished to. The letter of 11 July 2016 was properly addressed and sent to both Ms 
K and her adviser. 
I recognise Ms K feels she has carried on paying into a policy that was of no value to her. 
That is her view on the basis she sees the policy as a form of investment vehicle; but the 
policy was not designed to accrue a surrender value. It offered life and critical illness benefit 
for Ms Ks ex-husband. That was the primary purpose of the policy, and the premiums she 
paid met that insurance requirement. Scottish Provident would have been obligated to pay 
the sum assured, should a valid claim have been made at any time before the policy ended.   
Whole of life policies (for example with-profits policies) can sometimes be used for 
investment purposes to accrue a value over a longer term. But that isnt the type of policy Ms 
K took out. This was a maximum cover policy, specifically chosen as a protection policy for 
the event of death or listed critical illness for Ms Ks ex-husband. 
With policies of this type, the premium payment is used to purchase units but the cost of this 
goes towards paying for the life and critical illness cover, with any small remaining proportion 
left over being invested. Reviews are then undertaken to look forward for the next five years, 
to determine if the premium will be sufficient to meet the cost of offering the cover. On 
general grounds, policies of this type are unlikely to pass reviews in later years  the only 
guaranteed premium and sum assured is for the first ten years.  
Accordingly, in 2011 and 2016 Ms Ks policy failed reviews. On both occasions, the sum 
assured decreased at her choice. In 2016 it was reduced from £80,795 to £47,052. The 
premium would not sustain the same sum assured until 2021 so Ms K either had to increase 
the premium or reduce the sum assured. This is because the cost of cover is more 
expensive as a policyholder ages, as the likelihood of a claim increases.  
Ms K has compared returns from this policy to a different endowment policy but again, these 
are different in what they offer and how they operate. This policy provided personal 
protection including critical illness cover (which is more costly) on a maximum cover basis 
whereas endowment savings policies are generally geared towards investment, using 
underlying with profits or unit-linked investment funds. In these policies, life cover is a feature 
but its included to ensure the policy is qualifying so a maturity value isnt subject to tax.   
My final decision
Though Ms K will be disappointed by my decision, Scottish Provident has not acted unfairly 
when providing the surrender value to Ms K for her policy. I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman