DRN-2702923
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Avantia Insurance Limited (trading as Homeprotect) mis-sold him 
a home insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr G took out a home insurance policy through Avantia. He specified 
that he had a watch worth £7,400 which he wanted to insure within his home.
In June 2020, Mr Gs home was burgled and various items were taken, including the watch. 
He made a claim under the policy. The insurer settled the claim in respect of the other items 
but would not cover the loss of the watch. It said that this was because, at the time it was 
stolen, the watch had not been either kept within a locked safe or under the personal 
supervision of Mr G.
Mr G complained to the insurer but it wouldnt change its position. Mr G therefore referred 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied the 
insurer had correctly and fairly applied the terms of the policy in declining the claim. He 
noted that if Mr G felt the conditions of cover hadnt properly been brought to his attention at 
the time of sale he should address his complaint to Avantia, as it was responsible for the 
sale, rather than the insurer.
Mr G didnt appeal the investigators findings in respect of the complaint against the insurer 
and so our file was closed. However, Mr G complained to Avantia that it had not made clear 
the conditions applying to his cover.
Avantia didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It considered he had been given adequate 
information to make him aware of the conditions applying to the cover for jewellery and 
watches worth more than £5,000.
Mr G was unhappy at Avantias response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He considered that 
Avantia hadnt done enough to make Mr G aware that for his watch to be covered when he 
wasnt wearing it at night, he needed to make sure it was stored in a safe. He therefore 
considered that Avantia should settle the claim in accordance with the policys remaining 
terms and conditions, plus interest.
Avantia didnt accept the investigators findings. It considered that the policy documentation 
sent to Mr G made clear that he needed to read the policy booklet and furthermore directed 
him to the relevant section. It didnt consider this was unusual practice within the industry 
and said it wasnt possible to highlight every policy requirement. It furthermore expressed 
concern about the validity of the watch, noting that Mr G wasnt able to produce a serial 
number or purchase receipt for the item and had apparently insured it for a lot less than its 
actual value.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avantia originally said the sale of the policy had been completed over the telephone. Our 
investigator asked them for a recording of the sales call. Avantia were unable to provide a 
call recording and subsequently acknowledged that, as Mr G had said, the policy had 
instead been taken out online.
The investigator asked Avantia to provide screenshots to show the information Mr G was 
presented with when he completed his online application but Avantia has been unable to 
provide these. As a result, I have no evidence to show Mr G was told anything about the 
conditions relating to cover for high value items before he took out the policy.
After taking out the policy, Mr G was sent a welcome letter, a policy schedule, a statement of 
fact and a 32-page policy booklet.
The welcome letter advised Mr G to read the accompanying documents but didnt otherwise 
say anything about the conditions attached to his cover.
The statement of fact showed the information Mr G had given to Avantia when taking out the 
policy. There was nothing to indicate he had been asked about where valuables were kept 
within the property.
The policy schedule showed that Mr G had cover for Specified Items Within the Home of 
£14,300.  Underneath this heading, the policy schedule stated: See Section 5(a) in your 
HomeProtect policy. Elsewhere in the schedule, the specified items were listed, including 
the watch valued at £7,400.
Section 5(a), which was on page 23 of the policy booklet, dealt with cover for specified items 
within the home. Within this, it stated:
For theft claims, cover isnt provided  For jewellery or watches worth more than £5,000 
individually when Youre not wearing them, unless kept in a locked safe or under Your 
Personal Supervision
Elsewhere in the policy booklet, Personal Supervision was described as follows:
Within Your sight and Your reach
Essentially, this meant that if Mr G removed his watch at night, he needed to ensure it was 
placed in a locked safe for theft cover to apply.
I dont consider that Avantia did enough to make Mr G aware of this condition attached to his 
cover. It is an important condition which I consider it should have highlighted, either on the 
policy schedule or through some other means. Given that most consumers dont own a safe, 
the condition could be considered onerous for the average consumer to comply with.  As 
such, I dont consider it was sufficient for Avantia to simply refer Mr G to the policy booklet, 
even though it highlighted the relevant section of that booklet. I consider that if Avantia had 
highlighted the need for the watch to be kept within a safe, it is likely that Mr G would either 
have looked for cover elsewhere that didnt have the same requirement or would have obtained a safe to make sure the cover was operative. I therefore consider that if it wasnt for 
Avantias failure to draw this condition to Mr Gs attention, it is likely his claim for the theft of 
his watch would have been covered by his insurance policy.
In view of the above, I consider the fair outcome is that Avantia pays Mr G the amount he 
would have received under his policy had the insurer accepted his claim, plus interest.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Avantia Insurance Limited to pay Mr G the amount he would have received under 
his policy had the insurer accepted his claim for the theft of his watch. I require Avantia to 
add interest to this sum at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from 16 June 2020 (the 
date the insurer declined his claim) until the date of settlement.*
* If Avantia considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman