Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in October 1999. Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
Mr D bought the policy in October 1999 when he applied for an upgrade to his credit card. 
The sale took place by way of a postal application.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays has provided us with a copy of the upgrade form Mr D completed in October 1999. 
This shows Mr D was given the option of adding the PPI to his account. Under the section 
for the PPI,  Mr D was presented with a yes and a no box for the PPI. Looking at the 
upgrade form which Mr D signed , I can see he ticked the yes box for the PPI. Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely than not Mr D would have understood the PPI 
was optional. And I dont think he would have selected the cover if he didnt want to take it 
out.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. Barclays hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the policy wording from 1999. 
Because of this, I havent seen the policy wording from the time of sale. But based on what I 
know about these types of policies generally I think its unlikely that Mr D would have been 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical 
conditions  so I think it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mr D chose to take out the PPI, 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
DRN-1154129Mr D has told us he didnt need PPI as he would have received generous sick pay from his 
employer. Having thought about what Mr D has said about his sick pay, I dont think this 
means he wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to the sick pay Mr D would have received from his employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than he would have received full pay  up to 12 months. The 
PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr D was ever made redundant or in the unfortunate 
event of death.
So overall, I think Mr D could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Barclays 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:
 Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr
D, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman