DRN-2594427
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs W says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs W took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in August 2001 whilst shopping in the store. 
The policy covered Mrs W in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job 
unexpectedly and became unemployed. It cost 1p per £1 of the amount owed on her card 
each month. It paid 15% of the outstanding monthly card balance while Mrs W was off work 
until she either returned to work or the card balance was cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs W mainly told us that she didnt know she had PPI. She said the sales assistant told her 
where to sign and, as far Mrs W knew, she was applying for a store card.
Mrs W told us that she would have declined PPI if shed been aware of it and it wasnt 
something she needed. 
Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
After looking carefully at the complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain my reasons.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Ws store card application.
Mrs W has signed in the section headed, in bold type: Protecting your Account next to 
where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account CoverPlease debit my 
Account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice. 
I've taken into account that Mrs W mentioned that the sales assistant directed her where to 
sign without explaining anything or asking her if she wanted PPI. And I dont know what (if 
anything) mightve been said to Mrs W about the PPI. But I think it wouldve been clear from 
the paperwork that it was up to Mrs W to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mrs W also signed the completed application next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to 
be legally bound by its terms. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs W wouldve first read 
through anything she was asked to sign when entering into a new financial commitment. So it 
seems to me that by signing the form Mrs W was indicating that she agreed with the 
information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, she has forgotten this now.  
Ive no doubt that Mrs W feels certain about everything shes told us. But what Mrs W says 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint just based on the way she 
says she was sold PPI. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think 
is most likely. And I havent seen enough information overall to be able to say that AXA 
didnt make Mrs W aware that the policy was optional or that it was added to her account 
without her consent. 
On balance, I think AXA did enough to make Mrs W aware that she had a choice about 
buying the PPI and that she chose to take it. 
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Mrs W. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs W enough clear 
information to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal 
circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs W wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. 
Mrs W was entitled to 3 months full sick pay followed by 3 months on half pay from her 
employer. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs W was off work sick or disabled. So it 
couldve paid out for longer than Mrs W was entitled to sick pay through work  and cleared 
her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs W with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled.
This same benefit was also available to Mrs W in the event that she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
So its fair to say that PPI offered Mrs W significantly better protection than she couldve 
relied on getting through her employer. 
I dont know if Mrs W wouldve always been able to rely on savings if she wasnt able to work 
as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  And the amount of savings she had 
available at the time isnt enough to make me think that the PPI wouldnt still have been 
useful to her if she had needed to claim.
So this information doesnt affect the outcome of her complaint. 
For all these reasons, I think the policy offered Mrs W useful benefits in her particular 
situation. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But this didnt affect Mrs W. She couldve 
taken advantage of all the main policy benefits. So I dont think its likely that having more 
information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mrs W off taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs W clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But the information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to. The policy provided the cover briefly described on the application form 
and there was an indication of how the cost would be worked out each month. So it looks 
like Mrs W was happy to pay for the PPI at the time as she agreed to pay the monthly 
premium when she filled in the application form.
It doesnt look like paying for the PPI was a problem for her when she took it out so thats 
not a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Mrs W couldve cancelled the policy at no cost 
at all within the first 30 days  and she couldve cancelled it at any time afterwards at no 
extra cost if she decided it wasnt something she wanted to pay for each month.
Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Mrs W, I think it unlikely she 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. 
So I dont find that Mrs W has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive taken carefully into account Mrs Ws comments, including what 
shes said about the way other peoples PPI claims have been dealt with and all the 
information shes sent me. We look at all cases on their own merits, taking into account the 
particular circumstances which apply in each individual case. I am concerned here just with 
Mrs Ws complaint about the PPI sold with this store card. So these points dont change my 
conclusion. 
I appreciate that what I've said will disappoint Mrs W but I hope that setting out the reasons 
as I've done will help her understand how I've reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman