DRN-2698564
The complaint
Miss D complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) wrongly 
recorded a default on her credit file, without warning her that they were going to do this.
What happened
In February 2020 Miss D phoned Cashplus to ask about closing her account. She says 
Cashplus told her that there were no fees to pay. But after her account was closed Miss D 
noticed a default showing on her credit file. She complained to Cashplus. 
Cashplus apologised for their error  they said the account shouldnt have been closed 
because Miss D still owed them £47.60 in unpaid fees. They said that these fees were 
repayments on a CreditBuilder agreement that shed applied for in February 2019. They 
said that her credit file wouldnt show the agreement as being settled until shed paid this.
Miss D says she rang Cashplus and paid the outstanding amount, but they still didnt remove 
the default from her credit file. Our investigator thought that Miss Ds account hadnt been 
settled because Cashplus had given her the wrong information. In the absence of any 
evidence of Cashplus telling Miss D that she still owed them money, or giving her an 
opportunity to avoid the default, the investigator thought Cashplus should remove the default 
on Miss Ds credit file and pay her £150 compensation.
Cashplus disagreed with the investigators view. They said that the CreditBuilder attached to 
Miss Ds account had been mismanaged - and that she wouldve known about this. They 
said communications about missed payments go to customers as part of their standard 
process, and that it was highly unlikely that Miss D hadnt been aware of the outstanding 
debt. They said they were prepared to amend Miss Ds credit report as a gesture of goodwill, 
but they considered £150 compensation to be excessive.
Cashplus provided further evidence, including details of alerts theyd emailed to Miss D 
about missed payments, and a copy of their default notice dated 28 February 2020. They 
said that they still hadnt received payment of the outstanding amount. Miss D confirmed that 
the payment shed made to settle her account had in fact been returned to her.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Ive carefully considered what Miss D wouldve known about the way this account operates. 
Miss D says that she wasnt aware that there was a 12-month CreditBuilder agreement on 
her account, and that she thought it was a debit card account. CreditBuilder is designed to 
help customers to improve their credit rating by paying their monthly account fees on time 
each month. Im satisfied that Miss D wouldve had to apply online to add this to her account 
in February 2019. Cashplus have provided a copy of the information Miss D wouldve seen 
when she applied. This information includes a clear statement that its a 12-month 
agreement, requiring monthly instalments of £5.95. So, Im satisfied Miss D ought to have 
known that she had to pay these monthly fees. 
Ive reviewed the evidence Cashplus have provided about the way Miss D managed and 
used her account. I can see that, between February and June 2019, the £5.95 fee was paid 
each month. But even during this initial period I can see several occasions where there were 
insufficient funds in the account to cover direct debits. I can see that Miss D stopped using 
the account for purchases and bill payments - she transferred the remaining balance of 
£2.06 out of her Cashplus account in July 2019.
Miss D says she didnt receive any letters, emails or default notices from Cashplus before 
they registered a default on her account. Cashplus have provided evidence showing that 
notifications about missed payments and a default notice were emailed to Miss D. Given that 
theres a dispute about what happened, Ive looked very carefully at the evidence to decide 
whats most likely to have happened. 
No monthly fees were taken in August or September 2019 because there was no money in 
the account. In October 2019 Miss D transferred £6.00 into her Cashplus account, and the 
£5.95 fee was taken the following day. Miss D hasnt told us what prompted her to transfer 
this money into the account, but on balance Im satisfied that she was most likely to have 
done it because she knew that shed missed CreditBuilder payments, and that this was likely 
to affect her credit rating. Ill explain why I say this.
I accept what Cashplus has provided as evidence that it sent notifications. I can also see 
that Cashplus had correctly recorded Miss Ds current email address. So I can see no 
reason why she wouldnt have received their missed payment notifications. Ive also looked 
closely at the credit report that Miss D shared with us. I can see that the months in which 
payments were made on time are shown in green. Months in which payments were one or 
two months late turn amber. When payment is late by three months or more, the colour 
changes to red. Miss Ds credit report shows the CreditBuilder in green until August 2019, 
when it changed to amber. If shed continued to miss payments, the colour wouldve 
changed to red in October 2019. Her payment that month wouldve changed this back to 
amber, as she was again only two months behind with payments. 
When Miss D rang Cashplus in February 2020, her CreditBuilder agreement was due to 
come to an end and she was six months behind with payments. For the reasons Ive set out, 
I consider Miss D wouldve been aware of this. Cashplus admit that they gave Miss D 
incorrect information - they shouldve told her that she wouldnt be able to close the account 
until shed paid the outstanding fees. Ive thought about what impact that had on Miss D. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I find it most likely that Miss Ds account wouldve gone 
into default even if Cashplus had told her how much she needed to pay before she could 
close her account. I say this because I havent seen anything to persuade me that Miss D 
wouldve paid the outstanding amount of £47.60 in February. But I can understand Miss Ds 
frustration at discovering the account was in default so soon after being told that it had been 
closed without charge, so I think Cashplus should compensate her for this.
The default notice Cashplus issued on 28 February stated that Miss D should pay by 30 April 
to avoid enforcement action being taken. Cashpluss records show that Miss D rang them on 
24 April to ask how she could pay. Ive seen no evidence as to when Miss D tried to make 
payment. Im satisfied that Cashplus made it clear that shed need to contact them again to 
let them know when shed transferred the money, because she wouldnt be able to correct 
missed payments through her online account. This was explained in their letter dated 10 
March and again when she rang on 24 April. Ive seen no evidence as to whether Miss D 
followed these instructions, so I cant say that Cashplus did anything wrong by returning her 
payment. I said that I intended to direct the business to compensate Miss D for the trouble and upset 
shes been caused - and that Id assessed suitable compensation at £75. In invited the 
parties to make any further comments.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss D didnt respond. 
Cashplus expressed surprise at an uphold decision  they felt that my provisional decision 
consistently said theyd taken the right course of action and that the customer wouldve been 
aware of payments due, which was evidenced in several ways. They said they appreciate 
they gave incorrect information, which was covered in their final response letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the response to my provisional decision, Ive seen no new evidence leading me to 
depart from it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I uphold this complaint and direct Advanced Payment 
Solutions Ltd to compensate Miss D for the trouble and upset shes been caused.
 
Ive assessed suitable compensation at £75. I note that, as theres still an outstanding 
balance on Miss Ds account, the business would be entitled to offset that debt against 
compensation it owes to Miss D. Given that Miss D has also said she wants to make sure 
her balance is cleared, it would seem sensible for Advanced Payments Solutions Ltd to use 
this compensation to settle the account, and pay any remaining sum directly to Miss D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman