DRN-3980130
The complaint
Mr W complains about the decision by Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) to turn down
his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr W is covered by his employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is to
pay benefit in the event he cant work because of illness or injury. The scheme has a
deferred period of 26 weeks.
In June 2021, Mr W stopped work whilst being investigated for cardiac problems. He made a
claim, but Generali turned it down as it didnt think hed shown he was incapacitated,
according to the terms of the scheme. Unhappy with this, Mr W brought a complaint to this
service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partly upheld. She thought some of the
material and substantial duties of Mr Ws role may need to be avoided if they triggered his
symptoms. The investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to ask Generali to
accept the claim, and instead recommended that Generali obtain the opinion of an
independent medical expert, and then reconsider the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 February 2023. Heres what I said:
For a claim to be paid, Mr W must show that he meets the following scheme definition of
incapacity throughout the deferred period (June to December 2021):
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and
Substantial duties of their occupation
The scheme terms explain that Material and Substantial means duties that are normally
required for the performance of a Members occupation and cannot reasonably be omitted or
modified by their Employer.
I understand that Mr Ws cardiac condition was discovered after he attended hospital for an
unrelated condition, and he was found to have high blood pressure. Various investigations
then took place until he was diagnosed with his cardiac condition.
Mr W was seen by a consultant cardiologist (Dr G) in June 2021. Dr G said that Mr Ws
blood pressure readings had reduced after stopping work, he denied any chest pain or
breathlessness, and there had never been any syncope (fainting). Dr G noted that Mr W
remained very active and cycled at least 40 miles a week without any limitations. He said
Mr Ws symptoms had been worse since he had two periods of work-related stress.
In July 2021, Dr G said Mr W was feeling ok though with some intermittent palpitations. He
thought some of Mr Ws symptoms were undoubtedly due to stress. Dr G said Mr W may
have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, but that his history and investigations would put him in
the low-risk group. He said Mr W was aware there was no specific treatment, but he would
recommend beta-blockers which would help with his blood pressure and palpitations. Dr G
referred Mr W to Dr M (another consultant cardiologist), and said he had indicated that the
potential cardiomyopathy was an incidental finding, rather than causative of Mr Ws
symptoms.
Dr M assessed Mr W. He noted that Mr W thought his symptoms of palpitations were
attributable to stress and heavy lifting. He explained that on exercise, Mr W became
symptomatic following nine minutes on a treadmill where he achieved 169bpm. Dr M also
said Mr W could recreate his symptoms by performing isometric dips which Mr W said
reproduced a similar type of exertional effort as when he was at work.
Dr M concluded that Mr W had mild hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. He recommended beta-
blockers, and said he had asked him to avoid specific triggers of his symptoms, and that he
was writing a letter for employment purposes to reflect this. Although Dr M was happy for
Mr W to continue mild to moderate exercise, he thought he should keep his heart rate to less
than 120bpm.
Dr M then wrote a separate letter for Mr Ws employer. He said Mr W should avoid specific
triggers of his condition - including high intensity activities and stress, as well as exertional
activities that can bring on his symptoms, including heavy lifting.
Mr Ws employer provided information to Generali about his role. They said his role was to
repair and refurbish a type of machine, repackage it, and return it to the customer. He also
provided phone support to external service providers.
The employer later provided Generali with more detail about Mr Ws work activities. They
said that the role included lifting products, but anything over 22kg would be lifted by two
people. They described how the machine would be taken from a pallet of stock already in the
service centre, or from the warehouse. And that all employees are trained in manual
handling and provided with lightweight trucks to help move the machines, or can use a
scissor lift truck (which is height adjustable) to move the machine to their individual
workstation. The machine is then assessed, and if necessary, a repair will take place. The
machine will then be cleaned, quality checked by someone else, and then repackaged.
I think it was reasonable for Generali to rely on Mr Ws employers description of his role.
Whilst I understand Mr W thinks his employer has misrepresented his role to Generali, I cant
comment on this, as this would need to be addressed between Mr W and his employer.
I appreciate that Mr W does have a manual role and that repairing the machines would
naturally require some level of exertion. However, the evidence from his employer doesnt
suggest that this would be high intensity activity or that he is required to do heavy lifting.
Mr W has reported how he experienced significant problems whilst he was at work. For
example, he says that lifting caused presyncope episodes (one occasion he says he thought
he may have been experiencing a heart attack), extreme fatigue, and arms feeling heavy
when raised. But I havent seen any medical evidence which reflects that Mr W was having
these symptoms whilst he was working.
Dr G thought that Mr Ws symptoms of high blood pressure and occasional palpitations were
caused by stress, rather than his heart condition. Stress is a reaction to certain situations,
and can occur in everyday life. Although there was a reference to two periods of work-
related stress, I dont know when these were.
Mr W says the stress associated with his role wasnt excessive, but he thought his reaction
to it was disproportionate. I understand he found certain aspects of his role stressful (suchas attending meetings, and dealing with difficult customers), though I dont think these would
be considered material and substantial duties of his role. Also, Mr W has since been started
on beta-blockers to reduce his blood pressure. Furthermore, his employer was apparently
willing to consider permanent reasonable adjustments to his role (which may well have
removed some of these stresses), but Mr W did not wish to explore this.
Whilst its clear that Dr M wanted Mr W to avoid triggers of his condition, he didnt suggest
that Mr W couldnt carry out his role any longer. The available evidence doesnt support that
Mr Ws role brought on his symptoms whilst he was still working, or that his role involved
aspects (such as heavy lifting) which would have likely brought on his symptoms if he had
returned to work during the deferred period. It appears to only be Mr Ws perception that his
role would bring on his symptoms.
I note that after the deferred period had ended, Mr W reported experiencing episodes of
presyncope around five times a week. Mr W said that even bending forward could trigger a
presyncope episode. He also said that he was no longer able to engage in activities which
require physical exertion or prolonged physical activity. It may well be that Mr Ws condition
has worsened, as during the deferred period he was able to carry out quite high intensity
exercise and cycle 40 miles a week without limitations. However, Ive only been able to
consider whether Mr W met the definition of incapacity during the deferred period.
Our investigator thought Generali should arrange for Mr W to be assessed by an
independent medical expert. However, I dont think this would be helpful at this point, given
that Mr Ws condition has apparently worsened.
Overall, whilst I recognise Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I dont think he has
shown that his condition prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial duties
of his role, during the deferred period.
I asked both parties if they wanted to provide any further comments or information before I 
made my final decision.
Mr W responded to say he had no new information, and that he had resigned from his role.
Generali responded to say it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or information for me to consider, I 
remain of the same opinion as expressed in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman