DRN-3944293
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a claim for a 
cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The policy 
was sold over the phone, by an independent broker who Ill call S. 
Mr F bought the policy on 18 September 2021. During the call, Mr F told S about his and Mrs 
Fs pre-existing medical conditions. Mr F also said Mrs F had recently visited her doctor 
concerning symptoms which the doctor thought might be IBS. Mr F said Mrs F was awaiting 
the results of tests. S said that, because Mrs F was awaiting the results of tests, Great Lakes 
wouldnt cover any claims which were linked to or associated with any of her pre-existing 
medical conditions. S said, when Mrs F received the test results, Mr F should contact it to 
see if it could then include cover for Mrs Fs pre-existing medical conditions. 
On 7 October 2021, Mr F contacted S to say that the test results which Mrs F had been 
undergoing for abdominal pain had come back clear, and that no medical conditions had 
been diagnosed. Mr F said Mrs F had all the tests completed and had been discharged from 
all follow-ups. However, Mr F said Mrs F had been given medication for acid reflux. So, S 
added acid reflux to the list of Mrs Fs declared medical conditions and confirmed that Great 
Lakes would now cover Mrs Fs pre-existing medical conditions. 
Unfortunately, on 8 October 2021, the day Mr and Mrs F were due to travel to the departure 
point of their trip, Mrs F attended hospital with nausea and severe abdominal pains. Mr and 
Mrs F were unable to travel and made a claim under their policy with Great Lakes. Mrs F 
was subsequently diagnosed with a bacterial stomach infection in November 2021. 
Great Lakes said Mr and Mrs Fs claim wasnt covered under their policy, because Mrs F 
had consulted a doctor on 15 September 2021 (before the policy was purchased) and was 
awaiting investigations for the medical condition which subsequently led to the claim. Great 
Lakes said this doctors consultation, the medical condition for which Mrs Fs GP was 
consulted and the referral which was made for further investigations hadnt been declared to 
it. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs F complained to Great Lakes before bringing the matter to the 
attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said, based on the telephone 
call of 7 October 2021, that she thought Great Lakes should accept Mr and Mrs Fs claim. 
Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigators opinion and has since provided a copy of the 
original sales call between Mr F and S from 18 September 2021. 
As a resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
I requested additional medical information from Mr and Mrs F and sent copies of this medical 
evidence to Great Lakes with my provisional decision in January 2023. In my provisional 
decision, I said: 
Great Lakes isnt responsible for the sale of this policy. This policy was sold by S, who is a 
separate and distinct business to Great Lakes and one which is regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its own right. When making this decision, Im only considering the 
regulated activities which Great Lakes is responsible for  that is, the decision to decline Mr 
and Mrs Fs claim. However, I have made findings of fact about the information which Mr and 
Mrs F provided to S in its capacity as Great Lakes agent under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The rules also 
say insurers must provide a policyholder with appropriate information on the progress of a 
claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my provisional decision about Mr and 
Mrs Fs complaint. 
Great Lakes says Mr and Mrs Fs claim isnt covered because of the following general policy 
exclusion: 
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of: 
1. Claims arising as a result of the following: 
 
b) If you  have suffered from any of the following in the 2 years before purchasing 
your policy, unless you have made a declaration to us and we have agreed to 
provide cover in writing: 
i. you have a medical condition for which you have been prescribed medication; or 
ii. you have received treatment, investigative tests, or had a consultation with a 
doctor, or a hospital consultant. 
I also note that Mr and Mrs Fs policy doesnt cover undiagnosed medical conditions or 
symptoms which require attention or investigation in the future. 
Mr F was asked questions about his and Mrs Fs previous medical history when he bought 
the policy. As Great Lakes will be aware, this means the principles set out in CIDRA are 
relevant. CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care required is that 
of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies 
provided the misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying one. For the 
misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, the insurer must show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
Ive listened to both the call on 18 September 2021 and the call on 7 October 2021 and Ive 
considered all the available medical evidence. Having done so, I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the general policy exclusion set out above to decline 
Mr and Mrs Fs claim. I also dont think the application of the principles set out in CIDRA 
means that Mr and Mrs Fs claim isnt covered under their policy. Ill explain why. Mrs F consulted her GP on 15 September 2021, before the policy was purchased. The GPs 
records of this attendance show that Mrs F consulted for abdominal pain, was referred for 
tests and that the GP thought this sounds like IBS. 
During the telephone call between Mr F and S on 18 September 2021 when the policy was 
purchased, Mr F told S that Mrs F had attended her GP the previous week, was awaiting test 
results and that the GP thought Mrs F was displaying symptoms of IBS. As a result, Mr F 
was told that the policy wouldnt provide cover for any of Mrs Fs pre-existing medical 
conditions, including suspected IBS, but that Mr F should phone S back when Mrs Fs test 
results were returned so it could see if Mrs Fs medical conditions could be included. 
Mr and Mrs F have now provided evidence that Mrs F test results were returned as 
negative. Mr and Mrs F have also provided evidence of Mrs Fs A&E attendance on 4 
October 2021 which states that Mrs Fs GP tests returned negative results and that she was 
discharged from A&E with No Follow Up. The A&E discharge letter also shows that Mrs F 
was recommended medication for acid reflux. 
Mr F telephoned S on 7 October 2021 and said that Mrs Fs test results were clear, she 
hadnt been diagnosed with any new medical conditions and she had been completely 
discharged from all follow-ups. Mr F told S that Mrs F had been given medication for acid 
reflux, so S added acid reflux as one of Mrs Fs declared pre-existing medical conditions and 
said that cover for Mrs Fs declared pre-existing medical conditions was now included under 
the policy. The evidence which Ive seen supports what Mr F told S and Im satisfied that all 
the information he gave S was accurate, based on his and Mrs Fs knowledge at the time.
Having taken into account all the available medical evidence, I dont think Mrs F was 
awaiting investigations or had a medical condition which Mr F didnt tell S about. As far as 
Mrs F was aware, on 7 October 2021, she didnt have any undiagnosed medical condition or 
undiagnosed symptoms as defined in the policy. Her test results had been returned clear, 
she had been discharged from hospital with no follow-up and she had been told by a medical 
professional that she had acid reflux, which she declared to S. I think the medical certificate 
completed by the GP in connection which Mr and Mrs Fs claim further supports this, as it 
says its unclear whether Mrs F had a history of the medical issue leading to the claim, and 
that the consultation on 15 September 2021 was likely to be [sic] different cause but 
unclear. 
I appreciate that this may be a situation which Great Lakes doesnt wish to cover under this 
policy, but I dont think the policy exclusion quoted above applies to the individual 
circumstances of this claim. I also think Mr F took reasonable care when making disclosures 
to S about Mrs Fs medical history, so I dont therefore think Mr F made a misrepresentation 
under CIDRA. 
I therefore intend to direct Great Lakes to accept Mr and Mrs Fs claim. 
I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr and Mrs F didnt tell 
it about Mrs Fs GP consultation on 15 September 2021. I also dont think it was fair or 
reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the reasons it gave to Mr and Mrs F for declining their 
claim. Furthermore, I note there were delays and a lack of communication by Great Lakes 
when dealing with Mr and Mrs Fs claim, which Great Lakes acknowledged in its 
correspondence with Mr and Mrs F. I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to 
pay Mr and Mrs F compensation for the distress and inconvenience they experienced as a 
result of these issues. Ive set out the level of compensation which I think is appropriate 
below. However, as a final point, although I understand Mr and Mrs F believe Great Lakes didnt 
contact Mrs Fs GP when it said it would, Ive seen evidence which suggests Great Lakes did 
do this.

My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and direct Great 
Lakes Insurance SE to do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim, subject to any applicable policy limits and/or excesses;
add interest to the settlement at 8% simple per annum, from the date of the claim 
until the date the payment is made;
pay Mr and Mrs F £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced.
Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs F also accepted my provisional 
decision. Mr and Mrs F have subsequently told us that Great Lakes agent has paid £100 
compensation into their bank account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
findings. 
Great Lakes should clarify with Mr and Mrs F whether the payment of £100 compensation 
which has been made forms part of my compensation recommendations below.  
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right by doing the following:
paying Mr and Mrs Fs claim, subject to any applicable policy limits and/or excesses;
adding interest to the settlement at 8% simple per annum, from the date of the claim 
until the date the payment is made1;
paying Mr and Mrs F £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and I direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
1 If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs F how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs F a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. Ombudsman