DRN-4173811
The complaint
Ms H complains about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a claim 
she made under her gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms H has gadget insurance with D&G. The policy provides protection against breakdowns 
and accidental damage, as well as unlimited repairs and replacements. 
There was a problem with her sons mobile phone and so Ms H made a claim on her policy. 
Ms H was told the phone could either be repaired or replaced. She says she asked for a 
replacement because it would be quicker than waiting for the repair.  
Ms H says while she was on the call with the advisor she asked what would happen if the 
replacement phone was faulty. She says she was told it would either be replaced with 
another handset, or she would be provided with a cash alternative. 
Ms H says when the phone arrived the screen went blank and it wasnt working properly. Ms 
H says she waited a day to see if the issue resolved itself, but it didnt. And so she called 
D&G who told her it could send out another phone. Ms H says she didnt want another one 
since the last one didnt work. She says D&G told her it could only resolve the claim by 
providing her with another handset. 
Ms H wasnt happy since she was told she could have a cash alternative in settlement of the 
claim and so she complained. 
D&G said when Ms H made a claim for the phone she was told it could be replaced or 
repaired. When Ms H asked what would happen if the new phone was also faulty, she was 
incorrectly told she would be able to have cash in settlement of the claim. D&G apologised 
for the misinformation. It said it would be able to book a new claim to allow its repairers to 
rectify the issue.
Ms H wasnt satisfied with the response from D&G, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for her. She said she was satisfied the claim was 
dealt with in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She said Ms H had told D&G the 
replacement phone was faulty but it hadnt had an opportunity to validate this. D&G told Ms 
H that she can open a claim on the current handset so it can be repaired or replaced. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint on the basis she thought D&G acted reasonably in 
trying to resolve the claim for Ms H.
Ms H disagreed. She said she was told she would be entitled to a cash alternative by two 
different people at D&G and this is what led her to choose a replacement phone rather than 
a repair. Because Ms H didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.     
                                                                                                                           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Ms H. Ill explain my reasoning below. 
Its clear Ms H feels very strongly that D&G should offer her a cash settlement or provide her 
with a brand-new phone given the replacement phone doesnt work. And she was told by 
D&G that cash settlement was an option when she initially called to make the claim. I 
recognise she feels let down by the service she received and I can understand her 
frustration. 
I want to assure Ms H that Ive read and considered everything I have received carefully, 
including the telephone calls. My role is to consider the evidence to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable decision. 
For me to say D&G should do something differently here I need to be satisfied it has done 
something wrong. And to decide this Ive thought about the requirements D&G set out in its 
terms and conditions, as well as its internal business processes, against the information Ms 
H has already provided, to conclude whether I think it has done something wrong. 
The nature of Ms Hs policy with D&G is to cover repairs resulting from damage or 
breakdown to a number of her devices. The policy says in the event a device breaks down 
D&G will, adjust, repair, replace the covered device or pay the cost of replacement. 
D&G are responsible for assessing Ms Hs claim. In order to do this, it needs to inspect the 
phone to ascertain whether it can be repaired or replaced. I have listened to the calls 
between Ms H and D&G. During the initial call Ms H asked about a cash settlement. The 
advisor explained Ms H had to go through the process of a replacement or repair in the first 
instance, and Ms H wasnt able to immediately choose a cash settlement. And when Ms H 
complained to D&G the person dealing with her complaint also confirmed that was the 
process. But I do think D&G could have explained its process to Ms H more thoroughly.
When Ms H contacted D&G again to confirm she wanted a replacement she explained it was 
because her son didnt want to be without a phone. So she chose to replace the phone 
rather than repair it because the replacement would take less time. And I think its more 
likely than not Ms H would have chosen a replacement regardless given her son didnt want 
to be without his phone. 
When arranging the replacement, the advisor explained the phone came with a 30-day 
guarantee so if there were any issues with it in that time Ms H would be entitled to a 
replacement for no further excess fee. I cant see Ms H raised the query about cash 
settlement or brand-new replacement during this call. 
D&G have accepted Ms H was provided with incorrect information when she was told she 
would be able to raise a complaint in order to get a new phone or cash settlement. And it 
apologised for this error. I am unable to compel D&G to settle the claim in the way Ms H 
wants since this isnt something she would currently be entitled to under the terms of the 
policy. 
Insurers are entitled to validate any claims made to them. I dont think this is unreasonable 
as it protects D&G from paying out for a working phone. And Id expect D&G to mitigate its 
risks where possible. I dont think it has acted unfairly in going through a process before a 
cash settlement is explored. I empathise with the position Ms H finds herself in. She is reluctant to have another 
replacement phone since the one she was initially provided with ended up being faulty on 
receipt. But I cant say D&G have acted unfairly in its handling of the claim. It has attempted 
to assist Ms H by remaining as a point of contact with the repairer to ensure the replacement 
phone is in working order prior to being sent to her. It has told us it is still able to arrange a 
replacement if Ms H wants to proceed with the claim. 
I think the crux of the complaint is that Ms H would like to be offered a settlement so she can 
purchase her own phone, and she thought this was an option following telephone calls with 
D&G. But D&G dont want to immediately offer a settlement without exploring other options 
with Ms H first; such as repair or replacement of the phone. 
I can see D&G have attempted to assist Ms H with her faulty phone in line with the terms of 
the policy. So I dont think I can say D&G have acted unfairly, or unreasonably, in not making 
a cash settlement for the claim. And because of this I dont think it needs to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman