DRN-3516908
The complaint
Mr E complained that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) declined to offer him a personal loan at the 
advertised interest rate. 
What happened
Mr E applied for a personal loan with HSBC in August 2021. He phoned HSBC some time 
later to check on progress with the application and was told HSBC was willing to offer a loan, 
but at a higher interest rate. Mr E said HSBC told him there were problems with his credit 
score. Mr E decided not to accept the loan, approached a different bank and took out a loan 
there at a lower interest rate. Mr E then complained to HSBC. 
HSBC responded and said the interest rate advertised on its website is the representative 
rate, and any interest rate provided before an application is complete is only an indication of 
what rate might be offered. It said it uses a process called credit scoring when considering 
applications - so gathering external information from credit reference agencies, internal data 
and information provided by Mr E during the application - and this can lead to a different rate 
being offered. HSBC said the fact the loan was offered shows there were no major issues 
with the external credit scoring, as this would have led to a declined application. HSBC said 
it would not provide further information about its lending criteria. 
Mr E then brought his complaint to this Service. He said he had a perfect credit score when 
he applied for the loan. Mr E said although he wasnt affected financially by whats 
happened, it affected him emotionally and he was anxious and concerned that someone had 
tampered with his account. Mr E asked for an apology, for the individuals responsible to be 
demoted and for compensation for the time wasted and distress caused. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. He said HSBCs website states the rate 
offered is based on an assessment of personal circumstances and so could be different to 
the representative rate. Our Investigator said he appreciated Mr Es frustration at being told 
his credit score was the reason he wasnt offered the lower interest rate, but he said HSBC 
explained that other factors were taken into consideration at the assessment stage.  
Mr E didnt agree with what our Investigator said, so this was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first of all looked at whether HSBC acted fairly when it told Mr E that the interest rate 
advertised at the application stage could be subject to change once the application was 
assessed. And Im satisfied it did. I say this because HSBC makes it clear on its website that 
the advertised rate for personal loans could differ to the rate offered, should it decide to 
accept a consumers loan application. The website says HSBC will offer a rate based on its 
assessment of a consumers individual circumstances. So I cant see that HSBC has 
provided information anywhere during the application process that might have misled Mr E 
about what interest rate it might offer him.  
I know that Mr E was unhappy at being told by HSBC that the lower interest rate wasnt 
being offered because there were concerns with his credit score. Mr E said he has a perfect 
credit rating and has been able to easily access borrowing with HSBC in the past. He said 
his personal circumstances have improved since he last borrowed, so he would like to know 
in what way HSBC considers his circumstances have changed to the extent that it was only 
willing to offer lending at a higher cost. 
I appreciate it must be frustrating for Mr E to have been offered a higher rate than expected. 
But the way in which HSBC assesses customers circumstances for lending is business 
sensitive information and it isnt obliged to disclose its lending criteria or assessment process 
in full to consumers. I think its enough that HSBC told Mr E that it doesnt rely solely on 
information from credit reference agencies  that other information is taken into 
consideration. So, while I understand Mr Es wish to know exactly what information was used 
to assess his request for borrowing, I wont be asking HSBC to disclose any more 
information than it already has. 
I know Mr E was worried about his credit rating and whether HSBC had been provided with 
the correct credit rating by a credit reference agency. But I can see that HSBC has told Mr E 
that if there had been any concerns with the information it received from the credit reference 
agency, then it would have declined his application outright. I cant see that HSBC needs to 
do anything else to provide reassurances to Mr E about his credit rating.
I can see that Mr E has compared what happened with his HSBC application to what 
happened when he applied to another bank for a loan, when he was given a loan at a lower 
rate. He asked HSBC to explain the difference. Different banks will often have different 
lending criteria and different risk appetites. So its not the case that if one bank offers to lend 
at a particular rate, that another has done something wrong if it assesses an application 
differently. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr E but I could only uphold this complaint if I thought 
HSBC had done something wrong, and I dont think it has. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman