DRN-4090130
The complaint
Mr S complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality and 
that Oodle hasnt done enough to put things right.
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle FS in June 2021 to acquire a used 
car. He experienced issues with the car and although these were fixed, the car then broke 
down. Oodle FS issued a final response letter dated 23 November 2021 saying Mr S could 
reject the car and noting a charge for mileage.
The car was recovered in December 2021, the agreement ended, and Mr S was refunded 
his December 2021 payment. Mr S raised further concerns and received a second final 
response letter dated 22 December 2021. This addressed Mr Ss additional issues post the 
return of the car. Mr S wasnt satisfied with the offers made by Oodle FS and referred his 
complaint to our service on 17 June 2022.
Our investigator explained that the complaint was referred more than six months after the 
first final response letter but within six months of the second final response letter. It was 
agreed that the merits of the complaint could be considered.
During the time this complaint was with our service, Oodle FS increased its offer to include 
the refund of two further months payments and increase the compensation payment to 
£300. Mr S had confirmed that the mileage charge had been waived. Our investigator 
thought this offer was reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree that the offer made was sufficient. He said that he was reliant on his car for 
his work and so without the car he was unable to earn. He said it was six weeks before 
Oodle FS offered to pay an amount of £175 for a hire car and by this time he had lost six 
weeks wages and was destitute. He said he couldnt hire a car for £175 a week and had no 
money to make up the difference so he had to refuse the offer. He said he explained his 
situation to Oodle FS on calls and these should be listened to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said that the calls he had with Oodle FS should be listened to. I have received the 
recordings from the calls on 30 September 2021 and have listened to these. The call from 
November 2021 was not able to be provided. On the calls on 30 September 2021, Mr S 
explained the initial issues he experienced with the car and the repairs that were undertaken 
and that further issues had arisen which would need significant work.
Mr S acquired a car through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle FS. Mr S reported issues 
with the car and following further investigation it was agreed the car could be rejected. As 
rejection is a reasonable outcome to the issues Mr S experienced, I havent considered this 
part of this complaint further.
Following the rejection of the car, Mr S raised the following additional issues:
He had been charged a usage fee which he wanted waived; 
He was unable to work without his car and wanted his loss of earnings refunded;
Oodle FS didnt offer a hire/courtesy vehicle until 18 November 2021 and then only 
offered to contribute £175 towards the costs which he said wasnt enough; and
He should be paid £1,000 to cover the stress and damage to his mental health the 
issues with the car had caused. 
In response to these issues, Oodle FS explained how the usage charge had been calculated 
- noting Mr S had driven the car 7,528 miles. It offered to reduce this charge to £548.92 
which was the sum of the monthly payments Mr S had made and so he wasnt required to 
pay any additional amount and said that Mr Ss December 2021 payment had been 
refunded. Oodle FS said its policy was to offer no more than £175 towards a hire car and 
said that Mr S had only notified it on 15 November that he wasnt able to drive the car. It 
didnt agree that it should cover the cost of Mr Ss loss of earnings or pay £1,000 
compensation but instead offered to pay compensation of £150 (this offer has since been 
increased).
When a car is found not to be of satisfactory quality and rejection is agreed, along with the 
ending of the agreement and return of the car, we would consider whether the consumer 
should be refunded any payments they had made while the car wasnt able to be used. In 
this case, Mr S contacted Oodle FS on 30 September 2021 about the issues with his car. 
Having listened to these calls and the nature of the issues he had explained I find it 
reasonable to accept that the car should have been considered unusable from that point. 
In the final response letter dated 22 December 2021, Oodle FS reduced the usage charge to 
reflect the amount of payments Mr S had made and said that his December payment had 
been refunded. Oodle FS has since offered to refund a further two payments. Based on 
Mr Ss statement of account he made a total of five monthly payments  as Oodle FS 
refunded one of these and has offered to refund a further two this will mean Mr S would only 
have paid for two months usage even though he had use of the car for three months. I think 
this is a fair resolution, especially noting the mileage Mr S drove in that time.
Mr S has said he should be refunded his loss of earnings. I am sorry to hear of the extremely 
stressful time Mr S experienced and noting his job was car dependent I can understand why 
he feels more should have been done. However, in this case Oodle FS did offer to pay 
towards a hire car. This would have enabled Mr S to continue with his work and so in this 
case I think he could have mitigated his losses. I note Mr Ss comments about it taking a few 
weeks before the offer of a contribution towards hire car costs was made. But I havent 
evidence to show that before that Mr S had told Oodle FS that the issue meant he was 
unable to work and so I do not find it unreasonable that it continued its investigation into the 
issues with the car and once these were confirmed by the independent inspection and Mr S 
had noted he wasnt able to work it offered to pay towards a hire car. I understand the point 
Mr S has made about the offer not being enough, but I also cannot see that Mr S provided 
evidence to show that the cars he was attempting to hire were more expensive. Without this 
I do not find that Oodle FS was wrong to provide the offer it did in regard to hire car costs. 
And I find that Oodle FS did try to assist Mr S at this time.
Oodle FS initially offered to pay Mr S £150 compensation and has since increased this to 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. Mr S has explained his situation and I am very sorry to hear this. But as Oodle FS did work to resolve his complaint 
and tried to assist him with an offer towards a hire car, I find that the compensation offered is 
reasonable. 
While I understand why Mr S doesnt think Oodle FS has done enough to resolve his 
complaint, as it accepted the rejection of the car, has offered to refund the payments for the 
period the car wasnt in use, waived any mileage charges and offered to pay £300 
compensation, I find this to be a fair offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance 
should, as it has offered, refund Mr S the two monthly payments and pay him £300 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman