DRN-2747066
The complaint
Mr R complains about the decision made by Home Retail Group Card Services Limited 
(Argos) to report a missed payment to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
There doesnt appear to be a dispute that Mr R made a late payment towards his store card. 
Mr R has explained that the minimum payment was only £5, and he only missed the 
deadline by a few days. He therefore thinks that Argos should have been more 
understanding.
Argos are required to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies about how 
consumers accounts are managed. The statements they provide explain the impact that 
missing payments can have on future credit applications so Im afraid, whilst I understand  
Mr Rs frustration, I cant agree that Argos were unreasonable when reporting the missed 
payment.
The charges Argos apply when there are missed payments are detailed in the terms and 
conditions. Whilst I understand the £12 charge is greater than the payment that was missed I 
think its reasonable to say the charge is to reflect the administration required when 
payments arent received on time. That administration will be about the same, regardless of 
the value of the payment missed. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Argos have been unreasonable and Im not asking them to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman