DRN-4298776
The complaint
Mr W complains Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) havent fairly applied his partial 
early settlement payments to his car finance agreement. He believes he has lost out 
financially as a result. 
What happened
In October 2021, Mr W entered into a 60 month hire purchase agreement for a used car. The 
cars cash price was £5,938. The total amount payable under the agreement was £9,097. He 
was required to make monthly payments of around £150.
Mr W says around October 2022, he contacted Startline to say he wanted to make a partial 
early settlement (PES) but he was told their system wasnt working. He said in subsequent 
months when he made the same request, he was told a similar thing which caused him 
upset and frustration. He believes this has caused him financial detriment as hes ended up 
paying more than he should in terms of interest. 
According to Mr W after unsuccessful attempts to request PES quotations, he noticed he 
could make payments via Startlines online account portal. In February 2023, he proceeded 
to make payments of £650 and £545 by debit card. However he was told by Startline, these 
couldnt be processed as PES because he hadnt followed the correct process. He 
complained and also requested a statement of account. 
Startline said Mr W hadnt followed the correct process when making the PES payments. 
However as a gesture of goodwill, they agreed to treat these payments as PES for March 
2023. Concerning the request for the statement of account, they accepted he had been told 
wrong information as to when he should expect to receive it but they confirmed the request 
had been submitted along with a subject access request. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr W referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
said based on the terms of the agreement and the relevant law (section 94 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974), the process to make PES hadnt been followed by Mr W. 
Mr W disagreed and maintained his position. He also commented:
- He contacted Startline in October, December and January to request a PES 
quotation but he was told there was a system error. Meaning the delay caused him to 
pay more in interest and charges;
- He is autistic but Startline didnt take this into consideration when investigating 
matters and he feels hes been discriminated against;
- He asked Startline on the correct process to make a PES but he received no 
response. He considered this to be a reasonable adjustment request given his 
autism;
- Hes made subsequent payments in May 2023 but these havent been applied as 
PES and he questions the overall amount to be paid under the agreement;
- He made several additional payments but questions why they hadnt been processed 
altogether as PES; 
- Startline are causing delays in processing the PES payments (up to two months), 
meaning he is unable to make them as regularly as he wants;
- He believes the outstanding balance is higher than it should be. He was told this was 
due to interest and fees applied by the broker but he wasnt told about this;
- The situation had caused him a lot of anxiety and stress and he seeks £10,000 
compensation from Startline.
Following Mr Ws further response, the investigator reviewed matters. He said it was unclear 
when and why Startline had issues generating the PES quotes but the delay meant Mr W 
had paid more in interest and charges. He also said Startline shouldve been more clear to 
Mr W about the correct process to make a PES including only one could be made within a 
28 day period. He recommended Startline pay £100 compensation to Mr W. 
Startline agreed. Mr W disagreed and maintained his position. 
Mr W settled the agreement in full in July 2023.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to partially uphold Mr Ws complaint. I will explain why. 
The relevant law that applies to early repayments is set out in section 94 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). So Ive taken this into account when looking at this complaint. 
Ive also referred to the terms of the agreement. It says:
On giving us notice in writing or orally, in the manner set out on the front pages, you may at 
any time either repay in full the whole amount due under this Agreement; or repay part of the 
amount due under this Agreement by telling us the amount you want to repay.
If you do not give us notice under this Condition but make an overpayment, we may treat 
that overpayment as notice by you of a partial repayment, but it shall be in our discretion 
whether we do so or not.
On making any repayment under Condition 12.1 you will have a right to a rebate under the 
CCA which we shall calculate in accordance with the CCA (and we can then claim additional 
interest as permitted by the CCA).
It also goes on to say:
If you only make partial repayment, we will apply that repayment to reduce your future 
Repayments. But you may ask us instead to keep the Repayments the same but reduce the 
Duration of the Agreement. Upon receiving such request, we will, in our absolute discretion, 
decide whether to do this or not
Having read the terms in full, its clear Mr W can make early repayments such as a PES but 
he must give Startline notice of his intention to do so. Such notice must be given in writing or 
by calling them and the payment must be by cheque or bank transfer. Mr W signed this 
agreement in October 2021 so I cant say he wasnt made aware of the same.
Unfortunately I havent been provided with the call recordings so Ive relied on Startlines call 
notes. I can see Mr W contacted them in October 2022. The call note says Cust called to confirm online ID number - advised of PES and ESF options - customer still considering. 
This suggests Mr W made queries about making early settlement payments and the two 
options were outlined to him (partial and full settlement). In light of the same, Im not 
persuaded Mr W gave the required notice during that call for his intention to make a PES, it 
seems he was considering his options. So I cant say he was told the system wasnt working 
during that call.
Mr W says he made a further call in December 2022 but Startlines call notes dont show 
such a call. However I can see one was made in February 2023, it says:
Cust called about making PES - apologised to cust for PES not working at the moment so 
unable to advise how much DDs would reduce by. Confirmed how PES process works and 
when DD will be reduced from next month onward when bank transfer is made in time before 
DD this month is due. SQ created, verbally confirmed and emailed to cust as agreed to 
provide our bank details for cust to make bank transfer for PES. Ad he will be contacted to 
check the bank transfer is for a PES and provided cust with details allowing him to register 
for online portal.
Based on this call note, it was at this point Startline advised their system wasnt working so 
they couldnt say how much the monthly payments would reduce by following a PES being 
made. However it doesnt seem this wouldve stopped Mr W from making such a payment, 
the process was outlined to him including the need to pay by bank transfer. There is a 
suggestion an email was sent to him outlining the details but I havent seen a copy of the 
same and the contact notes dont show one was sent. On balance, Im not persuaded this 
email was sent by Startline which may explain why Mr W decided to make a payment of 
£650 via the online portal on 8 February 2023. On balance had the email been received, I 
find Mr W wouldve followed the instruction.
There are several calls thereafter but I note during the call on 7 March 2023, Mr W 
expressed his unhappiness about the above payment not being applied to the account as a 
PES. He confirmed he had made another payment of £545 on 21 February 2023. Based on 
the notes, Startlines advisor outlined the PES process and advised him not to make any 
further payments until his two earlier ones had been dealt with. I consider that to be fair and 
they were clear in their instruction.
Despite this, Mr W went on to make another payment for £100 on 7 March 2023. Overall I 
find both parties contributed to the confusion. On the face of it, Startline failed to send an 
email to provide Mr W with the bank account details for the PES to be paid and out of 
frustration of the delay and the lack of communication, Mr W made overpayments (£650, 
£545 and £100 respectively). To resolve matters and as a gesture of goodwill, Startline 
agreed to total up all three payments (£1295) and apply them as a PES in March 2023. 
Given the situation, I consider this a fair course of action. In line with the relevant law and 
terms, rebate was applied to the account thereby reducing the balance.
On 8 March 2023, Mr W contacted Startline to say he intended to make a PES of £500. I 
note this was within a day or two of the last overpayment and the conversation with Starline 
where they asked him not to make any further overpayments until they had dealt with those 
already made. Startline has said only one PES can be processed in a month and given the 
administration in doing so, I dont find this wholly unreasonable. 
Based on the account statement, I can see the £500 payment and others made thereafter 
were applied as PES and Mr W went on to settle the agreement in full in July 2023. Overall, 
Im satisfied Startline applied the PES in line with their terms and rebate applied. I dont 
agree they unnecessarily delayed in processing them. So I cant say they did anything 
wrong, the process was outlined to Mr W on more than one occasion. Based on the extent of the communication between Mr W and Startline, its clear he was 
keen and in the financial position to settle the agreement early and to make several PES in 
order to do so. I note he asked for the statement of account in early February 2023 so he 
could see what had been paid and what was left to be paid. As the information wasnt 
forthcoming, he felt he had no alternative but to make a subject access request to receive it. 
He believes this was an unnecessary step and I agree with him. I find his request for the 
statement of account a fair one and I would expect it to be provided in a reasonable period of 
time but that didnt happen so I can understand his frustration and upset. It took around a 
month to receive it.
Other
I can see Mr W has told our service he is unhappy with other issues related to the total 
amount he had to pay and he believes they discriminated against him due to his autism. 
However based on what Ive seen, he didnt raise these issues to Startline when he raised 
this complaint meaning they havent had the opportunity to investigate them. Therefore I 
wont be addressing these concerns in this decision. Mr W would have to raise this as a 
separate complaint with Startline should he wish to do so. 
Summary 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Startline acted fairly and in line with their terms 
in relation to PES payments made by Mr W. It follows, I dont agree he has been caused 
financial detriment. However for the delays in providing his statement of account and overall 
level of service, I agree with the investigator they should pay £100 compensation to Mr W for 
the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
To put things right, Startline Motor Finance Limited should pay £100 compensation to Mr W 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman