DRN-4449159
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy Wakam declined a claim she made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2023, following bad weather, water came through the chimney area of
Ms Ms home causing damage to the plasterwork. Ms M made a claim to Wakam, her home
insurance provider.
Wakam appointed a contractor to inspect the damage. They said the ingress of water had
been caused by a shrub growing from the chimney rather than due to storm damage. 
Wakam declined the claim on the basis of a wear and tear exclusion in Ms Ms policy.
Ms M was unhappy with Wakams position, so she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said that
Wakam hadnt acted unfairly by saying there were no storm conditions around the date of
loss. The investigator also said that Ms Ms own contractors report said the damage was
caused by gradual damage and wear and tear which is excluded.
Ms M didnt agree and the case was passed to me to decide.
I reached a partly different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a partly different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reach my final decision.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont 
succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Were there storm conditions?
Our investigator said that Wakam hadnt acted unfairly by saying there were no storm
conditions prior to the loss. I dont think that was correct. From what Ive seen, I dont 
think Wakam disputed there were storm conditions, but instead declined the claim 
based on a policy exclusion (which Ill consider separately below).
Ms Ms policy doesnt define what Wakam considers to be storm conditions. Ive seen 
the weather records for the period leading up to the date of water ingress. There 
were windspeeds of up to 52mph, and Im satisfied this could be considered storm 
type winds  and it appears that Wakam also accepts this. There was also heavy rain 
around that time too, and it was an ingress of water which led Ms M to make her 
claim.
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
There was an ingress of water which caused damage, and this could be storm type 
damage, in the right conditions.
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Wakam says that the water ingress was caused by a shrub growing from the 
chimney, so they say this was the dominant cause, rather than the storm weather. 
Wakam has relied on the following exclusion to decline Ms Ms claim:
We will not pay for:
Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear or any other gradual operating 
cause
Having considered Wakams report, I dont find it overly persuasive as it is very 
limited in content, and aside from seeing the vegetation, they havent demonstrated 
how this led to the water ingress which then caused the internal damage.
Ms M provided her own expert report from a roofer. This said:
Following inspection of your roof we found ingress to be coming through the
chimney / flashing details following the recent storm and heavy rain. We 
noted the vegetation in the vicinity although this doesnt seem to be culprit as 
it has been here for many years it would appear and there is no evidence of 
legacy or historic water damage before this point.From your description it is very likely due that period of driving rain that this 
was heavy enough to force its way under the flashing (possibly via the blown 
mortar that may have happened following recent very cold weather and 
frosts). We inspected the neighbours pointing and deduced that this is 
unlikely to be responsible as they have not reported any water damage and 
there is no way of knowing the exact point of entry until the area is broken out 
and remade.
So, this report doesnt conclude that the vegetation was the cause of the water 
ingress. Instead, it says its likely water has either been forced under the flashing, or 
via blown mortar.
However, I wouldnt expect well maintained mortar to either be damaged or allow 
water to penetrate in the weather conditions present unless it was already suffering a 
pre-existing issue. And blown mortar is something that would occur gradually over 
time. Therefore, I dont think Wakam is acting unfairly by declining the claim for storm 
damage if water has entered via blown mortar.
However, the report also says it could have been forced under the flashing. Ms M 
has accidental damage cover under her policy. This is defined as:
Unexpected and unintended damage or breakage caused by a single and 
one-off event resulting from a sudden and external means.
I understand there was a sudden ingress of water following the period of bad weather 
and this caused the damage being claimed for internally. And whilst the accidental 
damage section of the policy also has a wear and tear and gradual damage 
exclusion (which Im satisfied would apply to the external mortar damage), nothing 
has been provided which shows that the internal damage has been caused gradually.
I also understand that no internal damage was caused prior to the bad weather in
January 2023, and no water has penetrated since then either. So, Im persuaded 
instead that the internal damage was caused by a sudden one-off incident of water 
ingress, whether via the mortar or under the flashing, following the weather at the 
time.
Therefore, whilst I dont think Wakam is acting unfairly by declining the storm 
damage claim for external and internal damage, unless anything changes as a result 
of the responses to my provisional decision, Ill be directing Wakam to deal with the 
internal damage under the accidental damage section of Ms Ms policy and in line 
with the remaining policy terms.
Furthermore, whilst I accept that the external damage isnt covered, I think Wakam 
should have considered the internal damage under accidental damage based on all 
the information Ms M provided, including her own contractors report. So, in addition 
to dealing with the accidental damage claim, Im also minded to direct Wakam to 
compensate Ms M £100.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Wakam to:
Deal with the internal damage under the accidental damage section of Ms Ms policy 
and in line with the remaining policy terms
Pay Ms M £100 compensationThe responses to my provisional decision
Ms M responded and agreed with the provisional decision. She reiterated the damage was 
caused by a one-off incident of water ingress. She said there has been considerable rain 
since then, and no further ingress or damage has occurred.
Ms M also said that the vegetation on the chimney is from the neighbours side, it has been 
there for years, and no water has entered either her or her neighbours property before this 
one-off incident. She also said the contractor who visited at the time from Wakam said hed 
be recommending the internal damage be covered. And she also said the situation had 
caused her distress and she appreciated the compensation outlined in the provisional 
decision for this.
Wakam responded to the provisional decision, but they didnt agree. They said the 
accidental damage policy cover had its own exclusion for dampness, so the damage 
wouldnt be covered under accidental damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached, and the responses to it. 
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
Ms M provided a response and outlined that she was in agreement with the provisional 
decision I reached and reiterated the previous points she had made. These were taken into 
account when reaching my provisional decision, so I wont revisit them in detail.
Wakam didnt agree the claim should be considered under accidental damage cover. They 
say that when the claim was reported the description was that the ceiling was damp. They 
referred to the following exclusion under the accidental damage part of the policy:
There is no cover for:
e) damage caused by dryness, dampness, extremes of temperature and exposure to 
light
However, I dont agree with Wakam that this exclusion would apply here. Ill explain why.
For the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, Im satisfied the damage was caused by 
a one-off incident of water ingress. This is different to damage being caused by dampness, 
for example rising damp. As outlined by Ms M several times, no water has entered either 
before the one-off incident, or since. And the damage solely happened on that single 
occasion. This supports it was a one-off ingress which caused damage, rather than 
dampness damage.
So, I dont think the damage has been caused by dampness, and instead Im persuaded it 
has been caused by a one-off incident of water ingress. I dont think its fair to say that it is 
dampness by relying on how Ms M reported the claim either. She wasnt making a claim for 
dampness damage, she was making a claim for a one-off incident of water ingress which 
had made her internal walls wet and damaged.This is also supported by the images taken. The wall is visibly saturated, rather than 
suffering dampness. The image of the moisture readings also supports that, as the reading 
is 999. And Ms Ms contractor, who provided a more detailed report of the damage, also 
confirmed it was a one-off ingress of water which caused damage and there was no historic 
or legacy water damage (or dampness) before then.
I think all the above supports that a one-off ingress of water caused the damage, rather than 
damage caused by dampness. So, Ive still decided that Wakam need to deal with the 
internal damage under accidental damage and the remaining policy terms, and they will still 
need to compensate Ms M £100 too.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Wakam to:
Deal with the internal damage under the accidental damage section of Ms Ms policy 
and in line with the remaining policy terms
Pay Ms M £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman