DRN-2431765
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with Lloyds Bank PLCs response to her fraud claim. 
She told the bank shed been scammed by a builder. Shed paid money to them, but the 
work hadnt been completed.
What happened
Mrs A wanted some substantial works carried out on her property. Shed used a building 
company before (Ill refer to the company as G) and so decided to use them again. 
Some initial work was undertaken to prepare for the major works. But it was limited to some 
preparatory works ahead of the major elements of the job. There had also been some 
measuring up carried out. 
Mrs A started sending money to G on 2 March 2019 to get the work started and to pay for 
some materials. Payments continued for almost two months. But Mrs A has said little to no 
work was done in all of that time. 
The payments ranged from as little as £60 up to £10,000. Altogether Mrs A sent G over 
£30,000.
Mrs A stopped sending money, and realised something was wrong, when G stopped 
responding to her attempts to contact them and there had still been no materials delivered.
Mrs A contacted Lloyds on 3 May 2019 and said shed been scammed. Lloyds looked into 
what had happened but said it was unable to help. It said it didnt consider a scam had taken 
place because Mrs A knew G and had used them before. Lloyds said that made it a civil 
dispute.
Lloyds did, despite what it said about it not being a scam, contact the bank Mrs A had sent 
the money to. That bank said that no funds remained in the account and so it couldnt return 
anything.
Mrs A brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. She 
didnt find that Lloyds had acted unfairly in the circumstances of the case. 
She thought about the possibility that the bank might have stepped in to question the 
payments at the time they were being made. But she considered, had it done so, Mrs A 
would have explained she was making payments to a known builder who had completed 
works satisfactorily before. And so she felt it was unlikely the bank would have had concerns 
about the new payments.
She could also see that Lloyds did contact the receiving bank to try and recover Mrs As 
money. But as nothing remained in the recipient account there was nothing more Lloyds 
could do.
Mrs A was unhappy with the investigators answer and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. She referred to chargebacks and section 75 in her response. Our investigator 
explained those forms of protection dont apply to bank transfers and arranged for the case 
to be passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs A. It seems as though a previously trusted 
builder has unfairly taken her money without completing the work they were contracted for. I 
can see that Lloyds has questioned whether this was a scam or a civil dispute. I can see why 
theyve done so, given the circumstances. It is unusual for a known, once trusted source to 
go on to be involved in a situation like this. But its not necessary for me to make a finding on 
whether this was or wasnt a scam. Thats because, either way, I dont find it would change 
the overall outcome of the complaint.
The greater obligation, in terms of action wed expect from a bank like Lloyds, would be 
established if this clearly was a scam. In such cases wed consider what the bank ought to 
have done at each stage: from the sending of the money through to the reporting of the 
scam, to the attempted recovery of the funds. And in considering what the banks actions 
were, or even might have been, I dont find there are grounds on which to say it must now 
bear responsibility for Mrs As loss. Ill address the different stages and obligations now.
Mrs A authorised the transfers out of her account. And so the starting position, with regard to 
the relevant regulations (Payment Service Regulations 2017) and Mrs As account terms and 
conditions, is that she is liable for them. 
But there are times when it would be appropriate for a bank to question transactions that 
have been authorised. Broadly speaking, there are obligations on a bank to monitor 
accounts for risk of fraud and to prevent customers suffering financial harm. That might 
include questioning larger than normal payments out of an account, for example. And, if its 
found that a bank ought to have stepped in, and that suitable questions would have likely 
revealed a scam, the bank might become liable for the loss.
Im not necessarily persuaded that the bank ought to have questioned Mrs A about any of 
the payments here. Thats because they arent far outside of her normal account usage in 
the preceding months and they were going to an established payee. But even if I did think 
the bank ought to have asked some questions, I dont believe it would have made a 
difference. And this is for broadly the same reasons as explained by our investigator. It also 
ties in with what the bank has said, in terms of why it believes this case is a civil dispute 
rather than a scam. 
Had the bank asked Mrs A about the purpose of the transfers she would have explained she 
was having building work done. She would also have explained she had used the builder 
before and had been happy with their work. It was also the case that the money was going to 
the same account as before. And I can see Mrs A has said to the bank some initial works 
(though ultimately very limited) had been carried out at the time  at least some of  the 
payments were made. 
I believe its more likely than not the bank would have had little cause for concern in light of 
this information. And I believe its more likely than not Mrs A would have proceeded to make the transfers. This means theres not persuasive evidence or information to say the bank has 
failed to protect Mrs A from financial harm. In turn, it cant fairly and reasonably be said that 
Lloyds should now repay Mrs A her loss. 
Lloyds did try to recover the money for Mrs A. It contacted the receiving bank the same day 
Mrs A reported what had happened. But, unfortunately, no funds remained and so nothing 
could be returned. Im afraid to tell Mrs A theres no more Lloyds could have done to recover 
the funds. It isnt for the bank to try and continue to pursue the recipient bank or account 
holder.
Ive also thought about chargebacks and section 75 (of the Consumer Credit Act) as Mrs A 
has referred to them. Im satisfied they dont apply in Mrs As case as she sent the money to 
G by way of bank transfer. Chargeback and section 75 only apply to card payments, with the 
latter only being applicable to credit cards, and where the money has gone direct to the 
merchant. They dont apply when a card might have been used to authorise a bank transfer 
online or in branch.
I can see from her submissions to this service that Mrs A and her family have been 
struggling as a result of the actions of G. Its clearly affected them financially as well as 
mentally and emotionally. I can only imagine how distressing this must have been for them. I 
am satisfied though that the bank hasnt been at fault here though and so I wont be 
instructing it to do anything more.
If Mrs A is experiencing financial difficulties, she might consider getting in touch with a free 
debt counselling service. We can provide details of such organisations on request.
It does appear G is still a registered limited company and is still trading. And so Mrs A might 
be able to pursue it through the courts. That isnt something this service can help with or 
advise on. She might consider seeking some legal advice, contact with the Citizens Advice 
Bureau or Trading Standards for information on how she might proceed there.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman