DRN-4073380
The complaint
Mr P complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market (Quidmarket) gave him
loans without carrying out proper affordability checks. Mr P says had further checks been
carried out Quid Market wouldve discovered he had to take out new loans to repay what he
already owed.
What happened
Mr P took three loans from Quid Market between April 2019 and September 2020. Ive
outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountdate loan 
was fundedrepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £350.00 19/04/2019 23/10/2019 6 £116.65
2 £750.00 23/10/2019 23/04/2020 6 £249.99
3 £1,500.00 02/09/2020 01/03/2021 6 £469.87
Following Mr Ps complaint, Quid Market issued its final response letter (FRL). In summary,
it said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were affordable.
Although, Quid   uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill it offered to
remove these loans from Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who partly upheld it. She didnt think
Quid Market had made an error when loan 1 was provided. But she upheld Mr Ps complaint
about loans 2 and 3 because the credit search results Quid Market received showed it that
Mr P was having problems managing his money.
Quid Market disagreed with the adjudicators findings. In summary it said the checks it
carried out showed it that Mr P had enough disposable income to afford his loan
repayments. It also said Mr Ps overall indebtedness reduced from just over £14,000 at loan
one to nearly £9,000 by the time loan three was granted.
It said the fact Mr P had defaults showing on his credit report doesnt preclude him from
applying and / or being approved for further lending.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was passed to me. I then issued my 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Both Mr P and Quid Market were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon 
as possible, but no later than 10 April 2023.
Quid Market responded to say that it agreed with the provisional findings and its offer as 
outlined in the final response letter  to remove these loans from Mr Ps credit file - is still 
available. 
Mr P responded to say that he would provide his credit file and bank statements. The 
adjudicator let Mr P know what period of time the statements needed to cover. However, 
despite being chased on a number of occasions no further updates and / or the bank 
statements have been received from Mr P. 
And as I have enough information, in order to bring this matter to a close for both parties, I 
have taken the decision to issue the final decision. A copy of the provisional findings follows 
this in smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quid Market should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P.
Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint about loan one. And neither Mr P nor
Quid Market appear to disagree with this outcome. So, I no longer think this loan is in
dispute and so I say no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether it was right
or wrong for Quid Market to have approved loans 2 and 3.
Loan 2
Quid Market has shown, as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr P for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Ps income has been according to Quidmarket
electronically verified and has been recorded as £4,400 each month.
Mr P also declared his monthly outgoings were £2,136. This left disposal income of around
£2,264 per month. However, following further checks (including a credit search which
I comment on below) Quid Market increased Mr Ps monthly expenditure to £2,166.
Even with a slightly smaller disposable income figure there was sufficient disposable income
for Quid Market to believe Mr P could afford the largest planned repayment of around £250.
The loan therefore looked affordable.
Before this loan was approved Quid Market also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Quid Market carried out a credit search there
wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Therefore, its possible that the information Quid Market received may not entirely reflect the
information Mr P may be able to see in his own credit report. There could be for a number of
reasons for this, such as Quid Market only asking for certain pieces of information. But what
Quid Market couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
Quid Market was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference
agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained
within it that wouldve either prompted Quid Market to have carried out further checks or
possibly have declined Mr Ps application.
From the credit check results provided by Quid Market I can see that Mr P had 17 active
credit accounts owing these providers just over £10,400 and Mr P was utilising 96% of his
available credit.
Quid Market was also on notice that Mr P had opened three new credit accounts within the
last six months. Finally, Quid Market was on notice that in the last 60 months, Mr P had
opened 54 credit accounts albeit 34 of them were now closed.
Quid Market was given information which showed Mr P had defaulted on 9 credit accounts,
but 7 of them had been recorded in 2014 and 2016, which I think was too long before this
loan was approved to have given Quid Market cause for concern.
However, there had been two defaults recorded within 2019. One in January 2019 for £71
and the other one at the end of April 2019 for a loan with a balance of £412. The credit file
showed that by the time this loan was applied for the April 2019 default had been satisfied.
On top of this Quid Market knew there was one satisfied County Court Judgement (CCJ)
which had been recorded in January 2017. There was also one active CCJ which had been
recorded in January 2018.
Mr P had also closed six credit accounts since January 2019 and only one of them was a
payday loan  the rest were either current accounts or mail order accounts. This wasnt
something that wouldve caused Quid Marketa concern because there wasnt a pattern of
Mr P repaying credit and then opening new credit facilities shortly afterwards.
But Quid Market ought to have realised that information it gathered about the outstandingcredit commitments Mr P had at the time was likely inaccurate. It has, as part of its
affordability assessment worked out that Mr Ps credit commitments were £146 per month.
My view is that this was not credible. I say this because it knew Mr P had total outstanding
debts of over £10,400 and so its likely a monthly repayment of more than £146 would be
needed in order to service and repay these debts. And as part of its credit search it already
knew that Mr P had an outstanding payday loan where he was paying £117 per month.
Quid Market was also aware of a number of mail order accounts which also needed
servicing.
But in saying that while the defaults were concerning especially that two had been recorded
in 2019, I dont think that on its own wouldve led Quid Market to decline the application for
the loan. There wasnt as far as it was aware from the credit search results any other
repayment problems on outstanding credits and there wasnt a history of Mr P taking out and
repaying payday loans.
So, unlike the adjudicator, I dont think this wouldve prompted Quid Market to have declined
the application. But I do think the credit search history as well as the fact that Mr P had come
back for further borrowing on the same day that his first loan was repaid ought to have led
Quid Market to have carried out further checks.
Therefore, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Ps actual financial position to
ensure the loan was affordable and sustainable. This couldve been done in several ways,
such as asking for evidence of his outgoings, looking at bank statements and/or collecting
any other documentation it felt it needed to obtain in order to have satisfied itself the loan
was affordable for Mr P. This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed
whether there was any other information that Quid Market mightve needed to consider
about Mr Ps financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Quid Market carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it
wouldve likely discovered that Mr P couldnt afford it, or Quid Market was given evidence
that indicated the loan was unsustainable in some other way.
Mr P hasnt provided a copy of his credit file, bank statements or any other documentation
covering the period leading up to the loan being advanced. Without anything further, I cant
be sure what Quid Market may have seen had it carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly
uphold the complaint about the loan.
Im therefore intending not to uphold Mr Ps complaint about loan 2.
Loan 3
The same checks were carried out before this loan was approved, as Quid Market had
carried out for loan 2.
Mr P this time declared an increase in his income to £5,600 per month and he declared total
outgoings of £1,240. As before, Quid Market carried out further checks and this time it
decreased Mr Ps outgoings to £1,143. This was because Mr P had declared credit
commitments of £550 whereas Quid Market had calculated them to be £313.
Whether Quid Market used the expenditure figure provided by Mr P or the one it calculated it
wouldve still thought Mr P had sufficient disposable income to afford the monthly repayment
of nearly £470 per month.
A credit search was also carried out, this time Mr Ps overall debt had decreased to just
under £9,000. He had 13 active accounts. He had the same number of CCJs and no further
defaults had been applied. In addition, on the active accounts these all had good repayment
records without any missed payment markers.
For this loan, Mr Ps declared income was now back to the level that it was when he appliedfor loan 1. However, Ive also considered the significant increase in Mr Ps commitment to
Quid Market as well as what the credit checks results showed it. The credit checks showed
that while his overall debt was decreasing Mr P was still seeking and being granted new
credit facilities. Like loan 2, Quidmarkets checks needed to go further than what it did.
However, as before I dont have bank statements or any other documentation that shows me
what Quid Market may have seen had it carried out what I consider to be a proportionate
check. Therefore, for the same reasons as loan 2, I am intending to not uphold Mr Ps
complaint about this loan.
In saying that, Quid Market has made an offer in the final response letter to remove these
loans from Mr Ps credit file. So, on the basis that the offer is still available (Quid Market can
confirm this) then this offer is fair and reasonable in resolution to the complaint based on the
evidence I currently have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings that I made in the provisional decision. 
Quid Market ought to have carried out further checks before loans 2 and 3 were advanced 
but as I havent had sight of Mr Ps bank statements, I cant be sure what
Quid Market wouldve likely discovered about Mr Ps finances and whether the loans were 
still affordable for him. 
I am therefore not upholding Mr Ps complaint, but Quid Market has said the gesture of 
goodwill as outlined in the final response letter to remove these loans from his credit file is 
still available, and so if it hasnt already done so, it should carry out this action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ps complaint.
But Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market should do what it agreed to do in the final 
response letter and remove these loans from Mr Ps credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman