DRN-2959025
The complaint
Mrs R says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs R bought the policy in 1995, at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs R and AXA a provisional decision on 6 July 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found this PPI policy to have been mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
Mrs Rs store card application had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of what the policy 
was for, and had two options to choose from: one to pay for PPI and one to turn it down. The 
option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mrs R signed the 
form to confirm her choices.
Mrs Rs representatives said Mrs R just followed the staff members instructions in order to 
get the card. But I can see that in order to fill the application, the staff member would have 
needed a number of Mrs Rs personal details. They would need to have discussed the form 
with Mrs R in order to get this information, and so I think its most likely they discussed the 
section for PPI, too. Further, Im afraid there was an onus on Mrs R to read what she was 
signing for, and I think this application did make it clear the policy was optional. And Ive not 
seen any wider problems with the sales process from the time, nor anything which shows 
that Mrs R was misled into buying PPI here.
Mrs Rs representatives also said she later tried to cancel the policy, which showed she 
never wanted it. But while I understand where theyre coming from, its quite normal for 
people to cancel products or subscriptions  it happens all the time, and it doesnt show that 
the product was necessarily mis-sold. Peoples circumstances and preferences change over 
time, or sometimes they simply change their mind. I can see that the paperwork offered 
Mrs R a clear choice about whether she wanted PPI, and its recorded that she did. So even 
if she later changed her mind, it still seems most likely that Mrs R was made aware she had 
a choice about buying PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time of the original sale  
though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt give Mrs R tailored financial advice about buying PPI  this was a non-advised 
sale. That means AXA did not have to check whether the policy was right for Mrs R. They 
did have to give Mrs R enough information to decide for herself whether the policy was right 
for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs R about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But that, on its own, does not necessarily mean the PPI was mis-sold. Instead, the 
question is whether I think better information was likely to have put her off. Here, it looks like 
Mrs R chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she was eligible for the policy 
and was not significantly affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI would 
have paid out on top of Mrs Rs existing work benefits and savings and covered her for 
longer. It also meant she could effectively protect those savings and use them for things 
other than potentially covering her store card. So the policy could have been useful for Mrs R 
in case something went wrong. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was 
likely to have put her off taking it out.
Lastly, Mrs Rs representatives say she later tried to cancel the policy via the lender, but they 
wouldnt let her. In this case, Im only looking at AXA  who were the insurer, rather than the 
lender in question  and their responsibility for the sale of the PPI. But Mrs R may be able to 
make a separate complaint about the administration of the policy, and may be able to ask for 
our help as a separate case if she then needs it.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
3 August 2021. AXA didnt send me anything new to consider. Mrs Rs representatives 
sent in some further arguments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Rs representatives questioned why wed asked about her medical history if it didnt end 
up changing the decision. We asked those questions in order to check whether her medical 
history might have been relevant, as shed mentioned having had an operation before this 
sale. It emerged it was not relevant  but we could only know that by asking. When we ask 
about a customers circumstances, it is not a guarantee that it will change the outcome of the 
case. We consider each case on its individual merits.
Mrs Rs representatives now say she was coerced into accepting PPI. That seems rather 
different from what they previously said  which was that Mrs R had just signed where she 
was told, had not discussed the PPI in detail, and had just thought it was part of the 
agreement.
Ive thought carefully about this. Ive not seen any evidence which substantiates or shows 
that Mrs R was coerced or unfairly pressured into buying PPI. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with the sales process from the time. This new testimony appears to be quite 
different from the prior testimony. And from what I can see, the agreement offered Mrs R a 
clear choice about whether shed like PPI or not, and its recorded that she chose it. So 
I dont think I can fairly conclude that Mrs R was unfairly pressured into buying PPI here.
Further, as I explained before, the staff member would need to have discussed the form with 
Mrs R in order to fill it out  so I think its most likely they discussed the section for PPI, too. 
There was also an onus on Mrs R to read what she was signing for. And I think this form 
made it clear the policy was optional. Even if Mrs R later decided to cancel the policy, its 
quite normal for people to willingly take something out and then change their mind and 
cancel it later down the line.So I still think its most likely that Mrs R was made aware she had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time of the sale.
Mrs Rs representatives say she wouldve had no reason to want this protection, not least as 
she got sick pay. But as I explained in the provisional decision, the PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of Mrs Rs work benefits and covered her for longer. It also meant she could effectively 
protect any savings she had. It looks like Mrs R was eligible for the cover and was not 
significantly affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. And it looks like she chose 
to take it out. So I think the PPI couldve been useful for Mrs R in her circumstances, and 
I dont think that better information about it was likely to have put her off it.
Mrs Rs representatives reiterated the trouble shed had with the lender in trying to cancel 
the PPI. They say they want this dealt with as part of this case, and not a separate case. But 
the fact remains that AXA are the insurer, not the lender. This complaint is against AXA, 
about the sale of the policy. It is not against the lender, or about the administration. If Mrs R 
would like to complain about administration issues with the lender, she would need to do so 
separately. I am not able to consider that as part of this mis-selling case against AXA.
So having reconsidered the complaint, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about the sale of this policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman