DRN-3766359
The complaint
Mr B complains about Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AAIS) and their 
refusal to cancel his policy after receiving instruction to do so by email.
What happened
Mr B took out an insurance policy in May 2021. This arrangement and payment of the policy 
was the responsibility of AAIS. When Mr B took out the policy, he agreed to make a 
continuous payment, meaning the policy would automatically renew each year unless 
cancellation was received.
Before the policy was due to renew in 2022, AAIS issued a renewal notice to Mr B. And Mr B 
emailed AAIS following this, asking for the policy to be cancelled. But AAIS only accepted a 
cancellation made over the phone and so, the policy was renewed, and payment was taken. 
Mr B was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Mr B didnt think AAIS were fair to renew the policy and take the premium payment when 
hed made it clear through email he wanted to cancel the policy. He didnt think it was 
reasonable that AAIS would only take this cancellation request over the phone and he 
thought the e-mail shouldve been enough. So, Mr B wanted to be compensated for this 
upset this caused.
AAIS responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they acted fairly when 
renewing the policy, as they felt it was made clear to Mr B that cancellation could only be 
arranged over the phone. But as a gesture of good will, they cancelled the policy and 
refunded the premiums to Mr B.
Mr B remained unhappy with this response as he felt he should be compensated for the time 
hed spent complaining to AAIS, and the inconvenience this caused. So, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained our service is 
unable to comment upon, or asked businesses to change, their business process. And they 
thought the way AAIS asked customers to cancel their policy fell under this. They thought 
AAIS had made it reasonably clear to Mr B that cancellation would need to be arranged over 
the phone and they didnt think AAIS were made aware of this difficulty this posed Mr B due 
to his profession. So, they didnt think AAIS had acted unfairly and didnt think AAIS needed 
to do anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree. And he explained AAIS had communicated with him over email and so 
shouldve been able to accept his email cancellation. As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. I dont doubt it was his 
intention to cancel the policy before it automatically renewed. And as Mr B has 
communicated with AAIS in the main by e-mail previously, I can understand why hed 
assume an email cancellation would be enough to stop the renewal. So, when Mr B saw 
hed been charged for the renewal after this, I can understand why hed be upset. And I can 
appreciate why hed be left frustrated with AAIS stating only a call would suffice, when his 
job made it difficult to do this within AAIS working hours. I can appreciate the inconvenience 
this wouldve caused, and I can understand why Mr B feels as though he should be 
compensated for this.
But for me to say AAIS should compensate Mr B, I first need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act within the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mr B held when they stipulated any cancellation must be made over 
the phone. Or, if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair for them to do so. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy. And under the cancellation section of this 
policy, it explains that Continuous Members must contact us on {AAIS number} in order to 
cancel their {breakdown cover}. On Mr Bs policy schedule, sent to him at the policy 
inception and within the renewal notice, it states Mr B had chosen to make your future 
policy by continuous Credit/Debit card. So, Im satisfied Mr B was classed as a continuous 
member and because of this, he was required to call AAIS if he wished to cancel the policy. 
And because of this, I dont think I can say AAIS acted outside of the terms and conditions 
when they continued to process Mr Bs renewal, as its accepted Mr B didnt call them as 
stipulated.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether it was fair of AAIS to do so. 
While I cant comment upon, or ask AAIS to change, their business process that states 
cancellations must be done over the telephone, I can think about whether this was fair to Mr 
Bs individual situation. And Mr B has explained due to the nature of this job, he was unable 
to make calls within AAIS working hours. Given the nature of Mr Bs job, I accept this is the 
case.
But crucially, I cant see that AAIS were made aware of this until after Mr B had raised his 
complaint. And more importantly, AAIS werent made aware of this before the policy 
automatically renewed. So, I dont think they were given the opportunity to consider 
reasonable adjustments for Mr B, considering the situation he found himself in due to his job. 
So, without any knowledge to suggest otherwise, I think AAIS were fair to expect Mr B to 
comply with their terms and conditions and the business process they set, where all 
cancellations needed to be arranged over the phone. And because of this, I dont think they 
need to do anything more on this occasion.
But I am glad to see AAIS did cancel Mr Bs policy, and refund his premium, as a gesture of 
goodwill. While I appreciate Mr Bs belief this shows a cancellation couldve been processed 
by email, I dont think itd be fair for me to use AAIS attempts to act fairly and reasonably as 
a reason to uphold his complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Automobile 
Association Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman