DRN-3668866
The complaint
Mr B says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, mis-sold him a credit card and 
subsequently offered inadequate service.
What happened
Virgin offered two reward credit cards, one was fee free with a lower reward level, the 
second had a £160 fee and offered a higher value reward. On 5 October 2021 Mr B applied 
for the card with the fee, he says he intended to spend between £20-30,000 per month. But 
after being accepted with a £1,400 credit limit he felt the card was of no use and Virgin had 
sold him a product that was not in his best interest. He says with a fee of £160 and a limit of 
£1,400 it does not offer value compared to the fee free card. 
He called Virgin about the credit limit, asking for an increase, on 20 October 2021 and 
complained. But he accepted the banks response and a £20 goodwill payment five days 
later. It explained it would review his limit in six months. Mr B then used the card three times, 
and each time cleared the balance, so the only item owing on his card was the fee which 
was charged on 7 November 2021. 
Mr B received an email at that time saying his first statement was available to download, but 
as he doesnt use apps he called to ask for a paper statement on 10 November 2021. He 
chased this up later when it did not arrive, but was told he would receive paper statements 
going forward, not retrospectively. He called twice more and emailed about getting a copy of 
the first statement. On one of these calls Mr B failed the security questions and the call 
became difficult, Mr B asked to register a complaint but Virgin failed to do this. On another 
occasion Mr B had to wait for over 45 minutes to speak to a manager. Virgin also did not 
send the requested copy statement, or answer his question as to how he should pay the first 
months bill. Mr B then successfully raised a complaint. 
On 14 January 2022 he called to ask about the impact of all this on his credit file. He was 
told no adverse data had been recorded and that recovery action would be paused whilst the 
complaint was ongoing, this was confirmed in a follow up email. When Mr B continued to 
make no payment Virgin began to report the missed payments to the credit reference 
agency(ies). He went on to pay but under duress as he still hadnt received the first 
statement. 
Virgin did not respond to Mr Bs complaint within the required eight weeks but explained he 
could take his complaint to this service nevertheless. When it did issue a final response it 
said it could not uphold the aspects of his complaint about the mis-sale or the credit limit or 
not being set up for paper statements at application. But it accepted at times its service was 
poor and apologised for not sending a copy of the first statement. It offered Mr B £100 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr B rejected this offer and asked that we consider the impact of all these issues on his 
mental and financial health.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said, in summary, Mr B applied online  
and the cost and features of the card were made clear: she didnt think Virgin had misled   
Mr B. It was up to the bank to set the credit limit based on its lending policies and it had 
agreed to review it after six months. She found the terms of the account were clear how the 
fee would be charged, and as Mr B opted not to make the contractual payment it was fair the 
bank applied interest and charges. She said the product literature explains paper statements 
could be set up once the account was up and running but Mr B did not ask for them before 
the first statement, so that one was only made available digitally. 
But she felt Mr B was aware of what he owed  and how to pay having made payments on 3 
November 2021, so there was no reason he could not pay the fee as required. She did 
accept though it would have been frustrating for Mr B not to have received the copy 
statement he asked for. And she agreed service had been poor at times, but also that some 
calls became difficult. With regards the adverse data, she said Virgin has to report accurately 
to the agency(ies) and there were missed payments. Overall, she found the £100 payment to 
be fair given the evidence of service failures. 
Mr B had also raised a new issue about the lack of security when his call recordings and 
password were posted together. She asked he contact Virgin Money directly about that first 
as we did not have a submission from the bank on this issue.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review. He said whilst he 
may have been aware of the amount owing this was in dispute, and he didnt know when the 
fee needed to be paid. He still hasnt received the first months statement so it cannot be 
acceptable to apply interest charges. Virgin has not kept to its word (that it confirmed in 
writing) that it would not submit adverse data onto his credit file. And the response to this 
complaint was repeatedly delayed. He later raised that he had been declined for another 
credit card because of the unfair adverse data Virgin reported. He also feels this 
investigation has been totally on the banks side.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about all of Mr Bs points carefully but in keeping with our role as an informal 
dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the issues I find to be 
material to the outcome of his complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint and I will explain why. But first I want to respond to his 
comment that we have sided with of the bank. As an independent and impartial organisation 
we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to find in favour 
of one party over the other.
Mr B says with a £1,400 credit limit restricting his spend, and therefore the amount of points 
he can earn, his card is not worth the £160 fee. I have looked at the information he saw 
about the two different cards at application. This was clear about the fee and the reward 
levels. It did not guarantee a credit limit of any amount. And the terms make clear the bank 
will give a credit limit based on personal circumstances. Mr B said he has a much higher limit 
on other cards, but Virgins limit polices are not something we can interfer in.
So I find Mr B decided to apply for the card fully informed. He argues the low limit means the 
card is not financially viable for him. But he had a 14-day right to withdraw so he could have 
cancelled his account once he knew his credit limit and as the fee was not applied until 7 
November 2021 he would have had nothing to pay. In addition when he spoke to the bank 
about his credit limit it said this could be reviewed in six months which could have changed the economics of the card for him. He accepted a £20 compensation payment from Virgin at 
this stage which suggests he was satisfied with that response. So I find no failings on the 
part of Virgin in the sales process or credit limit allocation.
The terms of the card set out that a request can be made for paper statements, but Mr B did 
not do this until after his first statement had been issued. Virgin acknowledges that when he 
called in to ask for paper it should have checked if he wanted a copy of the statement that 
had already been issued digitally. I dont think however that its failure to do this means Mr B 
was right not to pay the annual fee that had been billed to his card that month. I say this as 
he been issued a statement, albeit not in his preferred media, and he had successfully made 
other repayments on 3 November 2021 so he clearly knew how to pay. The pre-contract 
credit information he had received made clear the annual fee would be added to the account 
and required to be paid in full and on time. This was repeated in the terms summary. Mr B 
argues that as the fee was in dispute he didnt pay it. But that was a risk he took  the 
product sold was as advertised, it may be he decided the economics no longer worked for 
him once he received his limit, but he opted not to withdraw and so I find it was fair he 
remained liable for the annual fee.  And therefore for any interest or fees charged if it was 
not repaid in line with the terms of the account. 
With regards the agreement made on the 14 January 2021, I have reviewed the email Virgin 
sent to Mr B following their phone call. This confirms there had been no impact on Mr Bs 
credit file, and that it would stop any collections activity while his complaint with it was 
ongoing. It does not say what will be reported to the credit reference agency(ies) ongoing if 
Mr B does not make any repayments. Virgin argues in the final response letter that the email 
correctly set out the situation at the time Mr B asked. I think it would have been helpful for it 
to have clarified what would happen going forward, but on balance I dont agree that by 
reporting the status of his account accurately to the credit reference agency(ies) it did 
something it had committed not to. 
Virgin has acknowledged it was unacceptable that Mr B had to wait around 45 minutes to 
speak to a manager and apologised for this. It has considered this poor service he received 
when making its compensation award. I do find Virgin has also not provided a level of 
service Mr B is entitled to expect by failing to send him a paper copy of his first statement as 
he, and we, requested. However, for the reasons set out above this does not change my 
view that he was fairly liable for the balance on his account. And that Virgin was entitled, and 
obliged, to accurately report the status of his account externally. Mr B provided evidence that 
this had led him to be declined for other credit products but as I have not found the bank 
acted incorrectly in its reporting, I have no further comments on this.
I note Mr B also flagged that the bank did not respond to his complaint in the required eight 
weeks. I can see whilst that is true, it did provide his referral rights to this service in the 
required timeline. And as complaint handling is not a regulated activity I have no power to 
investigate any failings in this regard.
Mr B more recently raised an issue about how he was sent material following his subject 
access request. As this did not form part of his complaint to Virgin he would need to raise a 
complaint with the bank first to allow it the opportunity to investigate and respond. He can of 
course bring a new complaint to this service if he is not satisfied with Virgins response.
In summary, I agree with Mr B that Virgin has not consistently provided good enough 
service. And I am sorry that he has found this all to be stressful and detrimental to his mental 
health. But I havent found any failings in the sales process or its credit limit allocation 
process. It follows I think the £100 it offered to compensate Mr B for any inconvenience and 
confusion caused to be fair in the circumstances.  Mr B should contact Virgin Money directly 
if he wishes to accept this payment. My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman