DRN-2804744
The complaint
Mr M says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk lent to him 
irresponsibly. He says that Moneyboat should have looked into his circumstances in more 
detail by, for example, looking at his bank statements. This wouldve shown it that he had 
significant other lending, and other related financial problems, and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one payday and two instalment loans Moneyboat provided to Mr M 
between April 2019 and July 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the 
lending is in the table below:
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate ended
1 30/04/2019 £500 3 03/05/2019
2 06/06/2019 £400 4 04/07/2019
3 11/07/2019 £800 6 19/07/2019
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She though the checks that Moneyboat had 
made were reasonable and so it wasnt acting incorrectly when it approved the lending. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that he did have other loans when 
Moneyboat lent to him. And it should have seen this and not approved the loans. As no 
agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr M provided when he completed his loan 
applications. Mr M said he had a monthly income of £1,500. He declared a monthly 
expenditure of around £400. And Moneyboat increased this by up to £450 for the liabilities it 
saw on his credit report meaning that at times Moneyboat believed Mr Ms outgoings to be 
up to £850 per month. It would have been reasonable for Moneyboat to think that Mr M could 
afford the loan repayments.  
The crux of Mr Ms objection to the lending is that he feels Moneyboat should have made 
more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen he was in financial difficulty. But 
given the amounts borrowed against his income, and that that it was early in the lending 
relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Moneyboat should have looked into his 
finances in more detail. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Moneyboat was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr M mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Moneyboat to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Moneyboat did for these loans 
were proportionate. And so I think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 3 was reasonable. Im 
not upholding Mr Ms complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman