DRN-3711694
The complaint
Mr W complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of his buildings insurance claim.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My decision covers events up to Ageas final response to Mr Ws complaint, provided in 
September 2022.  Any reference to events following this date are for contextual purposes 
only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its normal practice for an Insurer to ask questions to validate a claim, and having 
looked at everything, I dont think the questions Ageas have asked are unreasonable.
Mr W arranged for repairs to be carried out at his property before contacting Ageas. I 
can understand why he did this, but as he did so there was no damage for Ageas to 
inspect, so I think its reasonable it would attempt to speak to the contractor who 
carried out the work
Mr W says he has provided information from the contractor regarding the damage, 
along with an explanation of how the damage has occurred and photographs.
The information from the contractor is an invoice for the work carried out at the 
property. While it details the work carried out, it doesnt provide detail of the cause of 
the damage. So, I dont think its unreasonable for Ageas to attempt to contact the 
contractor to discuss this  and this isnt uncommon.
Mr W said Ageas agent was rude to him during a call in August 2022, and feels 
Ageas has accused him of making a fraudulent claim. Ive listened to the call and Im 
not persuaded this was the case. The agent from Agent from Ageas called to provide 
a requested update, discuss what information it needed from the contractor and why. 
I think Ageas agent handled the call, and Mr Ws questions professionally.
So, having reviewed everything, I dont think Ageas have treated Mr W unfairly.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman