DRN-3672971
The complaint
Ms L and Mr N complain that Society of Lloyd's (SoL) has unfairly declined their residential 
warranty insurance claim.
Any reference to SoL in this decision includes its respective syndicates or agents unless 
otherwise specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to both parties, so Ive summarised the 
key points.
Ms L and Mr N purchased a residential warranty insurance policy through a broker 
(Company A) to cover a new build property they were building.
Ms L and Mr N found a leak in the swimming pool at the property, so they made a 
claim for this on their policy with SoL. But it declined the claim, saying that swimming 
pools werent covered under the policy.
Ms L and Mr N say they sent SoL drawings and plans that showed the property they 
were looking to insure featured a swimming pool, and that SoL never responded with 
any exclusions or limitations regarding this.
They also say the policy documents theyve seen dont exclude all swimming pools 
and given the swimming pool cost was around 25% of the overall house build, they 
would never knowingly have taken out a policy that didnt provide cover for it.
Ms L and Mr N want SoL to accept the claim, reimburse them for any costs incurred 
and to rectify the damage to their swimming pool.
SoL says that as the policy was purchased through Company A, it had the 
responsibility to ensure the full policy documentation, which it was in possession of, 
had been provided to Ms L and Mr N. And its satisfied the exclusion is clearly set out 
within this documentation, so it can fairly rely on it.
SoL says that on becoming aware of the swimming pool from the house build plans, 
it verbally notified Company A that the swimming pool wouldnt be covered, and the 
policy still went ahead in the knowledge of this.
Our investigator was satisfied the policy terms were clear and that the damage Ms L 
and Mr N were claiming for wasnt covered, so they said SoL had fairly declined the 
claim and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms L and Mr N disagreed with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure the parties that Ive read and considered all the information provided in reaching 
my decision. But in line with my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome 
is, my findings will be summarised to focus on what is relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
Ms L and Mr N are claiming for damage to their swimming pool, but SoL has declined the 
claim on the basis the policy doesnt provide cover for swimming pools. Under the policy, 
Ms L and Mr N are covered for damage to their Residential Property. The policy sets out 
the definition of this and then goes onto say  
For the purposes of this Policy the definition of Residential Property does not include any 
swimming pool, temporary structure, free-standing household appliance, fence, retaining or 
boundary wall not essential to the stability or strength of the Structure. 
On the face of it, the policy terms appear to exclude cover for any swimming pools. But Ms L 
and Mr N argue that the above term could be read to mean that the policy only excludes 
swimming pools that are not essential to the stability or strength of the structure. And as they 
believe their swimming pool is essential to the stability of the structure, their claim should be 
covered. SoL say this is a misunderstanding of the term as there is clearly a separation in 
the definition between swimming pool and boundary/retaining walls.
SoL has a responsibility to ensure the information it provides is clear, fair, and not 
misleading, so Ive thought about this point and the interpretation carefully. But my reading of 
the term is that the cover for residential property doesnt include swimming pools at all. Ive 
thought carefully about what a reasonable person would have understood the parties to have 
meant by the language used. 
To agree with Ms L and Mr Ns interpretation, that the swimming pool is covered where its 
essential to the stability or strength of the structure, the terms would have to be read and 
interpreted in the same way for all the other items listed. Im not persuaded that a 
reasonable person would have understood the parties here to have considered items like a 
temporary structure, free-standing household appliance or fence could be essential to the 
stability or strength of the structure. Im persuaded the reasonable interpretation is that the 
stability and structure element is limited to boundary or retaining walls.
Im satisfied the policy is sufficiently clear swimming pools arent covered, and it follows I 
think SoL fairly declined the claim and I wont be directing it to do anything further.
Ms L and Mr N say Company A shouldve been notified of the exclusion in writing. SoLs 
position is that it sent the policy documents to Ms L and Mr Ns broker in December 2017 
and January 2018. Company A, as Ms L and Mr Ns insurance broker shouldve provided the 
policy documents to them, and in doing so, the fact that swimming pools arent covered 
wouldve become apparent. So I dont think its unreasonable that SoL didnt follow this up to 
Company A with additional written confirmation in the circumstances of this case.
SoL has given further comment to explain why the claim still wouldnt be covered even if the 
term did include certain swimming pools. And Ms L and Mr N think this means its accepted 
that cover could apply in some instances. But from what Ive seen, SoLs comments on this 
are based on a hypothetical scenario rather than it confirming cover may be available. The 
crux of its argument still seems to be that the policy doesnt include cover for swimming 
pools at all, which has been addressed above. So these points dont change my conclusion.
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms L and Mr N. And I 
acknowledge the detail of their submissions which shows why they believe strongly that their 
claim should be paid. But having considered all of the information carefully, Im satisfied the 
decision Ive reached is fair in all the circumstances of this case.
Ms L and Mr N have said they wanted a policy that included cover for their swimming pool. 
And theyve raised concerns about not seeing all the policy documentation. As SoL and the 
investigator have explained, these issues are regarding the sale and administration of the 
policy. And as Ms L and Mr N purchased their policy through Company A, these issues would need to be raised with it in the first instance. If Ms L and Mr N are unhappy with its 
response, this service can potentially consider this separately under a new complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman