DRN-1943038
complaint           
Mr W says Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr W took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1993. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr W, so Ill 
explain why.
Mr W says that he wasnt aware that he had taken out MPPI  and that he just signed his 
paperwork where he was told. Halifax hasnt been able to provide paperwork form the time 
that the mortgage and MPPI were sold  but this isnt unusual for a sale that took place so 
long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. So, while I understand 
that this may be frustrating for Mr W, I dont have enough to say that Halifax didnt make it 
clear that Mr W had a choice in taking out the policy, and I cant uphold his complaint for this 
reason.
Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mr W, so I need to consider if it was right for him., and it 
seems to have been right for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I 
understand that Mr W has said that he was entitled to substantial sick pay and that he had 
some savings and family that could also help out if needed. 
But the policy couldve paid out for longer than his existing cover  and protected his savings 
for other expenses. And while family are often keen to help out, this isnt something that can 
be relied upon. 
Halifax couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I think 
Mr W would still have bought it, given his existing cover.
And while Halifax hasnt been able to provide the exact policy document that would be 
relevant for the sale, I have seen policies that were sold at around the same time. And I think 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy wouldve been similar, so while Its possible 
Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover, Mr W doesnt appear likely to 
have been affected by any of those things given what hes said about his circumstances. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ws comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman