DRN-4492258
The complaint
Mr B complains that Future Wealth Management Ltd (FWM), an appointed representative of 
Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), gave him unsuitable advice to switch four personal pension plans to a 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest with a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
What happened
In early 2018 Mr B met with an unregulated introducer to FWM who Ill refer to as DG. 
DG carried out a fact find to record Mr Bs circumstances at the time, risk profile and 
investment experience. Its recorded that;
Mr B had four pensions with L&G.
Mr B was employed and earning around £24,000 a year. He had around £5,000 in 
savings.
He had an attitude to investment risk of highest medium.
On 30 January 2018 L&G sent FWM information about the fund values of the pensions Mr B 
held with them. Mr Bs four pensions were valued at around £34,500, £3,800, £3,800 and 
£3,800.
A suitability report written on FWM headed paper was produced and sent to Mr B. It 
recommended a transfer of all four of his L&G pensions to a SIPP with London & Colonial 
(L&C). The report went on to recommend an investment with a DFM  SVS Securities  in 
their Growth Model Portfolio.
The suitability report noted Mr B had the following objectives which formed the basis for 
recommending the transfer. These were;
He wished to consolidate his pensions.
He wanted to be able to access his funds flexibly in the future. That wasnt possible 
with L&G.
He wanted a good standard of living in retirement, so he wanted the opportunity for 
these funds to grow.
He also wanted flexibility in the options he had to invest his funds.
Mr B accepted the recommendation. Application forms for the SIPP and investment were 
submitted and the transfer was completed in May 2018. The amount transferred was 
£43,750.02.
On 16 May 2018, £41,813.35 was transferred to SVS to be invested. SVS Securities was 
placed in Special Administration on 5 August 2019 and its client book was acquired by ITI 
Capital in June 2020.
ITI Capital returned £19,566.43 to Mr Bs SIPP on 29 September 2021. 
Mr B complained to Pi. He said that hed been mis-sold his SIPP by PI and it had caused 
him to suffer a financial loss.
Pi said neither FWM nor Pi had given the advice Mr B was complaining about. They said the 
evidence demonstrated that the advice was given by the unregulated introducer  DG  and 
as such they said they werent responsible for the impact of that advice.
Mr B brought his complaint to our Service.
Pi didnt think our Service had the authority to look into the complaint as they maintained that 
Mr B wasnt their customer regarding the advice he complained about. Pi provided detailed 
submissions in support of their arguments. In summary they said the advice was given solely 
by DG without the knowledge or the authority of FWM. They say DG was acting in an 
unregulated capacity and didnt have any agreement with Pi to provide advice. So, they say 
they arent responsible for this advice that was given by DG.
I sent a provisional decision on this complaint to both parties. In it, I explained that I thought 
Pi were responsible for the advice Mr B was given and so the complaint was in our Services 
jurisdiction. I also thought the advice was unsuitable for Mr Bs circumstances, so I said I 
was minded to uphold the complaint and direct Pi to compensate Mr B. 
Mr B accepted the findings of my provisional decision. 
Pi sent a detailed response to my provisional decision covering several subjects, which Ill 
summarise as;
DG was not authorised by the FCA and was committing fraud by providing 
unregulated advice. DG presented himself to be a chartered financial planner  
deliberately and fraudulently holding himself to be something he wasnt. The advice 
Mr B is complaining about was given by DG and he had never met HY.
Applying Anderson & others v Sense Network Pi was able to appoint DG as an 
introducer to FWM and limit the scope of his activities. As DG acted outside of the 
scope of his agreement, Pi arent responsible for his actions. It was DG who gave 
advice, Mr B isnt a client of Pis and so, this complaint falls outside our Services 
jurisdiction.
The call Pi made to Mr B about his complaint must not have been listened to as the 
most relevant comments havent been referred to in the provisional decision.  
HY wasnt in the UK between November 2017 and the end of February 2018. 
Between March and mid-July 2018 HY was also out of the country at various points. 
Pi hadnt previously shared a copy of an Anti-Money Laundering (AML) client identity 
check. Pi claim the AML documents were forged. They dont believe the signature 
matches those they have on record for HY and he was most likely abroad when the 
AML documents were signed. They say the documents were more likely signed by 
DG or FWMs administrator. And FWMs administrator would have emailed the 
forged documents on to L&C and SVS.
HY never met Mr B so couldnt have signed the AML certification to say Mr Bs passport was a true likeness of him. Mr B only ever had a telephone contact from 
FWMs office, and it was a female he spoke to.
When completing new business FWM had to send enforms on to Pi detailing each 
of the transactions. FWMs administrator likely sent the enforms for Mr Bs 
transactions while HY was out of the country. 
Pi believe the transaction occurred due to fraudulent activities of DG and FWMs 
administrator and therefore they arent responsible for the advice given to Mr B.
This complaint relates to a pension transfer and not a pension switch. The 2009 
checklist only applied to pension switches and there are more recent FCA alerts of 
relevance. Such as one in 2014 which says firms must not consider the suitability of 
a pension transfer alone but must also consider the suitability of the underlying 
investment.
Not withstanding any of the other arguments, the advice given to Mr B was suitable. 
Problems with the investment in SVS could not have been foreseen when the advice 
was given and only arose months afterwards. So, at the time of the advice the 
investment in SVS was suitable. Mr Bs losses stemmed from SVS changing the 
composition of funds in their model portfolios which could not have been foreseen 
when the advice was given to Mr B. 
Mr Bs pension provisions werent modest. He had other pensions to rely on in 
retirement. The L&G pensions were funds for entirely non-essential luxuries and 
therefore he wanted them to grow. He also had the willingness to take some risk to 
achieve higher returns. 
A SIPP met Mr Bs objectives whereas a stakeholder plan, with a default low-risk 
investment fund with limited options wouldnt have. If the FCAs 2014 alert was 
applied it would have demonstrated that the costs were justified by the benefits of 
transferring. 
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi have provided detailed submissions in response to my provisional decision which I can 
confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety. 
My decision focuses on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it 
simply reflects the fact that our Service exists as an alternative to the courts to resolve 
complaints with the least formality. So, I trust that Pi will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider are the central issues as a discourtesy. 
Our jurisdiction over this complaint
In deciding whether our Service has jurisdiction to consider this complaint its important to 
note that there are several parties involved. Pi had a professional introducers agreement 
with DG to introduce clients to FWM. Pi separately had an appointed representative 
agreement with FWM.A complaint falls into our Services jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm 
carrying out regulated activities. This also includes activities for which the firm is responsible 
(including the business of any appointed representative or agent for which the firm have 
accepted responsibility) [DISP 2.3].
Pi have referenced case law in Anderson v Sense Network. Ive considered the application 
of this case in Mr Bs complaint. Specifically, Pi have argued that they were able to limit the 
scope of activities of DG for which they were responsible. And their agreement with him 
meant they werent responsible for any unlawful actions he took. 
Pi say DG acted fraudulently when he supplied Mr B with a business card stating he was a 
Chartered Financial Planner. The Chartered Insurance Institute (CII) allow their members to 
use certain designations dependant on their qualifications and active membership of the CII. 
It isnt directly linked to individuals being regulated by the FCA. So, DG was able to use the 
designation of Chartered Financial Planner if he held the relevant qualifications and was an 
active member of the CII. 
A recent search of CIIs database shows DG as holding the designation of Chartered 
Financial Planner. While I cant be certain that was also the case in 2018, I havent seen any 
evidence that persuades me DG wasnt chartered at that time. So, I think its unlikely DG 
was presenting himself as something he wasnt as Pi suggest. DGs business card didnt say 
he was regulated or portray himself as an adviser for FWM or Pi.
Pi also maintain that the evidence shows the advice was given solely by DG who wasnt 
authorised by them to provide advice under their agreement with him or FWM. So, they cant 
be held responsible for the advice given by DG as he was acting outside of his introducers 
agreement. 
To be clear, Im not solely looking at the actions of DG and whether his actions went beyond 
the scope of his agreement. It was FWM (and not DG) who were the appointed 
representatives of Pi. So, Im not intending to hold Pi responsible for the actions of DG. 
FWM had an appointed representative agreement with Pi to provide regulated services to 
consumers. The same principles in Anderson v Sense Network apply here. Pis 
responsibilities over the activities of FWM arent limited to the activities Pi were authorised to 
do, but theyre determined by considering the terms of the contract between Pi and FWM  
the appointed representative agreement. 
Theres been no dispute that Pis agreement with FWM meant they were able to provide 
regulated advice and bring about deals in investments. And so, the ultimate responsibility for 
those regulated activities that FWM performed would fall to Pi. 
My decision, therefore, focuses mainly on the actions of FWM. Thats deliberate, as Im 
looking at whether or not FWM performed any regulated activities for Mr B, under their 
appointed representatives agreement with Pi, which would fall under our Services 
jurisdiction.
Ive listened to Mr Bs testimony in his phone call with Pi in full. Its not disputed by either 
side that Mr B never met or directly spoke with HY. So, I accept that HY never met Mr B or 
spoke directly to him. 
Theres also no dispute that it was DG who met with Mr B and completed the fact-find 
documentation and other paperwork. 
Ive thought carefully about all of the evidence before me along with the arguments that Pi has made. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied its most likely FWM advised Mr B to 
switch his pensions and brought about the investment into SVS Securities. In the 
circumstances here, there are several things that satisfy me its most likely FWM performed 
regulated activities for Mr B:
Mr B signed a Client agreement with FWM on 24 January 2018.
A Client Fact Find recorded on FWM headed paper was completed and signed by 
Mr B on 24 January 2018.
Mr B was provided with a Defaqto research report on the proposed SIPP. At the 
footer of each page, it noted Research report prepared by [HY  the director of 
FWM] using Defaqto Engage.
Following the fact find, it was FWM that L&G wrote to, providing all of the information 
about Mr Bs policies. The figures contained in the letter sent to FWM match those 
later used in the suitability report.
A Pi financial Pension replacement contract form detailing the proposed transfer for 
each of Mr Bs personal pensions to L&C was completed and signed by him on 
26 February 2018.
The SIPP application form, in the section titled 2.1 Financial Adviser Details named 
HY as Mr Bs adviser, gave HYs FWM email address and said that he was working 
for Pi. It also said Yes next to the statement:
Advice given which takes into account the suitability of both Simple Investment SIPP 
and the underlying investment strategy. My/our client is following the advice given:
The advice and annual fee structure were set out in the SIPP application under the 
heading 3. Financial Adviser Remuneration. This stated that a charge of 3.25% of the 
value of any transfer into the SIPP would be applied and a 1% annual fee would be 
paid to Mr Bs adviser. And I can see from the SIPP statement that these fees were 
paid by way of deductions from the fund.
The SIPP provider confirmed the fees were paid to Pi.
The SIPP application also showed under the heading 4.1 Initial Investments that 
100% of the funds were to be allocated to the Investment Manager SVS Securities.
Its Mr Bs testimony that he received a call from a female at FWM to proceed with 
the transfer. Pi acknowledges that FWMs administration was completed by Miss Y. 
They say its fair to assume that Miss Y rang Mr B to confirm the instructions they say 
were given by DG.
L&C emailed Mr B on 31 March 2018 saying, We have recently received an 
application for a London & Colonial Simple Investment SIPP, which has been 
completed and submitted on your behalf by Mr [HY] 
([HY]@futurewealthmanagement.com) from Pi Financial Limited.
L&C emailed HY confirming that theyd received funds from L&G. They confirmed 
initial fees of £117.20, £117.22, £117.28 and £1,070.27 would be paid to Mr Bs 
financial advisor. The email was sent to HY using an alternative email address to his 
FWM email address. But I dont think this changes the fact that it shows HY was 
aware of and involved in the opening of the SIPP.L&C also sent a copy of a welcome letter theyd sent to Mr B to HYs alternative 
email address on 23 March 2018.
FWM sent Pi enforms for each of Mr Bs pension transactions. The enforms from 
FWM recorded that Mr B had been provided with limited advice for an L&C SIPP.
A bank statement belonging to Mr B seems to have been certified as a true copy of 
the original on 18 March 2018 by HY. It is stamped with HYs name, business 
address and phone number, with a signature and it was attached to the SVS 
securities application. Similarly, a passport had been certified in the same way with 
the acknowledgement that where a photograph is included the certifier is satisfied its 
a true likeness of the individual. 
Pi have said that the signature on the certified documents does not resemble the one it has 
on record for HY. And it also would have been impossible for HY to certify Mr Bs passport 
was a true likeness of him, as hed never met or spoken to him. 
I cant say with any certainty whether it was, or wasnt, HYs signature on the documents. 
The examples of HYs signature Pi have sent are from the agreements HY signed several 
years earlier, signing his full name rather than just an initial. And Im not an expert in 
identifying signatures. Pi say that it was most likely DG or an employee of FWM who signed 
the certifications, but I cant agree. Ill explain why.
Pi say HY had been in and out of the country in early 2018 and made several trips abroad 
between March and July 2018. But Ive seen no persuasive evidence HY wouldnt have been 
able to sign the documents on 18 March 2018, as they were dated. Its entirely plausible that 
he did. So, I dont think its more likely than not that the signature was forged.
However, even if I did conclude that HY hadnt signed the documents himself, on balance I 
think it is more likely than not that HY was fully aware of the documents being signed in his 
name. I say this largely because, as Ive concluded above, FWM were heavily involved in the 
application process. And the certified documents were required for the applications to L&C 
and SVS that FWM submitted.
It's not my role to decide whether a criminal act has been committed. But Pi ought to have 
had robust compliance processes and oversight of their appointed representative as they 
ultimately remain responsible for any shortcomings in their actions.
The suitability report dated 14 March 2018 clearly showed that advice was given. And Im 
satisfied its most likely HY was aware of the content of this letter and allowed it to be sent in 
his name, even if he didnt draft it himself. I note Pi has questioned the validity of the letter 
and the fact it wasnt signed by HY. But from the evidence Ive detailed above, its clear he, 
in his role at FWM, was involved in what was happening. Pi have also now supplied the 
meta data from the suitability report which shows it was last saved by an employee of 
FWM. Had DG solely produced the suitability report without FWMs knowledge or authority I 
see no reasonable explanation why FWM would have been the last party to save the 
document.
HY was also aware of L&C receiving an application and he was aware he was being paid a 
fee from Mr Bs SIPP.
If HY wasnt aware of Mr B, or the advice hed been given, its likely HY would have 
questioned these emails and the payments received. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
he did that. HY also wouldnt have had cause to send enforms to Pi or be in possession of 
the suitability report and all the other documentation. Taking everything into account, I dont think theres enough to reasonably conclude the recommendation letter was created and 
sent without HYs knowledge.
As well as the individual documents I consider the wider circumstances at play here. 
Specifically, Pi was able to provide our Service with all of the key documents typically 
generated during an advice process. Those include a fact-find, client agreement, suitability 
report and application forms all of which are recorded on FWM or Pi headed paperwork. Its 
difficult to envisage a situation where these would be in Pis possession if FWM wasnt 
aware of or involved in the advice process. Its notable too that theyd received payment for 
the recommendations recorded in those documents.
My conclusion is therefore, on the balance of probabilities, that FWM gave advice to Mr B 
about the transfer to the SIPP. Im also satisfied that FWM arranged the associated 
investments with SVS Securities. And Pi had allowed FWM to conduct these regulated 
activities in their agreement with them. So, in summary, regulated activities were carried out 
by FWM that Pi were ultimately aware of and responsible for.
Having concluded that Pi was ultimately responsible for the advice Mr B received, for ease, 
Ill now refer to Pi when talking about the actions of Pi and FWM.
As our Service has the authority to look into Mr Bs complaint, Ive gone on to consider its 
merits.
The suitability of the advice
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is:
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint is 
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to a 
designated investment.
The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated businesses like Pi take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and that theyre not 
inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case here, and that any recommendations met the 
requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, Pi needed to gather the necessary information for it to be 
confident that its advice met Mr Bs objectives and was suitable. They also needed to make 
sure he could financially bear the risks of any recommendation made.
In 2009 the Financial Services Authority (now FCA) also published a report and checklist for 
pension switching that is still applicable today. That checklist identified four main areas where consumers had lost out:
They had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without good reason.
They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason. This could include 
the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) 
or the right to take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age.
They had switched into a pension that does not match their recorded attitude to risk 
(ATR) and personal circumstances.
They had switched into a pension where there is a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Pi say the 2009 report shouldnt be used in Mr Bs case as his complaint is about a pension 
transfer as opposed to a pension switch. But I disagree. Ill explain why.
A pension transfer is the movement of safeguarded benefits into a flexible arrangement or to 
another scheme with safeguarded benefits. A pension switch is a transaction that is not 
within the definition of a pension transfer, but involves moving pension benefits from one 
scheme to another scheme of that same type. The movement of funds without safeguarded 
benefits from a personal pension to a SIPP would fall into this category.
Pi have referenced an alert sent by the FCA in 2014. The alert outlined firms responsibilities 
to consider the underlying investments when giving pension transfer and pension switching 
advice. While I agree the alert is relevant to Mr Bs complaint, it didnt supersede the 2009 
guidance and Ive considered both in reaching my findings.  
A SIPP is generally suitable for consumers who need access to a range of investments and 
funds not normally available via a basic pension wrapper. Its also typically suitable for 
individuals who need to have their monies managed in a bespoke, or discretionary style. 
Usually, a straight-forward stakeholder or personal pension may be more suitable for 
consumers who have only modest funds and non-complex needs. Thats ordinarily because 
often, although not always, its cheaper for the consumer.
The total amount of funds involved in the pension switch was around £43,000. Pi say this 
pension was to fund luxuries in retirement and, as such, Mr B could afford to take risks with 
it. However, it should have been clear to Pi from the fact-finding exercise they carried out 
that Mr Bs responses indicated he was an inexperienced investor with very little other 
assets on which to rely and someone for whom traditional low-cost pension arrangements 
would have been more appropriate. 
The new SIPP wasnt a low cost or traditional pension arrangement. Given the relatively 
modest funds available to Mr B in this pension, its unlikely that he wouldve benefited from 
or needed the services of a DFM especially when that was likely to be a more complex and 
expensive arrangement. I say that because the costs associated with the SIPP were greater 
than Mr Bs existing pensions. 
The ongoing charges associated with Mr Bs L&G pensions were 0.75% per annum and a 
£0.75 monthly charge. In contrast the SIPP had an initial advice charge of 3.25%, a setup 
charge of £100, an annual maintenance charge of £199, fund charges of 0.75% and ongoing 
advice charges of 1% per annum. There was likely to also be transaction fees from SVS.Charges play a very important part when considering whether its in the consumers best 
interest to switch their pension or not. Whilst they cant be viewed in isolation, higher costs 
would generally point towards being a good reason not to move into that pension. So, that 
means thered need to be other, more compelling reasons to justify a switch.
Although there may have been some advantages to taking out a SIPP in the form of greater 
flexibility, Im not persuaded that Mr B, with his modest pension funds and investment 
inexperience, really needed access to a wider range of investments and especially via a 
DFM. Theres also no evidence Mr B was particularly interested in where his funds were 
invested or that he had the knowledge or experience to understand the additional costs of 
the DFM model and the types of investments that would be made on his behalf.
There could have been good reason to consolidate Mr Bs funds in a plan that allowed Mr B 
to access his funds flexibly. But I think its likely that there would have been cheaper 
alternative options, such as a stakeholder pension or personal pension, that would likely 
have met his needs. I say that because Mr Bs objective seems to have been that he wanted 
flexibility in his investment choices and accessing his funds which could have been achieved 
in a lower costing arrangement. 
Pi dismissed a stakeholder plan in the suitability report saying;
I am recommending a SIPP instead of a Stakeholder/Personal Pension because this is 
more suitable in your circumstances because it offers you a low cost way of managing 
your pension monies, within funds that meet your objectives and are in line with your 
risk profile.
I think this statement is misleading. While the SIPP wrapper in itself may not have been 
prohibitively expensive, Pi were recommending a DFM arrangement which meant the overall 
proposition was likely to be more expensive than a Stakeholder or personal pension.
Pi also failed to explain why a stakeholder or personal pension wouldnt have funds that met 
Mr Bs objectives. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr B sought to invest in 
sophisticated, non-conventional funds that a SIPP would allow access to. Instead, I think 
greater investment fund choice was of limited value to Mr B who had little experience in 
investing in stocks and shares.
Pi say that a stakeholder plan would have had a default low-risk strategy. But Mr B had 
sought professional advice from Pi and its likely they could have found a provider with a 
wide range of conventional funds that were in line with Mr Bs risk profile and objectives. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it ought to have been clear to Pi that there was 
no obvious justification for Mr B to move from his existing pension schemes into a more 
complex arrangement in a SIPP and the subsequent investment in a DFM service with SVS. 
Leading to greater charges than his existing schemes or other suitable alternatives.
Pi have raised several arguments about the due diligence theyd completed on SVS and said 
that there were no warning signs of any issues with SVS when the advice was given to Mr B. 
But my findings are that Pi didnt justify the additional expense and complexities of the SIPP 
and DFM arrangement. And they didnt demonstrate how they were acting in Mr Bs best 
interest by recommending them. 
Pi argues that SVSs misadministration caused Mr Bs loss. And its possible that SVSs 
actions also caused or contributed to Mr Bs losses. But I remain of the opinion that the root 
cause of any loss Mr B suffered was Pis advice. This is because without Pis involvement in 
the switch of the pensions and investment in the SIPP, Mr B wouldnt have invested in SVS. So, had Pi given Mr B a suitable personal recommendation, Mr B wouldnt have suffered the 
losses that he did, and I consider it fair and reasonable to require them to compensate Mr B 
for his losses in full.
If Pi still believes that the other parties actions contributed to the losses, it can take these 
concerns up directly with them.
Ive seen from evidence on file that Mr B has subsequently moved his SIPP to a new 
provider on 20 October 2021. Ive seen no evidence that was done on Pis advice. And I 
dont know what Mr B did with his funds once they were transferred to his new provider. 
I dont think it would be fair to hold Pi responsible for any further losses, or gains, past 20 
October 2021. So, to put things right Pi will need to calculate if Mr B suffered a loss up until 
that date and bring any loss discovered up to date using a benchmark as Ill describe below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr B's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
If the above calculation demonstrates a loss, then Mr B has also lost out on any 
investment returns on those losses between October 2021 and now. To bring the 
losses up to date Pi needs to grow any loss above by the same benchmark  FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. This needs to be done from 20 
October 2021 up until the date of my final decision.
Pi should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr B £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him and disruption to 
his retirement plans.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr B a tax deduction certificate 
in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
L&C 
Pension 
(Now 
Options)Still exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investment20 October 
20218% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date plus any residual 
cash that remains with L&C.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Pi should 
take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. The amount Pi pays should be included in the actual value before compensation is 
calculated.
If Pi is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. Pi may require that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay Pi any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for 
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
The L&C SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the L&C SIPP to be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Pi taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr B can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Pi is unable 
to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it pays Mr B 
an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee 
in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to 
arrange for the L&C SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr B's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Pi Financial Ltd to calculate 
compensation as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman