DRN-2494404
The complaint
Miss M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly allowed her to open two credit 
card accounts that were unaffordable.
What happened
Miss M says she had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) and defaults recorded on her credit 
file and so Capital One should not have allowed her to open two credit card accounts. She 
says the lending was irresponsible and led to financial difficulties and would like all charges 
and interest refunded as well as 8% interest added to that amount.
Capital One says it carried out appropriate checks on Miss Ms applications in 2014 and in 
2016. It says for both applications Miss M said she was earning £16,000 and living at home. 
It also says the CCJ was recorded as settled and in the 12 months leading up to both credit 
card account applications, Miss M didnt have any late payment markers on her credit file. 
Capital One says the accounts were closed by 2017 and both balances paid off with good 
account management throughout.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Miss M declared an income of £16,000 and that she lived at home with no rent or 
mortgage payments. And that she made appropriate required payments and paid off the full 
balances when the accounts were closed. The investigator thought appropriate checks were 
carried out and the credit limits were relatively small.
Miss M doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss M will be disappointed by my decision.
I accept that lenders must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on borrowing 
applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type of borrowing and in this 
case the borrowing was by way of a credit facility rather than for example a mortgage. I can 
see that Miss M declared a regular income and that she had limited outgoings. Im satisfied 
Capital One checked her credit file and although there was some adverse information 
recorded on it, there was a significant gap before these applications were made. So, Im 
satisfied Capital One carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss Ms 
application and it follows that I dont think its lending was unaffordable or irresponsible.
Im satisfied that the credit limit for the first application was relatively low at £250 and that 
Miss M managed her account appropriately before the second application. Im also satisfied 
that Capital One was entitled to consider how Miss M managed her account when it 
assessed the second application and didnt make a mistake by approving a higher credit 
limit.
I have looked at how Miss M managed her accounts and am satisfied she made regular 
payments and paid off both balances before closing the accounts. I think that provides 
evidence that the accounts were affordable and Capital One didnt make a mistake in 
approving them.
Overall, Im satisfied that Capital One didnt make a mistake by approving Miss Ms credit 
card account applications. And so, it follows that I cant fairly order it to refund any charges 
or interest which I think would have been applied in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman