DRN-3707389
The complaint
Mrs Y has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to her purchase of some 
solar panels.
Mrs Y is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mrs Y bought solar panels for her home in March 2017. The purchase was funded by a ten 
year loan from Ikano, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and omissions 
of the installer. Mrs Y says the installer misled her into believing that the panels would be 
self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mrs Y and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC 
did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the sales documentation sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels 
very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
I refer to two documents, one titled Performance Estimation and one called Sales 
Contract. (There was also the Ikano loan agreement, but I do not need to refer to that here.) 
The Sales Contract has been signed by Mrs Y; the Performance Estimation has not, but I 
have no reason to think that it was not shown to her, and it was provided to our service by 
the CMC.
The Sales Contract clearly states that the cash price of the panels was £4,999. The interest 
on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mrs Y could be forgiven for 
overlooking it. However, one tenth of the cash price would clearly come to £499.90 each 
year.
The Performance Estimation clearly states that the total estimated benefit from the panels in 
their first year was in the range from £246.80 to £336.19. That is clearly less than £499.90.
The Sales Contract was two pages long, and the Performance Estimation was one page. 
Because these add up to just three pages between them, I am not persuaded that the 
installer misled or tried to mislead Mrs Y about the benefits and cost of the panels. It was 
made quite clear to her that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of the loan. 
The CMC has argued that it is not reasonable to expect Mrs Y to compare those two 
documents with each other, but I respectfully disagree. But more importantly, the CMC has 
also pointed out, quite accurately, that in law it is not a defence to an action for 
misrepresentation to show that the misrepresentee could have discovered the true facts by 
exercising due diligence. I do agree with that, but my decision is not that I have found that a 
misrepresentation was made but that it was Mrs Ys fault for not noticing; rather, it is that I do 
not find that any misrepresentation was in fact made. It does not seem likely to me that the 
salesman told her that the panels would pay for themselves at the same time as showing her 
three pages that said they would not.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman