DRN-3103169
The complaint
Mr B complains that New Vision Wealth Strategies Limited (New Vision) failed to take 
account of his medical condition when advising him on taking pension benefits in 
December 2010. He says that, as a result, the annuity he purchased was unsuitable for his 
needs and circumstances.
What happened
Mr B has been assisted in making this complaint by his wife, Mrs S. But, for ease, in this 
decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr B 
himself.
Mr B suffers from some serious health conditions. In the years leading up to the time this 
advice was provided he suffered from a number of strokes. He says that the last of those 
strokes left him with some difficulties in understanding and communicating. It is those issues 
that underpin this complaint, and so I will consider them in greater detail later in this 
decision.
In 2010 Mr B sought advice from New Vision about making use of some pension savings 
that he held. I understand that Mr B had become acquainted with the Director of New Vision 
though some business events that he had hosted. 
New Vision discussed Mr Bs circumstances with him, and it has provided us with detailed 
evidence of the information Mr B provided including his health conditions, and his income 
and expenditure at that time. Mr B was 57 years old, and described himself as single  
I understand that he had separated from his partner by that time. Mr B had a non-dependent 
adult son. New Vision recorded that, because his health meant it was unlikely hed be able to 
return to his previous employment, Mr B was keen to take as little risk as possible with his 
retirement savings. His finances were tight at that time so Mr B was keen to maximise any 
income he might receive.
After these discussions with Mr B about his circumstances and future needs had been 
completed New Vision recommended that he take a pension commencement lump sum 
(PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) and use the remainder of his pension savings to 
purchase an annuity. Mr B accepted a quotation for an enhanced annuity based on the 
health problems from which he suffered, and this was put into payment with effect from 
30 December 2010.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He said that he hadnt seen 
sufficient evidence to persuade him that Mr B didnt have the mental capacity, in 2010, to 
understand the advice that New Vision gave him, and to decide to take his pension benefits. 
And he thought that the recommendation New Vision had given to Mr B was appropriate. So 
he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by New Vision. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think there are two matters that I reasonably need to determine in order to reach my 
decision on this complaint. Firstly I need to consider whether the advice that New Vision 
gave to Mr B was reasonable, and appropriate for his circumstances. And then I need to 
consider whether New Vision should have concluded that Mr Bs health was such that it 
would be inappropriate for him to make such an important decision without additional 
support, or even at all.
New Visions records show that it first discussed Mr Bs retirement savings with him in 
January 2010. He provided New Vision with some detailed information about his financial 
situation and gave his authority for the firm to gather information about his pension savings. 
However Mr B decided to not progress those discussions any further at that time.
In November 2010 New Vision and Mr B resumed their discussions about his retirement 
plans. Mr B confirmed and updated the information New Vision had recorded earlier in the 
year. New Vision then provided Mr B with information about the research it had done. 
New Vision says that throughout those discussions Mr B asked intelligent questions and 
appeared to understand the responses. New Vision agreed, at the completion of that phone 
call, to prepare a formal report that would be sent to Mr B so he could review it before a face 
to face meeting.
New Vision met Mr B at his home on 12 December 2010. It discussed its report that 
recommended that Mr B take the maximum PCLS available to him and then purchase an 
enhanced annuity. New Visions notes confirm that Mr B explained he had no dependents so 
was unconcerned about death benefits from any annuity, and wished to maximise the 
income that he would receive. New Vision confirmed its final recommendation to Mr B the 
following week. He accepted that recommendation and the pension was put into payment at 
the end of the month.
It seems to me that the recommendation New Vision gave to Mr B was appropriate, and in 
line with his stated needs and circumstances at that time. It doesnt seem that Mr B had any 
expectation that he would need to provide for any dependants following his death, and his 
need to maximise his income would suggest that a decision to take a non-escalating annuity 
wasnt inappropriate. So I dont think that New Visions advice to Mr B was unreasonable.I have considered that Mr B didnt sign the acceptance of the quotation for the annuity  it 
was signed by the financial advisor at New Vision. But that in itself isnt unusual  often 
financial advisors will sign on behalf of their client to ensure that matters progress in a 
prompt manner. I dont think it in anyway suggests that Mr B was unaware of the decision to 
purchase the annuity in that form.
It is clear from the medical reports that I have read that Mr B had been left with a range of 
relatively serious health problems following his previous strokes. But those reports, and the 
notes from New Visions meetings with Mr B dont lead me to conclude that Mr B wouldnt 
have had the mental capacity to make the necessary decisions on his pension at that time.
I have been sent a number of reports from doctors that had met with Mr B in the years 
following his strokes. Whilst those reports do discuss the deficits that Mr B was facing in his 
communication skills they appear to have been written following constructive discussions 
with Mr B  they dont suggest to me that Mr B was unable to effectively communicate or 
would be unaware of the importance of any decisions he was making.
And that conclusion would appear to be supported by the notes that New Vision made about 
the meetings it held with Mr B. It says that it was clear that Mr B faced some problems 
communicating, but those were easily overcome through patience and understanding. 
New Vision says that it checked with both Mr B and his friend whether it would be 
appropriate for another party to join any discussions to support Mr B. All agreed that wouldnt 
be needed. And the information that Mr B provided to New Vision was very detailed and 
suggests that he was capable of making the decisions that were presented to him.
So on balance I havent seen enough to persuade me that New Vision should have taken 
additional steps to ensure Mr B was supported in the decision he was making. Its 
recommendation was suitable for his circumstances, so even if I did have concerns about 
Mr Bs mental abilities, Id be unlikely to conclude that Mr B should have been advised to 
take any alternative course of action.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr B. I understand that his 
circumstances have now changed  he has now married a new partner, and is facing further 
(apparently unrelated) challenges with his health. But I dont think either of those events 
were reasonably foreseeable when New Vision provided its advice in 2010. The commitment 
that Mr B made at that time cannot now be undone.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
New Vision Wealth Strategies Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 Paul Reilly
Ombudsman