DRN-1360973
The complaint
Mr F complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) gave him an incorrect 
quote for car insurance. 
What happened
Hastings accept that they gave Mr F an incorrect quote for car insurance. Hed called to ask 
how much a years cover would cost for a car he planned to buy. Hastings said it would cost 
far less to cover Mr F and another driver, rather than just covering Mr F. But the lower 
amount was actually quoting for Mr Fs current car, not the one he planned to buy. The 
actual cost to cover Mr F and the other driver was slightly more than to cover just Mr F. 
Mr F went on to buy the car and called Hastings back to go ahead with the lower quote. The 
error was noticed at that point, leading to Mr Fs complaint. Hastings apologised and waived 
a £25 admin fee to transfer the few months left on his existing insurance to the new car. Mr F 
paid a £78.43 increase in the cost to cover the newer car, then arranged his insurance with a 
different company when he was due to renew his cover, just over two months later. 
Hastings also gave Mr F £100 to acknowledge the upset and inconvenience caused by their 
mistake. When our investigator looked at the case, she felt this was a suitable amount of 
compensation. But Mr F felt this didnt reflect the time hed spent dealing with the problems 
caused by the mistake. So the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Hastings have taken reasonable steps to try to put right their mistake. 
Ill explain why, but as the actual mistake is agreed by both sides, Ill focus my explanation 
on the impact the mistake had on Mr F, and how that leads to the remedy Hastings have 
already given him. 
I appreciate Mr F was trying to research the cost of having the new car before he bought it. 
But it sounds from his call with Hastings that hed made up his mind to buy the new car  
hed picked it out and booked a day to go get it. I dont think that decision would have been 
different had Hastings told him more accurately how much the car would cost to insure with 
them. So Im not going to try to compensate Mr F buying this car instead of a different one.
And Im not going to hold Hastings to the quote as if the contract had been completed. They 
should have given Mr F more accurate information from the start, but it was importantly 
corrected before any payment was made and cover began. I recognise Mr Fs concerns that 
if the mistake hadnt been spotted before the policy began he could potentially have been 
driving without insurance. But Hastings spotted the mistake before that happened, so they 
dont need to compensate Mr F for it. 
What did happen was Mr F had an unpleasant surprise when he found he couldnt get the 
insurance cover he wanted for the price hed been expecting to pay. I can appreciate that 
would be upsetting. And it meant Mr F then shopped around to find a better price than 
Hastings were offering, which he hadnt been expecting hed need to do, given he was 
happy with the price theyd quoted. 
Putting a value on the disappointment Mr F felt is a matter of opinion. But I find the £100 
Hasting paid recognises the trouble and upset here, while also reflecting that the mistake 
was spotted before it caused more significant problems for Mr F. This is also in line with 
other awards our service has made for similar levels of upset. So Ive decided its the right 
amount for this case.
My final decision
Hastings Insurance Services Limited have already taken suitable steps to resolve Mr Fs 
complaint, so I dont uphold this complaint about them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman