DRN-4011154
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its account without any 
notice.
What happened
Barclays said it had contacted F for information as part of a know your customer exercise 
and to meet regulatory requirements. It had sent reminders and then a notice of closure. F 
hadnt responded and so its account had been closed in November 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Barclays said it had 
contacted F on 8 March, 26 April and 17 May 2022 about the requirement. And then sent a 
letter giving notice of closure on 21 June 2022. It said it didnt have up to date details to be 
able to send a text message. Barclays added that a banner online about the requirement 
would be visible if F logged on. Under the terms and conditions of the account it could close 
an account with two months notice. He couldnt see that Barclays had made an error in 
following its process. It had told F that it could apply to reopen the account if it wanted to.
F didnt agree. The director said he had now been receiving texts and messages but not in 
2022. He said that hed expect there to be a proof of posting of at least one letter especially 
given the importance of this. And he didnt think that Barclays would have accepted F had 
sent a letter that it didnt receive without proof of posting. Barclays would often call about 
other things and should have called here. And this had caused a lot of stress. The director 
wanted to know why it had taken six weeks to return the money to his personal account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Through our investigator I asked Barclays to provide copies of the templates of the letters 
sent and an audit of when and where they were sent to. It provided information about this.
The first contact on 8 March 2022 is reported as being by digital outreach. I cant be 
confident that did reach F. However, Ive seen an audit extract in relation to subsequent 
letters and the templates. Reminders were sent on 26 April and 17 May 2022. And a notice 
to close sent on 21 June 2022. These went to the address Barclays had on record and which 
is the one weve also been given by F as part of this complaint. Barclays has provided 
information about what would have been visible on online or mobile banking about the 
requirements. I note though that the director of F told us he didnt access the account online.
I appreciate why F thinks that the letters ought to have been sent with a proof of postage or 
that Barclays should have ensured contact through other methods. I dont see that this was a 
requirement here and I take into account that these letters were sent in different months, to a 
correct address and that Barclays cant be responsible for the postal system. Sending letters 
in this way met the requirement for notice under the terms and conditions and it didnt have 
to use any other method.
Barclays process when an account is closed is to issue a cheque in the name of the 
accountholder. Here I understand that the director then asked for a payment into his 
personal account. Barclays says that this took additional time and now apologises for the 
inconvenience. This wasnt a complaint point here and I provide this information neutrally 
and F can pursue this further with Barclays if it wants to.
In terms of this current complaint, Im afraid I dont consider Barclays has made a mistake 
and so I wont be asking it to do anything more. I appreciate that the director will be 
disappointed especially given what he says about the personal impact of what happened for 
him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman