DRN-3506751
The complaint
Mr L says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr L took out three instalment loans from ELL. A summary of his borrowing follows. 
Loans 2 and 3 were both used in part to settle the previous loan.
Mr L says ELLs checks were not proportionate, it should have done more before lending to
him. The loans had high interest rates and caused him stress and financial hardship.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said ELL should have done more to
understand Mr Ls financial position before lending. But based on the information he had
seen there was nothing to indicate Mr L would have been unable to sustainably repay the
three loans.
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I reached a different conclusion, so I issued a provisional decision. An extract follows and 
forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any comments or new evidence 
by 1 June 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr L before it approved the loans. It asked
for details of his income and checked this on payslips and/or bank statements he provided.
It estimated his living costs using national statistics and added a buffer to cover any
unplanned expenses. It also checked Mr Ls credit file to understand his existing monthly
credit commitments and credit history each time. From these checks combined ELL
concluded Mr L could afford to take on the loans.
I think these checks were reasonable and proportionate and the decision to give loan 1 was
fair, but it wasnt for loans 2 or 3. Our adjudicator referred to evidence he had not received
(copies of joint account statements) that prevented him from assessing the lending
decisions. I can see there were some transfers to a joint account, but I think from the
available evidence it is possible to assess ELLs lending decisions. Mr L has explained the
joint account was held with a family member and was to cover mortgage payments. Where
the evidence is incomplete I have made findings based on the balance of probabilities, so
based on what it most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ill explain my findings.
Loan 1
This was Mr Ls first loan from ELL. It was for work in his garden. The monthly repayment of
£81.59 was a small percentage of his verified income of £2,611.52. Whilst the credit check
showed he had previously used payday loans (five in the previous 12 months), these had
been settled and he now had a low level of unsecured debt (£1,024 on a credit card) that he
was managing well. I dont think in these circumstances further checks were needed, nor
was there information that showed there was a risk Mr L might be unable to sustainably
repay the loan.
It follows I dont think ELL was wrong to give loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr L returned to borrow five months into the 18-month term of loan 1, this time he wanted
the loan to repay another loan, and to settle loan 1. His credit check showed he had taken
out two further loans (one just before loan 1 that didnt appear on his file at the time of the
previous checks). It showed his overall level of unsecured indebtedness had increased but
remained low at £2,499 and he was up-to-date with all his repayments.
But ELL could see from his bank statements that he was now persistently reliant on his
overdraft facility, only remaining in credit after his payday for a couple of days. So as it was
emerging that Mr L was having problems managing his money, I think ELL ought to have
realised there was a risk he would be unable to sustainably repay this loan  so without
borrowing to repay (be that through additional loans or his overdraft), or suffering some other
adverse financial consequence. And ELL needed to consider this, not just the pounds and
pence affordability to meet its regulatory obligations.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr L.
Loan 3
Mr L returned to borrow again four months into the term of loan 2, this time he explained he
owed a family member money. This was the third time Mr L had returned to borrow from ELL
in less than 12 months. The loan doubled the amount of high-cost debt he owed the lender.
So I think by this stage the lender ought to have realised continuing to lend to Mr L would
most likely be harmful. It could see from its checks that his bank account was now never in
credit and he was still needing to take out payday loans. Mr L was clearly having problems
managing his money and it was most likely the loan would not be sustainably affordable for
him.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 3 to Mr L.
I havent seen any evidence ELL acted unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way. He
complained that the interest rates were very high. I accept the APR was high, but Mr L had
to actively engage in the application process, so I think its likely that he was aware of what
he was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything which makes me think that ELL treated
Mr L unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. The interest
and charges on loans 2 and 3 will be refunded as Ive concluded those loans shouldnt have
been given.I then set out what ELL would need to do if I upheld the complaint in part.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any comments or new evidence for me to consider I have no reason 
to change the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
I find ELL was wrong to give loans 2 and 3 to Mr L.
Putting things right
Loans 2 and 3
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt have
been provided to him.
So ELL should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr L received as a result of having been given
loans 2 and 3. The repayments Mr L made should be deducted from this amount.
If reworking Mr Ls loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ls account results in there still be a capital balance outstanding ELL
should work with Mr L to agree an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the
loans 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr L a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ls complaint in part. Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday 
Loans, must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman