DRN-3711386
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) declined their travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. The policy was 
underwritten by Mapfre. 
They booked a family holiday in February 2021 for a trip that was due to take place in June 
2021. The flight provider cancelled their return flight, but the cost for this was refunded later. 
Mr and Mrs T had to therefore purchase return flights which were more expensive than the 
flights that were booked and cancelled. 
They submitted a claim to Mapfre for the difference in the cost of the cancelled flight and the 
new flights they had to book. Mapfre declined the claim as it said there was no section under 
their policy that covered the cost of the new flight booking made as a result of the fully 
refunded cancelled flights.  
Unhappy with Mapfres response, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. She said information had been requested from both parties but not 
everything was provided. So, based on the limited information she had been given, she 
didnt uphold the claim. She said Mapfre would only be liable to cover Mr and Mrs Ts 
original flights which were cancelled. However, as the flight provider had refunded the cost of 
the original flights, there is no cover under the policy for the new flights that were booked. 
Mapfre wouldnt be responsible for paying the difference in the cost of the original flights and 
the new booking. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say insurers must handle claims fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my decision 
about Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
I must make it clear that my decision will be based on limited information thats been made 
available to me. Information has been requested from both parties  this included the policy 
terms and conditions, the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and any other 
relevant information but havent been provided.
I can see that Mapfre has provided some information in the form of notes from the claim that 
was made. This includes an extract from the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy. 
So, Ive taken this into account as well as all the other information provided by Mr and Mrs T. 
Ive also been able to consider a similar travel policy document available online to see 
whether the policy terms and conditions apply to the claim made by Mr and Mrs T. 
In terms of the cancellation section of the policy, this doesnt apply as the holiday wasnt 
cancelled. Mr and Mrs T still went ahead on their holiday albeit by having to make a new 
booking for their return flights. The missed departure section of the policy also doesnt 
therefore apply. 
Ive considered the notes of the complaint provided by Mapfre which includes the extract 
from the terms and conditions of the policy. The section K1/K2 of the policy sets out what 
cover is available in the case of a Delayed Departure/Holiday Abandonment. This says:
Section K1/K2: Delayed Departure/Holiday Abandonment
What is Covered
If departure of the scheduled Public transport on which You are booked to travel is 
delayed at the final departure point from or to the United Kingdom for:
i) At least 12 hours from the scheduled time of departure of departure in respect 
of subsection K1  Delayed Departure (see below) due to: or
ii) At least 24 hours from the scheduled time of departure in respect of 
subsection K2  Holiday Abandonment (see below) due to:
a) Strike or
b) Industrial action or
c) Adverse weather conditions or
d) Mechanical breakdown of or a technical fault occurring in the scheduled 
Public Transport on which You are booked to travel. 
We will pay you: 
K1. Delayed Departure  The amount shown in the Policy Schedule for the first 
completed 12 hours delay and an additional amount for each full 12 hours delay 
thereafter up to the maximum amount shown in the Policy Schedule.
K2. Holiday Abandonment  Up to the amount shown in the Policy Schedule for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges 
which You have paid or are contracted to pay if after a minimum 24 hours has 
elapsed, You choose to cancel Your trip before departing from the United Kingdom.
Based on the above, theres no cover available under this section either for the additional 
flight booking. The departure wasnt delayed, and the holiday didnt have to be abandoned. 
The additional cost that Mr and Mrs T are claiming for having to book new return flights isnt 
a listed event that provides cover under the policy. The original flight that was booked has 
been refunded by the flight provider. Mr and Mrs T still went ahead with their holiday and 
they chose to book a new flight for the cost it was at the time. I understand why they did that 
and its unfortunate that the cost of the flights werent the same as the original booking, but 
from the information thats available to me, thats not a cost that Mapfre is responsible for. 
There is no section under the policy terms and conditions that would apply in the situation 
that Mr and Mrs T found themselves in that I can see. Im not therefore persuaded that 
Mapfre declined the claim unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs T have said there was a telephone call they had with the 
insurer to find out if cover for the additional flights they booked was available under their 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs T were unsure whether they called the broker, the administrators or Mapfre. 
From the information available, its seems likely that Mr and Mrs T called the broker. So, in 
terms of being provided with incorrect information, if they are still unhappy, they should raise their complaint with the broker directly as Mapfre wouldnt be responsible for the information 
they were given at the time. Im unable to comment on this further. 
Overall, taking everything available into account, I dont think Mapfre has declined 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint unfairly or unreasonably. It follows therefore that I dont require 
Mapfre to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman