DRN-3378060
The complaint
Mr W complains about issues he experienced when his agreement with Go Car Credit 
Limited ended.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
GCC.
At the end of the agreement Mr W raised a complaint with GCC. He was unhappy that the 
removal of the payment reminder system from the car was his responsibility. He was also 
unhappy that GCC didnt accept large payments by card, and said hed been given incorrect 
information when he contacted GCC to settle the agreement.
In response, GCC said that the payment reminder system was remotely terminated when the 
account was settled. It offered to remove it at no cost to Mr W. GCC said it was its policy not 
to accept payments larger than £1000 by card, and that a bank transfer was required. GCC 
acknowledged that it provided poor customer service and incorrect information to Mr W and 
offered compensation of £50.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was a condition of the agreement that 
the car was fitted with the payment reminder device and he thought GCCs offer to remove 
this at no cost to Mr W was fair. The investigator said that GCCs procedure in relation to 
large payments wasnt something that this service could ask GCC to change. The 
investigator said that GCs offer of £50 for providing incorrect information to Mr W was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr W didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starter interrupt device
Ive looked at the agreement. This says that the starter interrupt device (payment reminder 
system) must be fitted to the car as a condition of the agreement. Mr W has signed the 
agreement and in doing so, has accepted the terms and conditions. So, Im unable to say 
that the device shouldnt have been fitted to the car.
GCC has explained that the device is deactivated when the agreement is settled. It also 
offered to remove the device for Mr W at no cost to him. I think this was a fair offer to resolve 
this aspect of Mr Ws complaint.
Payments
Ive looked at the agreement. This doesnt say anything about how payments will be 
accepted. GCC has explained that it has a policy of requiring payments over £1000 to be 
made by bank transfer rather than by card online or over the phone. I appreciate that Mr W 
was unhappy that he couldnt use his card to settle the agreement. However, this service 
isnt able to tell a business what policies it should or shouldnt follow. In the circumstances, 
Im unable to say that GCC did anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly when it refused to 
accept a large payment over the phone.
Poor service and incorrect information
Ive listened to the telephone calls between Mr W dated 13 September 2021, 21 September 
2021 and 24 September 2021. During the first call, Mr W requested and was provided with a 
settlement figure. He asked to pay by card but was advised that large payment couldnt be 
taken by card over the phone. There was also some discussion about the removal of the 
payment reminder device. Having listened to the call, Im unable to say that any of the 
information provided to Mr W was wrong. GCC has acknowledged that it could have 
provided better service during the call.
In the second call, Mr W wanted to make a payment of £500 and further payment to settle 
the agreement. GCC advised Mr W that he would need to pay by bank transfer and provided 
details to him. Having listened to the call, I dont think any of the information provided was 
incorrect.
In the third call, GCC advised Mr W that his payment was £80 short. This information was 
incorrect, because GCC had failed to account for Mr Ws payment of around £80 on 1 
September 2021. This resulted in a situation where Mr W overpaid by around £80, which I 
understand has now been refunded. GCC has acknowledged that it provided incorrect 
information to Mr W during this call and has offered compensation of £50 which I think is fair.
Mr W has said that there was a delay in GCC showing the agreement as settled. Hes said 
that this impacted on his ability to sell the car. Ive looked into this and I can see that Mr Ws 
payment was allocated to the account on 21 September 2021 and that it was updated and 
marked as settled on 24 September 2021. Whilst I can see that there was a delay following 
Mr Ws payment before the account was updated to show as settled, I dont think such a 
short delay would have impacted on Mr W selling the car. I understand that Mr W has now 
sold the car.
Taking everything into account, and whilst I appreciate that Mr W has found the process of 
settling the account frustrating, I think the offer of £50 made by GCC in recognition of poor 
service and incorrect information is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking GCC to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman