DRN-1637624
 
The complaint
Ms R and Mr W complain about a mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct. 
Ms R says she should never have been on the mortgage in the first place; it should be 
Mr Ws mortgage alone. And they say when Mr W applied to take it over in his own name, 
First Direct and its conveyancers caused significant delay. The transfer didnt go through, 
and Mr W has been paying the standard variable rate since  meaning hes paid more 
interest than he should.
What happened
This mortgage was taken out with First Direct in around 2014. Ms R and Mr W were in a 
relationship at the time and decided to buy a property together. They bought as tenants in 
common, with Ms R having a slightly larger share. Ms R had enough money to contribute her 
share of the purchase price from her own resources, but a mortgage was needed to 
contribute Mr Ws share.
Ms R says that First Direct forced her to be on the mortgage against her will. She didnt need 
to be, and should never have been. As far as she was concerned, this was Mr Ws debt and 
only concerned his share of the property. She owns her share of the property outright.
Ms R and Mr W previously complained about this. Another ombudsman reviewed all the 
evidence from the time of the sale and decided that, in fact, Ms R did want to be on the 
mortgage and it was a joint application, not an application in Mr Ws name. First Direct were 
prepared to lend to Mr W alone, but it was Ms R and Mr Ws decision to apply for a joint 
mortgage. 
Ms R and Mr W didnt accept the ombudsmans decision. While that complaint was being 
considered, Mr W applied to First Direct to take the mortgage over in his sole name. First 
Direct granted the application and appointed a firm Ill call E to carry out the legal work.
E wrote to Ms R and Mr W separately. It said that Ms R was required to get her own 
independent legal advice, because the mortgage transfer into Mr Ws name would mean 
there was now a mortgage secured on her property but not in her name. It needed her to get 
independent advice about the implications of that and confirm she was happy to proceed.
There followed various discussions. Exactly what happened is disputed so Ill deal with it 
below. But its not in doubt that the application didnt proceed. The mortgage remains in joint 
names to this day. First Direct says that the offer expired but that Mr W is welcome to make 
a new application which will be considered.
Ms R and Mr W complained. This complaint has been mainly dealt with by Ms R who says 
she shouldnt be on the mortgage in the first place. Ms R has said at various times that First 
Direct should pay for her legal advice because its to blame for it being needed; and that she 
has already taken legal advice and been advised not to give her consent to the transfer going ahead. She wants not only to be taken off the mortgage, but for the mortgage to be 
secured only over Mr Ws share of the property. 
The application to transfer into Mr Ws sole name was also an application for a new interest 
rate product. When it didnt go ahead, the mortgage reverted to the higher SVR, and Ms R 
and Mr W say its not fair that Mr W has been forced to pay more interest than he needed to 
because of First Direct and Es failures. 
First Direct didnt initially uphold the complaint, though while our investigator was considering 
things, it offered £100 compensation for delays in responding to their complaints. Our 
investigator thought that was a fair offer and didnt think First Direct needed to do anything 
else. So Ms R and Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained, another ombudsman has already considered what happened when this 
mortgage was taken out in 2014. Unless theres material new evidence which wasnt 
available at the time thats since come to light and which is likely to affect the outcome, our 
rules dont allow us to reconsider complaints that an ombudsmans decided. I appreciate 
Ms Rs strength of feeling about what she says happened. And Ive considered what she has 
to say. But I dont think theres any material new evidence which wasnt available to the 
previous ombudsman. So neither I nor any other ombudsman has the power to overturn or 
change the outcome of that decision.
The ombudsman noted that Ms R was actively involved in the mortgage application and 
signed all the documentation. She was aware of what was happening and was content to be 
a party to the mortgage. First Direct correctly set this up as a joint mortgage. 
As I say, I cant change the outcome that ombudsman reached. She found as a fact that this 
was properly a joint mortgage. So from now on, I will proceed on this basis. It was properly 
set up as a joint mortgage in 2014  but by 2017, Ms R and Mr W had decided it should be 
in Mr Ws name only and applied to First Direct to transfer it over. And, as that is the case, I 
dont think its First Directs fault that the application had to be made, and so I dont think it 
would be fair to expect it to pay Ms Rs legal costs.
And against that factual background, I dont think that what Ms R wants is actually possible. 
She wants the mortgage to be in Mr Ws sole name, and to be secured only over his share of 
the property  with her share being mortgage free. But thats not how mortgages work; 
theyre secured over the property as a whole. So even if Ms R was removed and it became 
solely Mr Ws mortgage, Ms Rs share of the property would still be subject to the mortgage. 
I think its likely thats what the three separate solicitors Ms R says she consulted advised 
her, and thats why they advised her not to agree to the transfer of the mortgage. 
Ive looked at all the evidence. Ive considered everything that passed between Ms R and 
Mr W, E and First Direct. The application was progressed to E in early 2018. E wrote to 
Ms R explaining she would need to take independent legal advice and asking her to sign and 
return confirmation that shed done so and was prepared to go ahead. In response, Ms R 
renewed her complaint about what had happened in 2014, asked that First Direct pay her 
legal fees, and insisted she shouldnt be party to the mortgage. But she didnt return the 
requested confirmation. E passed Ms Rs complaints on to First Direct, which didnt respond to her. E also chased 
Ms R for the completion of the declaration it needed. As it didnt receive it, E couldnt 
progress the transfer of the mortgage  and in due course the time limited offer lapsed. I 
think it was clear that the offer was only open for six months, and when Ms R didnt return 
her signed agreement in that time, it expired.
Its true that First Direct didnt respond to the complaints Ms R made and E passed on. But, 
ultimately, I dont think thats why the transfer to Mr W didnt go ahead. It would only go 
ahead if Ms R agreed, having taken independent legal advice. At times Ms R said First 
Direct should pay for her advice, at times she said she had taken advice and been advised 
not to sign. In any case, she didnt return her signed agreement  and so the transfer 
couldnt proceed. I dont think First Direct is responsible for that.
The transfer to Mr W also included a new interest rate product  and so when one part of the 
application fell, so did the other. The mortgage reverted to the SVR, and thats the rate its 
been on since. 
However, the two applications dont have to be made at the same time. Theres nothing to 
stop Mr W applying for a new interest rate at any time, separately. I think First Direct 
explained that. I dont think its responsible for the mortgage being on the SVR since 2018.
Ms R and Mr W can apply at any time for a new interest rate, or for the mortgage to be 
transferred into Mr Ws sole name, or both. First Direct has said its willing to consider new 
applications, and I think thats fair. But I agree its important that Ms R gets independent 
legal advice about the consequences of that for her  and, as the previous ombudsman 
found First Direct wasnt at fault in setting the mortgage up in joint names, I dont think First 
Direct should pay for that advice.
Ive said that First Direct didnt deal with Ms R and Mr Ws complaints as quickly as it should 
have done. Its now acknowledged that and offered £100 compensation. I appreciate Ms R 
and Mr W found this upsetting. But I dont think its the reason the application failed, and so I 
think its a fair offer in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
I think HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct has made a fair and reasonable offer to 
settle this complaint. It should pay Ms R and Mr W £100 compensation, but other than that I 
dont direct it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct to pay Ms R and 
Mr W £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman