DRN-4322613
The complaint
Mr P complains about a repair carried out by Alwyn Insurance Company Limited after he 
made a claim on his landlord home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr P holds landlord home emergency cover with Alwyn. He made a claim after being told by 
his tenant that water was coming through the flat roof of the property, and entering the 
bedroom. 
Alwyns contractor visited the property to do an inspection, and carried out a temporary 
repair to the roof. Despite this, rainwater was again able to enter the property. Mr P arranged 
a permanent repair around eight weeks after the contractor had visited the property. He 
wanted Alwyn to contribute towards the cost of repairing the internal water damage to the 
bedroom. Alwyn refused to do so, and so Mr P brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Whilst she accepted that the 
temporary repair hadnt been effective, she thought Mr P hadnt taken sufficient action to 
mitigate his loss, as he arranged the permanent repair some weeks after he knew water was 
still entering the property. She didnt think any damage had been caused in the immediate 
few weeks after the temporary repair had been done. She therefore didnt ask Alwyn to 
contribute towards the internal repair costs. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for roof damage. It says:
What you are covered for
Emergency repairs to the roof of your home following an emergency which occurs as a result 
of adverse weather conditions or fallen trees.
Please note
(i) an authorised repairer will attempt to prevent any further damage or water ingress 
which may involve using a tarpaulin or similar material to resolve the 
emergency
The policy also says that in the event of a claim, the authorised repairer will attempt to carry 
out a temporary repair, and it is then the insureds responsibility to carry out any subsequent 
permanent repair. 
Ive looked at the photos of the temporary repairs carried out by Alwyns contractor. These 
show that repairs were carried out to the tiled roof. But the water ingress was to the 
bedroom, which was below the flat roof at the rear of the property. 
Alwyns contracting company says the roof was in poor condition, and its contractor repaired 
most of the obvious areas on the roof that would cause leaks. They said the area of damage 
by the flat roof wouldnt have been visible as it was covered by a row of tiles, though they 
accepted the contractor could have paid more attention to the location of the leak. They also 
said that the damage that was repaired was all wear and tear and probably not covered by 
the policy. 
Ive noted the contracting companys comments, but Im minded to agree with our 
investigator here. If the suspected areas of damage werent covered by the policy, then the 
engineer didnt need to carry out any repairs. But as the engineer did decide to do the 
temporary repairs, I think he ought to have checked where the actual leak was, and 
investigated this area more thoroughly. If hed done so, I think its likely he would have 
carried out a temporary repair in the correct place.  
However, Mr P was still required to arrange a permanent repair after any temporary repair 
had been carried out by Alwyns contractor. I understand there was some good weather after 
Alwyns contractor had carried out the temporary repairs, and so Mr P didnt realise the area 
where the water had previously entered hadnt had a temporary repair. Nonetheless, and 
particularly given that winter was approaching, I would have expected Mr P to have taken 
action to arrange a permanent repair, given that he thought only a temporary repair had 
taken place which could have failed at any time. 
In mid-December 2022, there was heavy snowfall and rain and the tenant reported further 
water entering the bedroom. Despite this, Mr P didnt contact his own roofer until the 
beginning of January 2023, and the permanent repair wasnt completed until 14 January 
2023. This was nearly two months after Alwyns contractor had attended. Ive noted Mr Ps 
comments that he was trying to get the photos of the temporary repair from Alwyn, but I cant 
see that these would have been necessary for him to obtain a quote for a permanent repair 
from his own roofer. 
Therefore, whilst I accept Alwyns contractor didnt take enough care to carry out the 
temporary repair in the correct place, I dont find that Alwyn should cover the cost of any 
further damage that happened. Thats because this didnt happen for some weeks, and I 
think Mr P had sufficient time by that point to arrange a permanent repair, but failed to do so. 
Though in any event, once he became aware that rainwater was still entering the property, I 
think he should have taken action to limit the damage, but instead he delayed arranging a 
repair for a number of weeks whilst the damage continued.
Mr P thinks Alwyns contractor damaged the gutter at the front of his property. Though as our 
investigator has pointed out, the photo of the gutter taken by the contractor shows it to have 
a lot of debris. Although Mr P thinks Alwyns contractor cleared the debris and moss from the 
roof into the gutter, they didnt report doing so and I dont think this would be necessary in 
order to carry out the temporary repair to the roof. I therefore dont find that Alwyn is 
responsible for repairs that were needed to the gutter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman