DRN-3615011
The complaint
Mr B complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) provided poor service and 
delayed the transfer into his Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mr B says he visited a branch of Halifax in late March 2022 and was given misleading 
information about the transfer of his ISA to Halifax, from another provider. Mr B says this 
meant he had to make another trip to a branch a couple of weeks later to organise the ISA 
transfer to Halifax. Mr B says although he gave instructions to transfer the ISA from the other 
provider that day, it wasnt concluded until early June 2022. 
Mr B says he was stressed and worried by this long delay and Halifax have only offered him 
£100 by way of compensation, which he doesnt feel goes far enough. 
Halifax says it upheld Mr Bs complaint and accepted it was at fault for not initiating the ISA 
transfer request and have paid him £100 in compensation and reworked the interest he lost 
as a result of the delay. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all of the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. 
The investigator felt while Halifax were at fault for not initiating the ISA transfer as requested 
by Mr B, it had adequately compensated him for that. The investigator says Halifax werent 
responsible for the ongoing delay of funds from the other ISA provider. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr B to have to wait several weeks before 
his ISA transfer request was finally completed. When looking at this complaint I will consider 
if Halifax, having accepted it made an error here, adequately compensated Mr B for that.  
The first thing to say here is Halifax have acknowledged it made an error for both the initial 
advice it gave Mr B concerning the transfer of his ISA from another provider, and also failed 
to send the transfer request when it should have. 
What is important here is Halifax have compensated Mr B for any loss of interest he would 
have earned on his ISA, as a result of the delay and also paid him £100 by way of 
compensation for his time dealing with the matter and the inconvenience this caused him.
I understand Mr B doesnt think that level of compensation fairly reflects the upset this matter 
has caused him. From the information provided I can see Halifax having put Mr B to the 
trouble of visiting the branch to make the transfer, after initially giving him the wrong 
information, paid him £50 for that to cover his petrol costs and time. It then also delayed the 
transfer of the ISA for almost two weeks and paid him an additional £50 for that. What is 
important to say here is from the notes and screen shots provided by Halifax, the ongoing 
delays of the receipt of funds from the other provider wasnt due to any mistakes by them. It 
seems the other provider had requested further information about the transfer, but this 
information had already been provided by Halifax and I can see Halifax regularly chased the 
other provider for the funds.
I can also see from the notes provided to me that on more than one occasion Halifax 
attempted to telephone Mr B to keep him informed of the progress of the transfer, but it 
wasnt able to get through. So, taking all of this into account, I cant say Halifax were fully 
responsible for the ongoing delays from the time it sent the ISA request in late April 2022, 
accepting of course that was initially delayed, until the funds were finally received in early 
June 2022. 
Afterall despite this, Halifax did pay Mr B the interest he would have earned if the transfer 
had gone  ahead on the day he opened the account in mid-April 2022, and its worth bearing 
in mind such transfers can take some time to complete -up to thirty days for this type of ISA, 
so Halifax have acted fairly here. 
Its also worth adding its not the role of this service to penalise businesses when mistakes 
like this are made, but to see it apologises, makes a proportionate compensation payment 
and puts the customer back to the position they would have been before the mistake 
occurred  I am satisfied on balance Halifax did that here. 
While Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Halifax here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman