DRN-3061983
The complaint
Mr C and Ms M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited has not cancelled a loan agreement 
they took out with it, even though they cancelled the underlying timeshare agreement.
What happened
In October 2012 Mr C and Ms M entered into a timeshare agreement with a Spanish 
company, which Ill call C. To pay for the timeshare, they took out a 25-year loan with 
Shawbrook. 
Mr C and Ms M used the timeshare membership  apparently without issue  but in 2016 a 
change in their circumstances meant that they were no longer able to take full advantage of 
it. They contacted C to see if they could cancel the membership. 
On 9 August 2016 Mr C and Ms M signed an agreement surrendering the timeshare. The 
agreement included:
If applicable, any finance loan taken in connection with this purchase remains our sole 
responsibility. 
Mr C and Mrs M then contacted Shawbrook. They said that, as they had cancelled their 
timeshare membership, they also had the right to cancel the loan agreement linked to it. 
Shawbrook did not agree and said that they were contractually liable to make the loan 
payments as agreed. 
Mr C and Ms M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered 
what had happened. He did not think there was any legal basis on which the loan agreement 
could be cancelled and so did not recommend the complaint be upheld. He did however 
suggest that Mr C and Ms M get in touch with Shawbrook if they were having difficulty 
making payments, since Shawbrook should work with them to try to agree suitable payment 
arrangements.
Mr C and Ms M did not accept the investigators view and asked through their representative 
that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Ms M have not suggested that there was anything wrong with the timeshare 
contract or with the service they received from C and its linked companies. On the contrary, 
they said that their reason for wanting to cancel the timeshare was a change in their 
circumstances. 
They confirmed that in the Surrender Agreement, which included:
We acknowledge that our request is made voluntarily by us and that the actions taken 
by [C] are ex gratia and without admission of any responsibility or liability on the part of 
[C].   
What I need to consider therefore is whether, given the circumstances of the cancellation of 
their agreement with C, the loan agreement was automatically cancelled or, alternatively, Mr 
C and Ms M were entitled to cancel it. 
In support of that position, Mr C and Ms Ms representatives cited Law 4/2012 which, they 
said, superseded EU Directive 2008/122/EC (the Directive). Both pieces of legislation 
provide certain protections for consumers in timeshare contracts. On the face of it, however, 
Law 4/2012 is a piece of Spanish legislation which implements the Directive and is 
consistent with it. Be that as it may, the timeshare contract said that it was to be construed in 
accordance with English law, so the Spanish legislation has no application here. The loan 
agreement too was subject to English law and UK regulations. 
The Directive says that consumers entering into timeshare contracts can cancel within 14 
days without having to provide any reason. That period is extended if the timeshare provider 
does not give proper notice of the right to cancel. If notice of cancellation is given in line with 
those provisions, any ancillary agreement is also cancelled. An ancillary agreement includes 
any finance agreement entered into under arrangements between the timeshare business 
and the lender. The Directive was transposed into UK law by The Timeshare, Holiday 
Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Regulations). 
The loan agreement was therefore an ancillary agreement to the timeshare agreement. It 
follows that, if the timeshare agreement was validly cancelled under the Regulations, the 
loan agreement was automatically terminated as well (regulation 24 of the Regulations and 
Article 11 of the Directive).
However, the timeshare agreement was not cancelled through the implementation of the 
Regulations or the Directive. It was cancelled well outside the relevant timeframes. C agreed 
to the cancellation as a concession  the surrender agreement expressly said that 
cancellation was accepted on an ex gratia basis. It follows therefore that Mr C and Ms M 
cannot rely on the cancellation provisions of the Regulations or the Directive; it follows too 
that the loan agreement was not automatically terminated when the timeshare agreement 
was cancelled. 
Where a contract is validly rescinded  for example, because goods do not meet their 
description or because of a misrepresentation  there is case law saying that a linked 
finance agreement is terminated at the same time (see the Supreme Courts judgment in 
Durkin v DSG Retail Limited). In this case however, the timeshare contract was not 
rescinded  C agreed to release Mr C and Ms M form their obligations under it as a 
concession. So, I do not believe that has any application here. 
It follows that it was not unfair for Shawbrook to continue to hold Mr C and Ms M liable under 
the loan agreement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Shawbrook Bank Limited to do anything further to 
resolve Mr C and Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman