DRN-2895878
The complaint
Mr P complains as sole director of a company, P, that his Office Combined Insurance Policy 
supplied by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) was unsuitable and not fit for 
purpose, and he seeks a return of all the premiums paid on the policy.
What happened
Mr P was sold the policy in 2001 by a broker. That broker is no longer in business. The 
administration of the policy was taken over by another broker in 2010. Mr P initially made a 
complaint about the mis-sale of the policy to him by the broker. That complaint was looked at 
by this service and as a result one of my ombudsman colleagues decided that the complaint 
could only be looked at for any policy renewal after 2012, as complaints about any previous 
renewals were out of time. Another ombudsman colleague then considered the mis-sale 
complaint against the broker and didnt uphold it.
Mr P complained to RSA that the policy wasnt fit for purpose and was unsuitable. This was 
in particular because he worked from home and found the exclusions too onerous or 
restrictive and he believed wouldnt cover his working from home. He also said that the 
policy was onerous and very hard to understand. He further said that RSA had sought, 
erroneously, to charge P for premiums it said P owed, and had threatened it with debt 
collectors, thus damaging its credit record. RSA pointed out that it was aware that Mr Ps 
business premises were also his home address and was quite happy to cover him at those 
premises. It apologised for saying P owed premiums which it agreed was a mistake. It gave 
an assurance that no external agencies had been contacted about this and offered £250 
compensation, which Mr P rejected. 
On referral to this service our investigator said that RSA wasnt responsible for the sale of 
the policy and that the terms, conditions and exclusions were standard terms to be found in 
commercial policies. She said that RSA had acted reasonably in respect of Mr Ps complaint 
that P had been pursued for monies it didnt owe. 
Mr P strongly disagreed and said RSAs actions, in taking his money for an unsuitable policy 
for a number of years amounted to fraud. He said that because this was a criminal offence 
the limitation of the complaint to 2012 onwards shouldnt apply.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said, a previous decision has been made by an ombudsman at this service, 
concerning the alleged mis-sale of the policy. He specifically found that the policy wasnt 
mis-sold to P. He further found that the policy wasnt hard to read or understand. Im bound 
by those conclusions as they relate to the same policy and complaints.
As Ive also said a previous ombudsman found that Ps complaints were out of jurisdiction 
concerning any issue or renewal of the policy before 2012. I see no reason to change the 
position in respect of that. Mr P has made assertions of criminal activity which he says 
negates this. I dont agree although I should say that as its the content of the policy Im 
looking at that still applies to the post 2012 complaints.
mis-sale
For clarity I should say that I dont think, if the policy was unsuitable for P, RSA was 
responsible for the sale to Mr P or the selection of the policy. It was sold by, and taken over 
by independent brokers. And as Ive said, this service has already found there to be no mis-
sale. As the previous ombudsman also pointed out Mr P renewed the policy numerous times 
even though he says that hed consistently raised issues about its suitability and usefulness 
and continued to pay for it from 2001 until 2018. 
failure to issue policy document to P
Mr P says that despite asking a number of times over the years, the full policy document 
wasnt issued to him until 2012. That was a matter for him and his broker  RSA isnt 
responsible for the issue of the policy terms. In any event as Im only looking at matters post 
2012 this isnt relevant to the complaint Im considering.
unsuitability and content of the policy
RSA is responsible for the content of the policy. Mr P says the policy is unsuitable for his 
type of business and that the exclusions are extremely onerous and that if P made a claim 
on it P would likely not be covered. As far as Im aware Mr P hasnt made or sought to make 
a claim under the policy. He has raised specific examples of the terms/exclusions hes 
unhappy about:
He is the sole director of the company, so anything involving the director being excluded for 
policy cover is worrying. The policy is an Office policy which reflects terms generally 
available in commercial policies. I dont find any of the terms involving the actions or cover 
for directors to be unusual or onerous. The policy has cover for different types of
company and activities. It isnt a bespoke one involving Mr Ps type of company.
Mr P works from home and has done since the policy began. He believes working from 
home is excluded in all respects. RSA has explained that it is aware his business premises 
are also his home address, so the policy doesnt exclude working from home. The policy 
doesnt refer to working from home but sets out requirements for security of business 
premises, such as the type of locks, doors and alarms. Those are RSAs general 
requirements which I dont think are unreasonable  they may not be especially relevant to 
home premises. If Mr P was unhappy with any of the requirements it was up to him to 
approach the broker about it 
The policy requires an alarm system to be installed and approved by RSA. It also has to be 
connected to the police station. Mr P says he has a good reliable alarm system which he has 
declared, it isnt connected to the police station. This again is a common condition in this 
type of policy. It was up to Mr P in conjunction with his broker to ensure he complied with it. I 
would observe that he knew about the condition from at least 2012 and chose to continue 
with the policy. I cant say what might have happened in hypothetical scenario, if Mr P had 
made a claim. 
The policy requires fire extinguishers  he doesnt have any. I would think it extremely 
unlikely that any policy that covered business premises would not have this sort of condition. The policy doesnt cover computers going wrong or having computer viruses  again a 
reasonable and very common condition in commercial policies.  
His office is separated from the rest of the home by an ordinary internal door. Its 
unreasonable to expect him to comply with the conditions regarding security locks. Again the 
policy is one that refers to all types of office premises, so cant be said to be unreasonable. If 
Mr P had a special requirement for his office then he should have raised it with his broker. 
The policy cant cover all eventualities but if a business purchases its policy through a broker 
then if it has any specific requirements it should go through its broker. 
Those are some of the examples Mr P has pointed out. I wont go into all of them, as I think 
that RSA was entitled to decide what risks it was prepared to underwrite for commercial 
entities. Mr P has said he has only provided examples and that other terms of the policy are 
also unfair and unreasonable. Without any details of that I can say that I havent seen any 
wording which I think was unusual or too onerous in general. The schedule shows what risks 
Mr P wanted covered. In his exchanges with the broker Mr P was advised of a possible gap 
in cover regarding professional liability and asked if he wanted it added to the policy. As no 
claims were actually made again I cant deal with hypothetical scenarios, but in every case 
we say its reasonable to decide whether its fair to apply any particular exclusion. 
pursuing P for premiums it didnt owe
After the policy was cancelled RSA pursued P for monies it didnt owe and threatened it with 
a debt collection agency. RSA has admitted it was in error here. Its confirmed it hasnt 
placed the details with any external agencies and it hasnt affected Ps credit score. It offered 
Mr P £250 which he rejected.
I think RSAs response was appropriate, given its error, and the compensation offered is in 
my view reasonable. If RSA hadnt offered compensation for this I wouldnt have awarded 
more than £250.
overall 
My view overall is that:
RSA wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy.
The terms and conditions of the policy, applying as they do to a wide range of 
commercial policyholders, arent unreasonable or unfair in themselves. If Mr P had any 
difficulty in complying with specific terms or conditions, it was up to him to raise this with 
his broker.
Mr P continued to renew the policy for six years despite being aware of the terms and 
conditions from 2012. He had cover for his business premises and RSA was aware 
those premises were at his home. Its not therefore appropriate for RSA to refund any 
premiums.
RSA offered reasonable compensation for its error in pursuing Mr P for alleged unpaid 
premiums.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman