DRN-4119114
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from Tesla Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with TFS.
Mr C experienced issues with the car. The Sentry system didnt work correctly, and the 
cameras werent logging footage correctly.
The Sentry system was re-set by an engineer and worked for around two months before the 
cameras stopped working again.
An engineer looked at the car again but couldnt find a fault. The car continued to go back 
and forth to the dealership, but the issue wasnt resolved.
In November 2022 an engineer concluded that there was a fault with the Sentry system. 
Tesla attempted to repair the fault. The system worked for around two weeks before it 
stopped working again.
In December 2022 the engineer looked at the car again and concluded that a  software 
update was required, but that the update didnt currently exist and it would be necessary to 
wait for Tesla in the US to make this available.
Mr C complained to TFS. He said the main selling point of the car for him was the security 
features and he was unhappy that there was a fault with the Sentry system which hadnt 
been resolved.
In its final response, TFS acknowledged that the dealership had investigated the issue on at 
least four separate occasions but said that the Sentry system was a supporting feature and 
couldnt be relied upon to prevent all security threats.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that it was reasonable to expect that a brand 
new car should be free from this type of defect at the point of supply. He said the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality and said that because the attempts at repair hadnt been successful, 
Mr C should be allowed to reject the car. The investigator said that TFS should refund the 
advance payment and refund 10% of all payments made under the agreement.
TFS replied and said that whilst it agreed in principle with the investigators view, it disagreed 
with the proposed refund amounts. It said that Mr C had enjoyed extensive use of the car 
and that although it accepted that the issues with the Sentry system constitute a defect for 
the purposes of the relevant legislation, it didnt think it was reasonable to refund 10% of all 
monthly payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TFS has already acknowledged that the fault with the Sentry system is a defect for the 
purposes of the relevant legislation (the Consumer Rights Act 2015) so I wont be 
commenting further on whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
TFS has also acknowledged that there have been several attempts at repairing the fault with 
the Sentry system, none of which have been successful. Im satisfied that the business has 
had a reasonable opportunity to repair the fault and that the appropriate remedy here is 
rejection.
Mr C has been able to use the car despite the fault with the sentry system. However, the 
fault with the Sentry system has impacted on Mr Cs use and enjoyment of the car, because 
the system hasnt been performing as it should. The fault has left Mr C with concerns about 
the security of the car as the security features that were an important factor in his decision to 
purchase the car arent working as they should be. The fault has also impacted on Mr Cs 
use of the car in terms of where hes been comfortable to leave the car, as a result of the 
security system not functioning as it should. This is impaired use.
Taking this into account, I think its fair to ask TFS to refund a proportion of the monthly 
payments Mr C has made to reflect the impaired use. 
Ive also considered the impact that the fault has had on Mr C. He had to return the car 
several times and has travelled backwards and forwards to the dealership, which has 
caused inconvenience to Mr C. On one of these occasions, he wasnt provided with a 
courtesy car and had to sit and wait for several hours. I think its fair to ask TFS to pay 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C as a result of being 
supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
To put things right, Tesla Financial Services Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr C
Refund the advance payment of £27,895
Refund 10% of all rentals paid to reflect impaired use
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on all refunded amounts calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Cs credit file
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Tesla Financial Services Limited must take 
the steps Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman