DRN-3434269
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about harassment over a number of years by Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax since her mortgage term came to an end in 2016. Mrs G also says Halifax 
charged her an incorrect interest rate in some months, and that Halifax refused to offer her a 
new interest rate or agree that she could pay a lower interest rate of 2%.
What happened
I will keep my summary of the background to this complaint fairly brief. There are several 
reasons for this. First, the history of the matter is set out in detail in the correspondence 
between Mrs G, Halifax and in our investigators letters. Secondly, the main points of the 
complaint are not in dispute; it is only the way in which each party has interpreted those 
events that has caused the issue I am now considering. Finally, our decisions are published, 
so its important that I dont include any information that might lead Mrs G to be identified.
Briefly, acting on the advice of her mortgage broker, Mrs G took out a mortgage with Halifax 
in 2008. She borrowed £300,000 plus fees of £1,499.00 on an interest-only basis over a 
term of seven years. The mortgage offer records that Mrs G told Halifax that she would be 
using an ISA and a pension to pay off the mortgage at the end of the term.
The mortgage came to an end in January 2016. It was not repaid by Mrs G, who was then in 
breach of contract, as the mortgage agreement provided that payment had to be made in full 
at the end of the term. The mortgage was on a fixed rate until 30 November 2010, and 
thereafter on Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR).
Halifax granted various extensions to allow Mrs G to sell the property. Every time an 
extension expired, Mrs G assured Halifax she was in the process of selling, and so further 
extensions of time were granted. The last one was granted in May 2019, when Halifax 
agreed a further twelve months for Mrs G to sell the property. Unfortunately, the pandemic 
affected property viewings, but in August 2020 Mrs G told Halifax viewings could 
recommence. A final extension was granted to September 2020.
In March 2021 Mrs G complained to Halifax. She wasnt happy about calls received from the 
bank about repayment of the mortgage. Mrs G also thought shed been charged an incorrect 
interest rate in several months when SVR had reduced, but shed been charged a higher 
rate. Mrs G also said that if Halifax had been prepared to offer her a reasonable repayment 
mortgage over 15 years, shed have only been paying approximately 2% interest. Mrs G 
asked Halifax to review the situation and apply a reduced rate to her mortgage.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. It reviewed the contact with Mrs G but didnt think its 
contact had been excessive or inappropriate. The bank explained that its End of Term team 
operate only by telephone. Halifax said that until Mrs G had a plan in place to repay the 
mortgage, shed continue to be contacted by the bank. It was suggested that Mrs G might 
want to take independent financial advice, or alternatively speak to Halifax about an assisted 
sale.
Halifax also explained that, where there is a change in SVR, it takes effect the following 
month. So although Mrs G thought shed been overcharged for months where SVR had 
decreased, the change didnt affect her account until the following month. The bank also said 
it wasnt able to offer Mrs G another interest rate.
Mrs G was unhappy with Halifaxs response and complained to our service. In the meantime, 
she sold the property and the mortgage was redeemed on 15 September 2021. (Mrs G has 
raised a new complaint with Halifax about being forced to sell the property for less than its 
actual value, but that doesnt form part of this complaint.)
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied the contact with Halifax had been appropriate in all the 
circumstances. Although Mrs G said Halifax was telephoning her constantly at work, the 
investigator wasnt persuaded that Halifax had called any number other than the contact 
numbers it held for Mrs G. 
The investigator understood that Mrs G had felt pressurised, but thought that the 
forbearance Halifax had shown since the term came to an end in 2015 was reasonable. The 
investigator found that Halifax wasnt under any obligation to offer a new mortgage product, 
given that the contract had come to an end. She was also not persuaded that the interest 
rate was incorrect.
Mrs G disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
She cited various regulations which she said supported her complaint of harassment. In 
particular, Mrs G said that the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB) 7.3.10 said that Halifax mustnt pressurise a customer to pay a debt in 
a single, or very few, repayments or in unreasonably large amounts when to do so would 
have an adverse impact on her financial circumstances. In addition, Halifax wasnt allowed to 
pressurise her to pay a debt within an unreasonably short period of time or to raise funds to 
repay the debt by selling the property, borrowing money or increasing existing borrowing.
Mrs G also claims Halifax is acting against the Administration of Justice Act and The 
Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 by not respecting her contact 
preferences. Mrs G also maintains she was charged incorrect interest, in breach of 
regulations.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and these are my 
reasons.
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator, and we 
also have no power to determine whether or not Halifax has breached either regulations or 
legislation. My remit is to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Contact from Halifax: Halifax is required to treat customers fairly and reasonably and to 
allow forbearance where appropriate, in circumstances where the borrower is having 
difficulty with repayment. Where a mortgage contract has reached the end of its term, the borrower is expected to 
repay the balance in full. Mrs Gs mortgage was due to be repaid in January 2016. Halifax 
wrote to Mrs G a year before, and six months before, the end of the mortgage term to remind 
her of this. But it wasnt until September 2021, almost six years later, that the mortgage was, 
in fact, repaid. 
Having reviewed the contact history, Im satisfied Halifax granted Mrs G extended periods of 
time to sell the property. It was reasonable, in my opinion, for Halifax to contact Mrs G when 
the extensions had run out but the mortgage still hadnt been repaid. 
The contact notes dont persuade me that there was excessive telephone contact. The 
banks automated dialling system is set up to attempt to call up to three times a day. If one of 
the calls is successful, no further attempts will be made that day. If the call attempts arent 
successful, then the automated dialler queue will try to contact the customer the next day.
I am satisfied that Halifax explained to Mrs G on 4 March 2021 that no further holds would 
be applied and that calls from the bank would continue. The bank was keen to avoid 
litigation. Im not persuaded that the contact from Halifax amounted to harassment or that it 
was unreasonable for Halifax to seek updates. I think, after the mortgage balance remained 
due and owing to the bank by 2019, Halifax could reasonably at that stage have begun 
litigation to recover the debt. But instead Halifax granted Mrs G further forbearance, giving 
her more time to sell the property.
Overall, I dont find that Halifax either treated Mrs G unfairly or that it harassed her. I 
appreciate that Mrs G sees it differently, but Im not persuaded Halifax has done anything 
wrong here. Ive been unable to find MCOB 7.3.10 in the regulators handbook. It appears 
that what Mrs G has quoted in support of her claim that she was harassed is the Consumer 
Credit sourcebook, which doesnt apply to a regulated mortgage contract and so is of no 
relevance to this complaint.
However, Halifax wasnt, as Mrs G claims, trying to force her to repay a debt in a single 
instalment over a short period of time. The contract Mrs G had agreed to was that she would 
repay the mortgage balance in full in January 2016. She wasnt being pressurised to do so; it 
was Mrs G who had breached the terms of the contract and Halifax was entitled to seek 
repayment in full.
Interest rate: In its final response letter Halifax provided an explanation that a change in 
SVR in a given month would take effect from the following month. Ive looked at the interest 
rate applied to the mortgage and I can find no error. The Financial Ombudsman Service 
doesnt provide an auditing service, but from the information provided, Im not persuaded 
Halifax charged an incorrect rate of interest, either as alleged by Mrs G or at all.
Of course, its open to Mrs G to instruct an independent, suitably-qualified professional to 
audit her account. But that would have to be at her expense  though if errors were found to 
her financial detriment, she could complain about them and her costs in discovering them 
could be taken into account in putting matters right. But as things stand, Im not persuaded 
that Halifax has mis-managed her mortgage account.
New product: Once the mortgage term came to an end Halifax wasnt under any obligation 
either to transfer Mrs G onto a new mortgage product, or reduce her interest rate.  If Mrs G 
wasnt happy paying SVR, she had the option of applying for a new mortgage product if she 
had wanted to, either from Halifax or from another mortgage lender. This would have been 
subject to a full assessment of affordability and the application of lending criteria. I find Halifax did nothing wrong in not reducing Mrs Gs interest rate once the mortgage term 
had expired.
Conclusion: I can understand that, when she had difficulties selling her property, Mrs G 
found herself in a stressful situation. She owed a substantial amount of money to Halifax, 
and, despite having told the bank in 2008 that she had an ISA and a pension to repay the 
mortgage, by 2016 those were either no longer available or Mrs G didnt want to use them as 
her repayment vehicle. (I dont know which of those is correct, but nothing turns on this.) I 
can understand why Mrs G felt she was being harassed by the bank, but in all the 
circumstances, taking into account the length of time the debt had been due to the bank, Im 
not persuaded Halifax did anything wrong. Im also satisfied the interest applied to the 
account was correct, and I find that Halifax wasnt required to offer Mrs G a new mortgage 
interest rate.
My final decision
I know Mrs G will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman