DRN-3860309
The complaint
Ms F complains about her insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). Her complaint is about how 
AXA have recorded costs relating to claims she made for accidental damage and for 
damage caused by an escape of water.
References to AXA include their agents who handle claims.
This decision only covers Ms Fs complaint about how AXA have recorded costs relating to 
the claims and other issues covered in their final responses to her complaints issued 
between February and May 2022. It doesnt cover earlier issues and complaints raised by 
Miss F, nor other issues about AXA that dont relate to the specific issues raised by Ms F, 
including those relating to data protection, which fall within the remit of the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO).
What happened
The details of what happened in this case are well known to both Miss F and to AXA. So, Ill 
only summarise them here. 
Ms F had a home insurance policy with AXA, under which she made claims for accidental 
damage and for water damage to her kitchen in 2019. The claims were accepted and repairs 
carried out. Miss F subsequently raised issues about the quality of the work carried out on 
the kitchen and AXA paid an additional cash settlement and compensation.
In January 2022, Miss F was obtaining quotes for a new policy and was told the information 
shed provided on the value of previous claims differed significantly to that recorded on the 
Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. Miss F was told the costs included the 
additional cash settlement, as well as the compensation. Miss F was concerned the CUE 
information was incorrect (higher) and would have affected the renewal premiums shed 
been quoted since the claims shed made. She was also unhappy at how AXA had 
responded to her concerns, considering it to be poor service. 
Separately, Ms F raised a complaint about the additional cash settlement (£530) previously 
issued by AXA to rectify issues with the quality of the work. Because of her personal 
circumstances, she hadnt been able to have the rectification work carried out as planned. 
And since the time of the original settlement, Ms F had been provided with a new estimate 
higher (£870) than the original settlement.
AXA considered her complaints and issued several final responses. In their first response, in 
February 2022, AXA upheld Ms Fs complaint. They accepted the additional cash settlement 
and compensation payments shouldnt have been included in the record of costs for the 
claim in CUE. They said they would remove the costs from CUE. AXA also accepted they 
hadnt responded to emails from Ms F. They apologised and awarded compensation of £75 
each in respect of the two separate complaints theyd registered (making a total of £150).
Regarding the complaint about the additional cost of the further estimate for rectification 
work, AXA issued a separate final response in which they upheld the complaint. They said 
theyd consider the increase in cost and their claims team had been in contact with Ms F and 
asked her to send them the invoice for the work. There were subsequent issues with 
progressing the additional settlement, for which AXA awarded a further £50 compensation.
Ms F then made a further complaint to AXA in March 2022 about their recording of claim 
costs, as well as other issues about AXAs conduct of business. AXA responded to Ms Fs 
complaint in a further final response (March 2022) in which they partially upheld the 
complaint. They agreed to remove the additional cash settlement (£340) and compensation 
payment (£50) from the CUE. AXA acknowledged occasions where they hadnt provided the 
standard of service expected. In recognition of this they awarded £100 in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.  AXA also issued a further final response in March 2022, in 
which they increased the £50 compensation previously awarded by a further £200. 
Ms F subsequently raised a further complaint, which AXA responded to in a final response in 
May 2022. In the final response they provided an extract from the CUE database which they 
said showed the removal of the various costs theyd previously agreed to remove.
Ms F then complained to this service. She was unhappy at what she considered to be 
failings in AXAs service since 2019, brought to her notice when comparing renewal quotes 
from different insurers in January 2022. She was also unhappy at the information AXA had 
disclosed to her, firstly in respect of the scope of works carried out in respect of her claim for 
damage caused by the escape of water, and secondly the costs AXA had disclosed about 
her claims on the CUE database.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought AXA had provided a reasonable 
explanation about why they couldnt disclose the scope of work. She also noted AXA had 
removed the additional costs from the CUE database and paid Ms F compensation for 
various shortcomings in the standard of service provided. She thought both reasonable.
Ms F disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, she raised several issues. First, several concerns and issues 
shed raised hadnt been addressed. Second, her contractor was no longer able to carry out 
the rectification work for which theyd provided an estimate to carry out the work (and which 
AXA had agreed a revised cash settlement). Thirdly, she raised issues that potentially 
affected other customers of AXA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to assure Ms F that Ive considered all the evidence, information and 
representations shes made in bringing her complaint to this service. In doing so, Ive 
concentrated on those relevant to the scope of the complaint outlined above and on those 
issues that fall within the remit of this service. In making her complaint, Ms F has also said 
she considers AXA has acted unlawfully in several respects. However, this service cant 
make a finding on whether an act or omission is unlawful, only a court can do this. My role 
here is to decide whether AXA have acted fairly towards Ms F.
Coming back to the specific issues in Ms Fs complaint that I think are relevant, Ive first 
considered the question of the costs recorded by AXA on the CUE database. Ms F says 
AXA wrongly included costs associated with the cost of additional work needed to rectify 
earlier work not carried out to an appropriate standard, as well as compensation payments 
AXA had made in response to complaints shed made to them. AXA say theyve removed 
those costs from the CUE database (as a goodwill gesture). Having considered both views 
and the evidence and information available, Ive concluded AXA have acted reasonably. Ive seen the evidence from the CUE database provided by AXA and I can see those additional 
costs and compensation payments have been removed. Those costs that remain are 
appropriate to the claims to which they relate. 
The second issue relates to AXA declining to release the exact scope of works for the repair 
work carried out in response to Ms Fs claim for damage to her kitchen caused by the 
escape of water. AXA say they are unable to do this, citing commercial confidentiality. 
Having considered this, I think thats reasonable. So, I wont be asking AXA to do any more.
Ive also considered Ms Fs more general issue about what she considers to be AXAs 
service failings since 2019. In doing so, Ive considered carefully what Ms F has said, 
together with AXAs responses (including their final responses). Ive also considered the 
detailed email and other exchanges Ms F has had with AXA. Complaints handling itself isnt 
a regulated activity that falls within the remit of this service, but in considering Ms Fs 
complaint I have looked at those aspects that relate to the financial service provided by AXA 
that is a regulated activity. Ive noted AXA have responded to Ms Fs complaints within the 
eight-week period that businesses are required to respond. Ive also considered the various 
amounts of compensation AXA have awarded as part of their response to those complaints. 
Considering the specific circumstances of each case, I think those amounts are fair and 
reasonable. So, I wont be asking AXA to do anything further.
Ive then considered the points raised by Ms F when disagreeing with our investigators view. 
First, that several issues and concerns havent been addressed. Ive thought about this 
carefully, but Ive concluded all the issues relevant to the specific complaint made by Ms F 
have been considered (as Ive set out above about the scope of this decision).
Second, that Ms Fs contractor is no longer able to carry out the rectification work for which 
theyd provided an estimate (and which AXA had agreed a revised cash settlement). Having 
agreed to increase their cash settlement to match the revised estimate provided by her 
contractor, I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably. If theres now an issue about the ability 
of the contractor to carry out the work, then thats a separate issue for AXA to consider. It 
isnt an issue to be considered in this decision.
Thirdly, Ms F raised several issues that potentially affected other customers of AXA. Having 
looked at the issues raised, as they are more general in nature then they dont relate 
specifically to the circumstances of Ms Fs complaint to this service (which Ive set out and 
considered above). And my role here is to consider whether AXA have acted fairly towards 
Ms F  it isnt to consider the operational systems and procedures of AXA as a business. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Ms Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman