DRN-1944459
The complaint and what happened
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt done enough to protect him from fraudsters, 
as he been targeted several times over several years. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In August 2019, Mr C was contacted by someone pretending to be from HMRC. 
Under threat of legal proceedings and action, Mr C made a payment of £498. 
Following that, Mr C realised he had been scammed and notified the bank. 
Initially HSBC refunded 50% of Mr Cs loss as it believed both it and he had 
contributed to the loss. Mr C complained about that, and as a gesture it agreed to 
make a full refund. 
Mr C complained further that he had been subjected to fraud on a number of 
occasions, including times when he had been without a bank card to use. Although it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong, it offered Mr C £200 for the inconvenience of 
sometimes being without a card. 
Our investigator didnt think the bank had done anything wrong. She was satisfied 
that all matters had been fully investigated when referred to it and refunds made 
where appropriate. And she was satisfied there was insufficient evidence to suggest 
any compromise in Mr Cs details had happened through HSBC. 
Mr C has asked for an ombudsmans decision as he is unhappy that fraudulent 
transactions have taken place on his account despite it being aware of his 
circumstances. The situation has aggravated existing medical conditions and it isnt 
right that a large banks systems have repeatedly been breached for the purpose of 
fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Mr C reports being advised to cancel several cards as his details have been 
compromised. But HSBC doesnt have any record of this, although it does have 
record of three cards being cancelled in 2017, however, these were due to the cards 
being lost or stolen. And it says that there was no fraudulent activity that took place 
or reported at the time. Mr C hasnt disputed that. 
I accept there is a possibility that someone purporting to be Mr C called HSBC to 
request replacement cards and intercepted them. I say this due to Mr C alleging that 
an ex-partner had access to his security information, as he documented this on a 
computer which they had access to. So it seems to me that if Mr Cs details were 
compromised by a known third-party, then it was likely due to him keeping a record of 
his security information, rather than any wrong doing by the bank. But it nevertheless 
remains that it doesnt appear any fraudulent activity actually took place.
I understand Mr C reported a potential scam in 2018 when he sent a large sum of 
money to a solicitor, but a charge was never removed from his property. HSBC 
looked into that but concluded it was a civil matter  that is, not fraud. Mr C hasnt 
provided evidence to the contrary. 
Records do show fraud attempts in 2019, and all occasions Mr C was fully refunded.    
It appears someone was able to make payments from his account. And there was 
another fraud where someone impersonated HSBC. Im afraid if someone knows all 
of a customers details including security information, it is often difficult for a bank to 
realise payment instructions might not be coming from its genuine customer, 
particularly if the payments are unremarkable compared with other transactions on 
an account. And as Mr C has admitted that his security information has been 
compromised previously its hard to find the bank did anything wrong. 
And many people fall for impersonation scams, whether thats impersonating a bank 
or some other organisation. These are well known but very sophisticated scams 
which may involve number spoofing, or the caller knowing enough information to 
reassure the victim they are who they say they are, or are put in a position of fear, 
either of losing money or of adverse consequences if payments arent made. 
Fraudsters are adept at social engineering a victim into believing a situation is as 
described. And whilst banks do know of these scams and are alert to them, with the 
best will, it simply isnt possible for it to stop or scrutinise every single payment nor is 
it reasonable for it to do so; it does have an obligation to carry out its customers 
payment requests.  And Im mindful a customer also has a duty to keep their money 
safe too.  
Although Mr C has argued that HSBCs systems have been compromised and that is 
why he is falling victim to fraud, he hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that is 
what happened. Fraudsters use many different methods to obtain information about 
potential victims, but I havent seen any persuasive evidence that came from HSBC. I 
can see it has provided Mr C with information about what to look out for and how to 
protect himself, so Im satisfied it has tried to help prevent Mr C falling victim to any 
further scams. 
HSBC has offered Mr C £200 for the inconvenience of being without bank cards. 
Overall, Im satisfied that is a fair reflection of the inconvenience that would cause 
and so I wont be asking HSBC to increase that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has already fairly 
resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mr C £200 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman