DRN-1680588
The complaint
Mrs B complains Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, is unfairly holding her liable for a 
credit card debt.  She says the debt belongs to her ex-husband who opened the account in 
her name without her knowing.
Halifax says there is no evidence to suggest the account was opened fraudulently and is 
holding Mrs B liable.
Mrs B is helped in her complaint by Mr B  but for ease, I will refer to all submissions as if 
made by Mrs B.
  
What happened
In March 2006, a credit card account was opened in the name of Mrs B.  The account was 
opened in branch and there was regular spending on the account until 2012 when it was 
defaulted.
Halifax says it sent monthly statements to Mrs Bs address at the time.  In its initial 
submissions to this service It also said regular payments were made to the credit card from 
the joint current account which Mrs B held with her ex-husband and on one occasion a 
payment of over £2000 was received to pay off the balance in full.  Halifax also relies on the 
type of spending in its submission where it says it is holding Mrs B liable.
In 2014, Halifax sold the debt on to a third-party debt management company who 
subsequently managed to obtain a judgement in default against Mrs B for the debt owed.
But Mrs B says she had never applied for this credit card.  She says she left the former 
matrimonial home in 2013 and the first she knew about the debt was in August 2019 when 
debt collectors arrived at her new address seeking recovery.  She thinks her husband most 
likely intercepted the statements every month.
Mrs B said she had written to Halifax to let them know of her change of address and 
provided this service with a letter dated February 2014 where Halifax acknowledged the 
change.  She says Halifax failed to send any letters regarding the credit card to her new 
address.  If it had, she would have responded sooner.
When Halifax rejected Mrs B complaint, she came to this service and asked that we look into 
matters for her.
Our investigator thought Barclays could have done more.  She (the investigator) thought it 
was likely Mrs B hadnt known about the account and so asked that Halifax inform the debt 
recovery company that it was no longer to pursue Mrs B, to clear the account from her credit 
file and pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
Halifax did not agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says her relationship with her ex-husband was a difficult one and I have no reason to 
doubt that.  In most recent submissions, she told this service that he was controlling 
financially, he would open her mail and dealt with all the finances.
Her evidence is that she knew nothing about this account.
Halifax told us payments were made to the credit card account from the joint current account 
until February 2011.  But when we asked for evidence to support this submission, we were 
told more recently that this was not what it was saying.  In recent submissions it simply said 
payments were being made to the account  but not from the joint account.  In evidence, it 
sent us a screen shot of one manual payment with no other evidence as to where it came 
from.
And its right that despite updating Mrs Bs address in 2014, it sent no further 
correspondence about the account to her.  Halifax said this was because the account had 
already defaulted by then.  But by not updating the third-party debt recovery company, it 
meant Mrs B did not become aware of the debt until a county court judgement had been 
entered against her.  And I remind myself that Mrs B was a customer of Halifax throughout 
this time.
Halifax further submits that the spend on the credit card suggests Mrs B was using it or at 
least was benefitting from its use.  It also asks me to consider how similar the spending 
across the two accounts was.
I cant be certain Mrs B didnt benefit from the spending on the account  but I dont need to 
be certain.  I must be satisfied on balance that she did not - and I am so satisfied.
Finally, I am told this account was opened in a branch and that the signature on the account 
is very similar to Mrs Bs.  I have seen no evidence to suggest the account was in fact 
opened in branch and the application form is faded so I cant make any comparison against 
Mrs Bs signature.
In the circumstances and taking into account the evidence provided by both parties, I think 
its more likely than not that Mrs B did not know about this credit card account and so it 
follows, she knew nothing about the spending and Halifax cannot fairly hold her liable.
Putting things right
 Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, must:
- no longer purse Mrs B for this debt  including instructing their third-party debt 
recovery agents that they must no longer pursue Mrs B
- clear any trace of this debt from Mrs Bs credit file
- pay Mrs B £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused in bringing this complaint 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman