DRN-4305496
The complaint
Mr B says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the CCA) in relation to a timeshare product he purchased in September 2010.
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Bs to make because they stem 
from a credit agreement in his name only. However, as they relate to purchases made by 
him and his wife (Mrs B), I may refer to Mr and Mrs B at times throughout this decision.   
What happened
In or around October 2009, Mr and Mrs B chose to upgrade their trial membership and 
purchase full membership in a timeshare product with C.
In or around September 2010, Mr and Mrs B visited one of Cs resorts as part of a 
Promotional Prelude Holiday provided by C. A condition of the promotion required them to 
attend a meeting with Cs sales team during their visit. Having attended that meeting, Mr and 
Mrs B agreed to upgrade their membership status again. 
The cost of the upgrade purchased was £25,543. And after a trade in allowance of £21,143 
against their existing membership, there was a remaining balance to pay of £4,400. This was 
funded under a Fixed-Sum Loan Agreement provided by BPF. The total loan was for 
£17,003 and included consolidation of an existing loan they had with BPF. 
Towards the end of September 2015, Mr B contacted BPF to explain problems theyd had 
with advance bookings through C. He said thered been ongoing issues over three years 
which C had either ignored or failed to resolve. In particular, he said theyd been told their 
membership entitled them to make bookings two years in advance. But they werent able to 
do that. 
BPF raised a claim, on Mr Bs behalf, under section 75 of the CCA (S75). They looked into 
Mr Bs concerns and contacted C as part of their investigation. Having completed that, BPF 
didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They issued their response in writing and explained that all 
membership bookings were subject to availability. They didnt agree that this aspect of Mr 
Bs membership had been misrepresented to him.
But Mr B didnt receive BPFs written response to his complaint, despite contacting them 
again on three occasions. So, Mr B decided to refer his complaint to this service. In doing so, 
Mr B provided further details of his claims and concerns. In particular, he said:
he thought the loan term was seven years but has since discovered its actually 15 
years;
they were told they could book two years in advance but found they couldnt;
C dont appear to own half of the resorts available;
they were told membership was exclusive;
C badgered them with attempts to upsell;
C werent aware they cant take deposits from them, but presented this as buying 
promotional points; and
C hadnt explained everything to them at the time of the sale.
One of this services investigators looked into the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. In 
doing so, they didnt think there was evidence C had misrepresented the product purchased 
to Mr D. Our investigator also considered whether an unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
existed under section 140A of the CCA (S140A). But given all the circumstances, didnt 
think that was the case.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. He insisted theyd been mis-sold the 
product and still hadnt been provided with a copy of the contract.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Bs complaint was passed to me to 
consider and reach a final decision. Having done so, I issued a provisional decision on 19 
July 2023 giving Mr B and BPF the opportunity to consider my findings and provide any 
further comment or evidence they feel might be relevant before I issue my final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr B 
paid for the timeshare product under a regulated agreement with BPF, so it isnt in 
dispute that S75 applies here. This means Mr B is afforded the protection offered to 
borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into 
account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr B and BPF arising out of 
the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And because the 
product was funded under the credit agreement, they are deemed to be related 
agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But 
as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and 
reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr Bs complaint, relevant law also includes the Limitation Act 
1980 (the LA). This sets out time limits within which legal claims can be made. 
Claims under S75 and 140A are legal claims. Only a court is able to make a ruling 
under the LA. But as its relevant law, and because the original transaction - the 
purchase funded by a loan with BPF - took place around September 2010, I need to 
consider how the provisions of the LA may impact any claim.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe BPFs treatment of Mr Bs 
claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available, rather 
than deciding the claim. This service isnt able to make legal findings. As Ive already 
said, thats the role of the courts. While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally 
binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal service. Where Mr B 
doesnt accept my findings, this doesnt prejudice his right to pursue his claim in other 
ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened based upon the 
evidence thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. 
1 The Dispute Resolution Sourcebook from the FCAs Handbook of Rules and GuidanceThe claim for misrepresentation
A section 75 claim for misrepresentation is an action [that is a court action] to 
recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the 
limitation period under that provision is six years from the date on which the cause of 
action accrued. So here, Mr B had to make a claim within six years of when he 
entered into the purchase contract and credit agreement. He confirms this took place 
in September 2010. So, that is when he says he lost out having relied upon the 
alleged false statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentation relating to the two-year booking benefit were 
submitted to BPF in 2015. And as this was less than six years after the purchase, the 
claim appears to have been made in time. So, Ive considered whether BPFs 
findings and outcome were fair and reasonable.
But the subsequent claims werent raised until Mr B referred his complaint to this 
service. This means BPF hadnt previously been asked or given opportunity to 
consider these. BPF have confirmed that to be the case. And as the additional points 
were first raised more than six years after the purchase was completed; I believe a 
court is likely to find that these elements of his claim falls outside the time limit 
permitted in the LA. So, I dont think I can consider these in relation to BPFs original 
response to Mr Bs S75 claim. But, as Ill explain later, I do think they could be 
considered under a separate provision within the CCA.
Mr Bs original complaint to BPF in September 2015 was based upon an allegation 
that C had told them they could book holidays and accommodation two years in 
advance. But when Mrs B had attempted to do that in 2012, she discovered that 
wasnt the case. 
Ive seen various documents from the time of the sale. In particular, the acquisition 
agreement and the Members declaration. These appear to have been signed by Mr 
and Mrs B. And in the case of the declaration, the various numbered points have also 
been individually initialled by them.
Having considered these documents, I cant find any reference to any guarantee, or 
otherwise, that Mr and Mrs B would be able to make bookings two years in advance. 
However, I have seen and am familiar with the underlying terms and conditions that 
relate to membership types like the one purchased by Mr and Mrs B. While their 
membership level may well allow bookings to be made up to two years in advance, 
the conditions are very clear that all bookings are subject to availability. And it 
appears C made this clear to Mrs B when she contacted them in 2012 and thereafter. 
In other words  if theres availability, bookings can be made up to two years in 
advance.
I realise this is different to Mr and Mrs Bs own interpretation. But based upon the 
evidence available from the time, I cant reasonably conclude that C misrepresented 
this product feature in the way Mr B alleges.
The claim under S140A
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is 
also governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a 
claim is also six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, 
the High Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be 
determined by having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially 
relevant matters up to the time of making the determination. In that case, that was 
the date of the trial or otherwise the date the relationship ended.So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. In 
simple terms, any relationship between Mr B and BPF continues while the finance 
agreement remains live. So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends 
and the borrowing under it has been repaid. And as it appears Mr Bs loan was still 
live at the time of his original complaint and his subsequent referral to this service; I 
believe any claim under S140A is likely to have been made in time under the 
provisions of the LA.
Under S140A, in determining if the relationship is unfair, the courts must have regard 
for anything done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor [BPF]. So, I think the 
subsequently alleged misrepresentations were, therefore, relevant here. Even though 
I dont think the additional claims Mr B raised, when referring his complaint to this 
service, can be considered under S75 due to limitation.
That being said, I havent found any evidence from the time of the sale that supports 
the various allegation made. In particular:
I think the various documentation and associated terms and conditions make 
it clear that not all resorts and accommodation available are exclusively 
owned by C, and they may be owned and operated by other providers and/or 
affiliates. 
there appears to be no specific definition of what is meant by exclusive. So, 
I cant reasonably say that Mr Bs own interpretation that accommodation 
would only be available to members of Cs products was based upon anything 
said by C.
The term of the loan
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement` Mr B signed in September 2010. It clearly 
states, you will pay to us 180 monthly Repayments of £254.50. So, I dont agree the 
loan repayment term had been represented as seven years. And even if it was found 
that C had said that  and I make no such finding - Mr Bs right to withdraw from the 
loan agreement within 14 days, without giving any reason, is clearly detailed in the 
agreement. But theres no evidence that Mr B questioned the term of the loan or tried 
to exercise his right to withdraw.
Time to consider and understand the purchase agreement
Other aspects of Mr Bs claim could also be considered under S140A based upon 
whether these may have contributed to creating an unfair relationship between him 
and BPF. Mr B says C didnt explain everything to them at the time of the sale. But in 
the members Declaration, which Mr and Mrs B signed and initialled, it confirms they:
received a copy of our Agreement together with the notices required under 
the Timeshare Act 1992 (as amended) and a Disclosure Statement (July 
2010);
understand clearly what we have purchased []; and
read and fully understand all of the above.
Furthermore, I believe the purchase application and agreement was also subject to 
the regulatory 14-day cooling off period. So, even if I were to find that Mr and Mrs B 
werent given adequate opportunity to read and consider the purchase 
documentation at the time of the sale, or they werent fully explained - and I make no 
such finding - I would expect them to have had sufficient time in which to consider 
their decision within the subsequent 14 days based upon that documentation. And, 
where appropriate, raise any questions or concerns before the loan was drawn and the purchase completed. Theres no suggestion or evidence that they did raise any 
questions or concerns prior to the sale being completed. Or that they demonstrated 
any intention of cancelling the purchase agreement.
Sales Pressure
Mr B alleges that C regularly badgered him in an attempt to upsell products.
I acknowledge what Mr B says and how this might have felt like a pressured sale. 
However, against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly 
understood, I find it hard to argue that Mr B agreed to the purchase when he simply 
didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that he went on to say 
something to C, after the purchase, to suggest hed agreed to it when he didnt want 
to. And he hasnt provided a credible explanation for why he didnt subsequently seek 
to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period permitted. So, if he only 
agreed to the purchase because he was pressured, I find this aspect difficult to 
reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything substantive to 
suggest Mr B was obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  And because of 
that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr B made the 
decision to proceed because his ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have 
been  significantly impaired.
Acceptance of deposits
Mr B suggests that C doesnt know that they cant take deposits. The regulations 
that apply require that no upfront payment is received by C until expiry of the cooling 
off period. Mr Bs claim here specifically relates to the purchase in September 2010. 
The application was completed on 14 September 2010. Mr Bs loan account 
statements show that the loan wasnt drawn until 28 September 2010  after expiry of 
the 14-day cooling off period. On that basis, it doesnt appear any payment was 
made to or received by C, contrary to the regulations that applied.
Summary 
I realise Mr B will be disappointed. Particularly as its clear hes now very unhappy 
with the product he purchased. But, based upon my findings above, I cant say that 
BPFs response to his claim was ultimately unfair or unreasonable. And because of 
that, I dont currently intend to ask them to do anything more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having issued my provisional decision, BPF responded confirming they had nothing further 
to add. Despite follow up communication from this service, Mr B didnt respond to my 
provisional decision. 
With no further information for me to consider here, Ive no reason to vary from my original 
findings. So, my final decision will remain unchanged. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman