DRN-2810997
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (Santander), at the time trading as National & 
Provincial, has refused to refund them commission in relation to the sale of payment 
protection insurance (PPI) that was sold to them in December 1991 to go with a 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B are concerned about the high rates of commission that Santander may have 
potentially charged in relation to their PPI. 
Santander says their mortgage ended in May 1993 when it was redeemed, so no refund of 
commission is payable. 
Mr and Mrs B say their mortgage was transferred when they moved to a new property and 
took out further borrowing. 
Our adjudicator agreed that the dates corresponding to start and end of Mr and Mrs Bs 1991 
mortgage were outside the time-frames for considering commission. 
As Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our adjudicators view, their complaint has come to me.
To be clear, this final decision is about commission only. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI and commission 
on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The Financial Conduct Authority has issued guidelines about PPI sales where a business 
expected to get a high level of commission and profit share. Businesses can be asked to pay 
back any commission and profit share they got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, 
as well as any interest that may have been paid because of that.
But Ive decided this is not a complaint where Im able to look into commission. 
Ill explain why. 
 
In general terms, the rules about commission relate to cases where the 
consumer:
took out lending the PPI was sold with on or after 6 April 2007; or
took out lending the PPI was sold with before 6 April 2007, and the lending 
was still running on or after 6 April 2008.
Ive seen evidence from Santanders own system records that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
was taken out in December 1991 and closed in May 1993 when it was redeemed. That 
means the relevant lending for the purposes of a commission complaint  ended in May 
1993. 
Having also noted that the mortgage account with which their PPI was sold was no longer 
running on or after 6 April 2008, it follows that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage isnt affected by 
the guidelines Ive set out above. So Santander doesnt have to consider paying them any 
money in respect of the commission it got.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B on this occasion but Id like to reassure them that in 
reaching my finding Ive taken into account all the evidence and information theyve 
provided to our adjudicator.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, there isnt a commission complaint to uphold 
and so I dont require Santander UK Plc to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman