DRN-4061965
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Tandem Bank Limited placed restrictions on his account, which Mr C
believes were unlawful.
What happened
Mr C was asked by Tandem to provide evidence to confirm that funds received into his
account came from the sale of a property as hed declared. Mr C provided sufficient source-
of-funds evidence to Tandem that same day, but this information wasnt forwarded by
Tandems staff to the correct department. This meant that Tandem believed Mr C hadnt in
fact provided the evidence theyd requested, which eventually resulted in Tandem restricting
Mr Cs account. Mr C wasnt happy about this and felt that Tandem had acted unlawfully in
restricting his account as they had. So, he raised a complaint.
Tandem looked at Mr Cs complaint. They accepted that an error by their staff in not
forwarding the evidence Mr C had provided had led to them restricting Mr Cs account when
they shouldnt have. Tandem apologised to Mr C for this and made a payment of £150 to
him as compensation for any trouble or upset he may have incurred. Tandem later paid a
further £40.23 to Mr C for potential loss of interest Mr C may have incurred through not being
able to access his funds and move them to another financial services provider. Mr C wasnt
satisfied with Tandems response and continued to feel that Tandems actions were
unlawful. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Tandems acceptance of
their error and explanation as to why it had occurred were reasonable, but they felt that
Tandem should pay a further £150 to Mr C for the trouble and inconvenience that this matter
had caused. Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 March 2023 as follows:
I note that Mr Cs complaint here appears to centre on his belief that Tandem have 
acted unlawfully by restricting his account as they did.
Accordingly, I feel its important to begin by confirming that this service isnt a 
regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it 
isnt within my remit here to declare that Tandem have acted in a non-regulatory or 
an unlaw way. Such declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to 
potentially make.
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we 
do take relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our 
remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has 
occurred  from an impartial perspective and taking all the circumstances and factors 
of a complaint into consideration.
This means that the question that guides my review here isnt whether Tandem have 
acted unlawfully by restricting Mr Cs account  which as explained, is a question 
which sits outside my remit to consider  but rather whether I feel it was fair for 
Tandem to have restricted Mr Cs account as they did.
Tandem have explained that the reason they restricted Mr Ts account was because 
the source-of-funds evidence that Mr T had provided hadnt been forwarded to their 
correct department, which meant that they effectively believed that Mr T hadnt 
provided the source-of-funds evidence requested from him. Consequently, Tandem 
felt that, in the absence of this requested information, its regulatory obligations meant 
that the restricting of Mr Cs account until that information was provided to them was 
appropriate.
As explained, it isnt within my remit here to say whether Tandems interpretation of 
its regulatory obligations here was correct. But from a fairness perspective, given that 
Tandem believed it hadnt received the source-of-funds information from Mr C, it 
does seem reasonable to me that Tandem would then take the step to restrict Mr Cs 
account as it did. And it must be noted that Tandem took this step only after 
unsuccessfully attempting to contact Mr C to chase the source-of-funds information 
on several occasions.
However, while Im satisfied that Tandem acted with a fair rationale when restricting 
Mr Cs account, the fact remains that Mr C had already supplied the source-of-funds 
information to them as requested, and that a staff error meant this information wasnt 
forwarded to the correct department as it should have been. Tandem dont dispute 
this, and theyve apologised to Mr C for it.
Mr C is also unhappy that Tandem didnt respond to a series of emails he sent to 
Tandem between 10 and 24 February 2022. Tandem accept that these emails were 
received and not responded to, and again theyve apologised to Mr C for this.
In their response to Mr Cs complaint, having acknowledged and apologised for their 
errors, Tandem arranged to make a payment of £150 to Mr C as compensation for 
any upset and inconvenience these matters may have caused. Tandem also paid Mr 
C a further £40.23 to cover any loss of interest Mr C may have incurred through his 
not being able to move the funds in his Tandem account during the time the account 
was restricted.
These compensation amounts seem fair to me, given what happened here and the 
impact of these events on Mr C, and I can confirm that these amounts are 
commensurate with what I may have instructed Tandem to pay, had they not already 
done so. I also note that Mr C has confirmed himself to this service that he considers 
the trouble and upset aspect of his complaint to have been resolved by Tandems 
response to his complaint.
All of which means that I feel that the response to Mr Cs complaint issued by 
Tandem, including the apologies and the payments referred to above, already 
represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what happened here  as considered 
within the remit of this service.
And given that, as explained above, the issue of whether Tandem acted unlawfully inrestricting Mr Cs account isnt one which sits within my remit to consider, it follows 
that my provisional decision here will be that I wont be instructing Tandem to take 
any further action, which in turn means that I wont be upholding this complaint.
Both Mr C and Tandem responded to my provisional decision and neither party raised any 
objections to it. 
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision here on the same non-uphold basis as 
Ive described above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman