DRN-3218193
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the way esure Insurance Limited dealt with a fire claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs S made a claim to esure after smoke from a fire in a neighbouring 
property badly damaged their home. Esure accepted the claim and appointed a loss 
adjuster to manage it. The same firm of loss adjusters was handling the fire claim for the 
neighbouring property.
After the first night esure arranged bed and breakfast accommodation for Mr and Mrs S and 
their family.
In August esures contractor started to strip out the loft, including the smoke-damaged 
insulation. Mr and Mrs S say the workmen arrived with no tools or materials. They say their 
electrical wiring and burglar alarm was damaged in the process. Esure paid for them to be 
repaired.
In September Mr and Mrs S complained to esure about the loss adjuster. They thought 
there was a conflict of interest because of its work on the neighbouring property. Esure 
appointed a different loss adjuster to take over management of their claim.
Esure also arranged for the flooring to be removed and for the property to be chemically 
cleaned.
In mid-August Mr and Mrs S and their family moved back home even though they had no 
flooring downstairs, no stair carpet and no insulation in the loft. They said that was because 
the bed and breakfast accommodation wasnt suitable for their family.
New flooring was laid in the living room and hallway in December. The loft insulation and 
flooring was replaced in February 2019. The loft still smelt of smoke, so it was cleaned 
again. As this wasnt successful, esure appointed a restoration company. That company 
noticed that the original contractor hadnt removed all the original flooring and insulation as it 
was supposed to have done. Also new insulation had been placed on sooty timbers and had 
become contaminated as a result.
Despite more chemical cleaning, the loft still smelt of smoke. In April the family had to move 
out for 24 hours while further deep cleaning took place but that didnt work either.
In May esure decided to remove the bottom four rows of roof tiles, replace the sarking 
boards and install some vent tiles when retiling the roof. When Mr and Mrs S complained 
that the work hadnt been done properly, esure agreed that it would have to be redone. But 
it said Mr and Mrs S would have to arrange for their own contractor to complete the 
remainder of the repair works.
By January 2020 Mr and Mrs Ss contractor had carried out the works. But they are in 
dispute with their contractor about a number of outstanding issues.
Mr and Mrs S complained to esure about the way their claim had been handled. 
Esure accepted that its service should have been better and offered Mr and Mrs S £750 
compensation. As Mr and Mrs S didnt think that was enough, they brought their complaint 
to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. An 
extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Mr and Mrs Ss policy gives esure the right to choose to pay the cost of the repairs or to 
arrange for the damage to be repaired. At first in this case esure chose to repair the 
damage using its own contractor. Both parties accept that the repairs werent successful.
Once an insurer has started repairs, this service considers that its entered into a repair 
contract with the policyholder  in essence, an agreement has been reached where the 
claim will be settled by the insurer repairing the damage. Thats important because if things 
go wrong  for example, the repairs are much more complicated or expensive than the 
insurer first thought  the insurer cant turn back the clock and seek to settle the claim on 
another basis, such as by cash settling it. Its effectively stuck with the choice it made to 
repair  however difficult that might be. I appreciate that esure said it only had one 
approved contractor. But I dont consider that adequate justification for abandoning the 
repairs.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think esure treated Mr and Mrs S fairly in deciding midway 
through the claim that they would have to finish the works using their own contractor. That 
meant they had no protection from esure if the works werent carried out satisfactorily or if 
there were any dispute about payment. I think the fairest outcome in this case is for esure 
to oversee the rectification repairs by appointing a contractor that hasnt previously worked 
on this property. And I think it should deal with any dispute in relation to the repair works 
carried out by Mr and Mrs Ss contractor on behalf of them.
Looking at other aspects of how the claim was handled, Im not persuaded that esures 
approach to repairing the damage was unreasonable even though those repairs turned 
out to be unsuccessful. Thats different from poor workmanship. I also think esure dealt 
with the original loss adjusters conflict of interest promptly. Although Mr and Mrs S 
werent happy with the way it dealt with their alternative accommodation, I can see this 
would have been difficult due to a major sporting event being held nearby.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of 
the regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of 
trouble attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how 
much compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has 
caused to its policyholder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see 
associated with a claim of this type.
All in all, I can see that poor workmanship and being left responsible for remedial works 
made this claim much more stressful for Mr and Mrs S than it needed to be. It has also 
meant that the works have dragged on for much longer than they should have done. They 
have had to spend a lot of time chasing esure and its suppliers about various aspects of 
the claim. Having taken all the circumstances into account I think compensation of £950 
would be fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs S by this.Esure accepted my provisional findings.
In summary Mr and Mrs S made the following points:
Its now almost three and a half years since the fire and their home still hasnt been 
properly restored;
They think esure should change the loss adjuster;
esure left them in the lurch by leaving them to sort out its failed repairs;
Family members, including a young child, have been diagnosed as suffering from 
stress as a result of the claim;
They dont feel £950 compensation is adequate for what they have been through as a 
result of failings on the part of esure;
They will have to move out of their house again for the remedial works;
As a result of the move they will have to take time off work to pack and unpack which 
will impact them financially; and
Theyre concerned that the total value of their claim will impact their future insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties are in agreement that esure should oversee the rectification repairs by 
appointing a new contractor and deal with any dispute between Mr and Mrs S and their 
contractor. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S think a new loss adjuster should be appointed. I think 
this is a sensible suggestion and request esure to consider this.
Ive thought carefully about the compensation for trouble and upset because esure did leave 
them in the lurch. The compensation we award isnt intended to punish the business - its a 
reflection of the impact suffered by Mr and Mrs S, on account of its failures, over and above 
that normally associated with a large claim. I acknowledge and sympathise with them for the 
distress and inconvenience they and their family have faced but I remain of the view that 
compensation of £950 is fair in all the circumstances.
With regard to another move into alternative accommodation I also request esure to make 
this as convenient as possible for Mr and Mrs S to minimise the disruption for them. At this 
stage I cant consider compensation for possible financial loss incurred in respect of a future 
move. So Mr and Mrs S will need to discuss this with esure at the appropriate time.
As a result of the failed repairs the claim cost is higher than it would have been if esure had 
carried out a successful repair in the first place. To ensure Mr and Mrs S arent 
disadvantaged by this, esure should give Mr and Mrs S a letter confirming what the claim 
cost would have been were it not for its errors. Mr and Mrs S can then show this letter to 
prospective insurers if they wish in future.
Save as mentioned above, my provisional findings remain unchanged and now form part of 
this final decision.
Putting things right
To put things right I think esure should:appoint an approved repairer to carry out urgent rectification repairs to Mr and Mrs 
Ss property;
deal with any dispute in relation to the repair works carried out by Mr and Mrs Ss 
contractor on behalf of Mr and Mrs S; 
pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £950 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
(less any sums already paid in respect of this); and
write to Mr and Mrs S confirming what the claim cost would have been were it not for 
its errors.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to do the things set out in the 
section above headed Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman