DRN-1398738
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MYJAR Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mrs M was given a single loan by MYJAR. She borrowed £175 in April 2018 and agreed to 
repay the loan in six monthly instalments. But Mrs M has been unable to repay the loan and 
a balance remains outstanding.
Mrs M's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didn't think 
MYJAR should have given the loan to Mrs M so he asked the lender to put things right. 
MYJAR accepted our adjudicator's assessment and offered to remove all the interest and 
charges from the outstanding balance. After taking account of the repayments Mrs M had 
already made on this loan that left an outstanding balance of £42. MYJAR also offered to 
remove any negative information about the loan from Mrs M's credit file.
Mrs M didn't accept the offer. She said that she would expect MYJAR to refund any charges, 
interest and fees along with 8% interest on the payments she had made, to write off any 
remaining balance, and to update her credit file to remove any adverse entries relating to 
this loan should this be required.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR has accepted our adjudicator's findings that it shouldn't have given this loan to 
Mrs M. So I don't need to consider that part of the complaint any further. What I need to 
decide here is what MYJAR should do to put things right.
It seems entirely reasonable to me that Mrs M should be expected to repay the principal 
amount that MYJAR lent to her. She has had the use of that money. But, since MYJAR has 
accepted that it shouldn't have given this loan to Mrs M I think it is entirely reasonable that 
she doesn't pay any interest or charges on her borrowing.
MYJAR lent Mrs M £175. Of that she has repaid £133. So I agree with MYJAR that she has 
not yet paid any interest or charges in relation to her borrowing. So I don't think there is 
anything that needs to be refunded, and so there is no refund that should have 8% interest 
added. And that leaves £42 of the original amount Mrs M borrowed to be repaid. I haven't 
seen anything to make me think it would be reasonable to ask MYJAR to write that amount 
off. So in summary, I think the offer MYJAR has made in relation to this complaint is fair and 
reasonable. That is what I think it should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
MYJAR has accepted that it shouldn't have agreed to lend to Mrs M on 6 April 2018. So 
MYJAR should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mrs M made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
as reworking Mrs M's loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then it 
is reasonable for MYJAR to expect Mrs M to repay that amount. I remind MYJAR that 
it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement with Mrs M
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to the loan
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put things 
right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman