DRN-3997753
The complaint
H, a limited company complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mistakenly closed it 
account, leading to returned payments, loss of reputation and inconvenience.
H is represented in its complaint by a director, Miss F.
What happened
H has a business bank account with HSBC. In 2021, HSBC wrote to H asking it to provide 
further information as part of a safeguarding review. HSBC didnt receive a reply so it sent a 
notice of closure. Although H went on to provide the information required, HSBC mistakenly 
asked for further information. And when HSBC couldnt contact H, it restricted its account 
before closing it towards the end of April 2022. 
Miss F contacted HSBC and it agreed to reverse the closure. This took longer than HSBC 
said it would, leading to professional embarrassment for Miss F.
While Hs bank account was closed, four direct debits went unpaid and several credits didnt 
reach the account. Although HSBC said that it set the direct debits back up, Miss F says the 
companies involved had cancelled them so she had to get them reinstated.  
HSBC paid H £150 for its customer service failure but Miss F didnt accept this. 
The investigator recommended that Hs complaint be upheld. She thought that HSBCs 
payment of £150 was a reasonable amount for HSBCs mistake and poor customer service. 
But the investigator thought this didnt take account of the impact the account closure had on 
H. 
The investigator thought HSBC should compensate H for the time taken to reinstate 
payments, missed payments and the time H was without access to its account. The 
investigator thought £300 was fair and HSBC agreed.
The investigator noted that although Miss F said H had received late payment fees and that 
this had affected her credit file, she didnt provide evidence of this. The investigator also said 
that although Miss F says H was declined credit, the investigator couldnt be sure this was 
because of the problem with Hs account.
Finally, Miss F raised concerns about HSBC sending a debit card to an unauthorised party 
and the difficulties she was having obtaining a new debit card for the account. 
Ms F is unhappy with the investigation outcome. She says it doesnt take account of the 
reputational damage to H, the time shes spent sorting the problem out and the emotional 
stress.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
Im sorry to hear about the distress Miss F has felt but as the investigator explained, H is a 
limited company and so its own legal entity. This means I cant consider the stress Miss F 
has felt personally. I can only consider the impact any mistakes by HSBC have had on H. I 
should also say that this service isnt a regulator, so my role isnt to punish HSBC for any 
failings or award compensation to act as a deterrent. 
HSBC accepts that the level of customer service it gave to H wasnt up to scratch. As there 
isnt any dispute that HSBC made a mistake, my decision focusses on whether £300 
compensation on top of the £150 already paid, adequately reflects the inconvenience this 
mistake had on H.
I can see that Miss F had to spend more time than she should have first trying to get the 
account closure reversed and then setting payments back up again. Miss F also spent time 
trying to establish how long it would take HSBC to re-open the account so she could let 
suppliers and clients know. 
Miss F wanted us to get a complete chat history from HSBC to help demonstrate how much 
of her time has been taken up dealing with everything. The investigator did ask HSBC but it 
says it can only see one chat which it has already given to this service. I dont doubt that 
Miss F spent time speaking to HSBC online, on the phone and in branch. But this service 
doesnt generally award compensation on an hourly or daily rate. Instead, I make my award 
based on the inconvenience and impact the mistake had on H as a limited company.
For these failings, I consider the investigators suggestion of £300 compensation is fair. It 
reflects the inconvenience caused to H when Miss F had to speak to HSBC and other parties 
over a few weeks  which I assume diverted time away from running the business of H. 
I think its reasonable to take HSBCs previous payment of £150 into account when deciding 
whether the investigators recommendation to pay an additional £300 compensation is fair. 
The combined figure of £450 is in the middle of an award this service might make where the 
business mistake has caused significant inconvenience and the impact has lasted over 
weeks or months. 
Miss F was understandably concerned about the negative impact the temporary account 
closure had on H. Although I agree that H has been inconvenienced, I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me that HSBCs mistakes had a lasting reputational impact on H. 
Miss F says that some of Hs clients had their services cut off because direct debit payments 
werent made. I appreciate this mustve been frustrating for Hs clients but I dont have 
evidence to suggest that H lost out as a result, for example because it had to pay additional 
charges to have the services reinstated. Its also not clear whether the issue with some 
direct debit payments not being properly reinstated lay with HSBC or the suppliers involved. 
Again, making it harder for me to decide that my award of compensation should be higher.
Miss F says that her credit rating may have been impacted because of missing a mortgage 
payment but hasnt given this service evidence of that. However, Im not sure it would make 
a difference to my decision because I can only consider the impact HSBCs mistake had on 
H, not Miss F as director. Miss F also says that H lost out on finance and had to take out lending on less favourable 
terms. Im sorry to hear this but I dont have enough evidence to reasonably conclude that 
the only or main reason why the lender declined Hs finance application was due to the 
temporary account closure or missed mortgage payment.
Miss F has had difficulty ordering a new debit card as the old one was cancelled when 
HSBC closed Hs account. HSBC says that Miss F will need to complete a new business 
mandate as the name requested on the card is different. If Miss F encounters further 
difficulties once shes completed the mandate, she can of course complain to HSBC.
On the point Miss F made about HSBC sending a debit card to a third party without her 
permission or request from the third party  the investigator has told Miss F that this would 
have to be a new complaint and I agree. I leave it with Miss F to decide whether to pursue 
this further with HSBC.
I appreciate my decision is likely to disappoint Miss F but for all the reasons Ive outlined 
above, I consider an award of £300 on top of the £150 already paid, is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
To put things right HSBC should pay H £300. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to pay H £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman