DRN-1854603
 
The complaint
Mr T and Ms T complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) when they arranged a mortgage in 2001.
What happened
In 2001, Mr T and Ms T approached HSBC to arrange a mortgage. Following a meeting, an 
advisor from HSBC sold them a PPI policy. The policy would help cover Mr T and Ms Ts 
mortgage payments for up to a year if Mr T was off work sick or lost his job.
Mr T and Ms T think the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr T and Ms T 
didnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr T and Ms Ts case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive first considered if Mr T and Ms T knew they had a choice to buy the policy. Mr T and 
Ms T say they were just presented with paperwork and figures that included PPI. So Ive 
thought abought this alongside the other information I have about the sale.
Based on what Ive seen, the purchase of this policy followed a meeting with an advisor from 
HSBC. It looks as though the advisor discussed a number of products, including life 
assurance, critical illness insurance and retirement planning  as well as the PPI. The policy 
just covered Mr T, which seems to reflect the fact that Ms T got sick pay and benefits 
through her employment  and he didnt.  However, given the time thats passed, the 
documentation held by HSBC is limited. This isnt unreasonable. The PPI was sold in 2001  
and apparently ended in 2006. HSBC didnt need to keep this information longer than it 
needed it. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that the PPI was discussed with Mr T and Ms T before 
HSBC sold it to them. I see they declined the offer of other products. And the policy appears 
to have been tailored to their circumstances. So while Mr T and Ms T say they werent given 
a choice, I cant conclude thats most likely based just on what they said. I think its more 
likely they agreed to buy it.
HSBC recommended the policy so it had to check the policy was suitable. Based on what 
hes told us about his circumstances the policy appears to have been right for Mr T. In 
particular, while Mrs T had some existing sick pay from her employer, Mr T said he didnt. 
And so HSBC recommended he buy the cover.. He doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Similarly, while I cant be sure that the information HSBC gave Mr T and Ms T was as clear 
as it should have been, I dont think better information would have out them off buying the 
policy. For the reasons Ive already explained, it looks like they wanted this cover. And I think 
the policy would have been useful to Mr T if hed needed it. The policy protected a mortgage: 
Mr T and Ms Ts house was at risk if they couldnt make the repayments. It also appears to 
have been affordable.
Ive considered the further points Mr T and Ms T have raised. But these dont change my 
conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman