DRN-3675869
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Quilter Investment Platform Limited (Quilter) has mis-managed 
her investments and they have performed badly. She is concerned fraudulent activity has 
taken place on her account. She doesnt have sufficient capital left to finance her retirement.
What happened
Mrs As adviser from a predecessor business opened her account with Quilter in 2014.     
Mrs A held a Collective Investment Account (CIA) and an ISA. 
Mrs A complained to Quilter. Its understanding of the complaint was that Mrs As CIA wasnt 
showing on her most recent statement, the account values had decreased, and money had 
been fraudulently taken. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said;
The main reason Mrs As CIA and ISA had decreased in value was because of 
regular and one-off withdrawals. 
Mrs A had also been paying for adviser frees and services charges. 
It detailed the amounts invested into both accounts and the withdrawals that had 
been made. 
The CIA had been closed in July 2021 which is why it wasnt showing on Mrs As 
latest statement. 
No fraudulent activities had taken place on the accounts. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
He couldnt find any evidence of fraudulent activity on the account. The account had 
decreased in value because of withdrawals made by Mrs A. 
Mrs A had invested £220,000 in the CIA and taken regular withdrawals for the 
majority of the time since the account has been opened plus one-off withdrawals. 
These totalled £237,874 which exceeded the amount invested.
Mrs A had invested  over the years  a total of £168,123.02 into her ISA account. 
Again, she made regular and one-off withdrawals. These totalled £202,194.84, so 
again Mrs A withdrew more than was invested.
During the time the investments were with Quilter Mrs A had paid adviser and 
platform fees which were part of the terms and conditions. 
There was nothing to suggest that any money was taken from her account other than 
the withdrawals/encashments made by Mrs A and which were transferred to her bank 
account. 
Mrs A didnt agree with the outcome and requested that her complaint be decided by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same outcome as in the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mrs A has been extremely worried about her investments and what happened to 
her funds. I am sorry to hear that Mrs A is in financial hardship.  
Both parties are aware of the cash additions and withdrawals made from both accounts. 
These were clearly given in Quilters letter in response to Mrs As complaint, so I dont need 
to list them all in detail again.
However, it is clear that withdrawals  both regular (for monthly income for Mrs A) and one- 
off transfers had an impact on the portfolios. 
Ive reviewed the movement of capital in the accounts. From the CIA transfers were made to 
the ISA account to fund Mrs As ISA each year. The CIA was encashed in July 2020 and ISA 
in December 2021. For both the CIA and ISA profits were made and the amount taken out of 
them exceeded the amounts put in. Mrs A made a profit on both accounts.  
The CIA
£220,000 was deposited into the account in 2014. Mrs A took regular monthly withdrawals 
from the CIA since January 2015 to provide her with an income. These started at £1,500 a 
month, reduced to £1,000 a month in 2017 and increased again to £1,200 a month in 2018. 
These totalled just over £84,000. 
After some one-off withdrawals from the account ranging from just over £2,000 to £20,000 
totalling just over £95,700 Mrs A encashed her CIA for £57,937.88 in July 2020 to fund a 
house purchase. The remainder needed for the house purchase was withdrawn from the ISA 
 just over £22,000 in July 2020.
The ISA
For the ISA account in 2014 there was a one-off deposit of £15,306.12 at the outset plus the 
sum of £42,936.90 was transferred in from another provider. Since then it looks like Mrs As 
ISA allowance was utilised each financial year with transfers from the CIA and surplus cash 
provided by Mrs A. After the CIA was closed, monthly income was taken from the ISA. 
These started at £1,200 in July 2020 and reduced to £700 per month from September 2020. 
The ISA account was encashed in December 2021 and £167,232.72 paid out to Mrs A. 
Mrs A doesnt agree with the amount invested into the CIA. She has said that in 2005 she 
paid in £250,000 but this isnt recorded. But Quilter has provided statements from the 
beginning of the CIA account in 2014 where I can see that £220,000 was added at the 
inception of the account. And I can see from a bank statement provided by Mrs A that her 
current bank account was debited by that amount on 6 November 2014. So, this amount 
tallies with Quilters records. And from what I have seen Mrs A didnt use Quilters platform 
services prior to 2014.
Like the investigator, I cant see any evidence of fraudulent activity. From the limited bank 
statements Mrs A has given us I have cross referenced amounts paid from Mrs As Quilter accounts to Mrs As bank account. And I can see those tie in with the amounts referred to in 
Quilters letter. 
I know Mrs A has been very concerned about the apparent loss in value and she has worried 
that fraudulent activity has taken place. But from my review of everything that has been 
provided, I cant agree that Mrs A has lost value in her investments. And there is nothing to 
suggest that fraudulent activity has taken place. I do hope that Mrs A is comforted by this.
Overall, taking everything into account I cant find that Quilter has done anything untoward or 
that Mrs As investments have lost value. Because of this, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint 
and I wont be asking Quilter to do anything more. 
I do appreciate that Mrs A feels very strongly about her complaint and I thank her for the 
effort she has made in bringing it to us. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I 
have reached the decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman