DRN-2213843
The complaint
Q, a business, complains that SumUp Payments Limited did not do enough to defend a 
chargeback of card payments and provided poor customer service.
What happened
Q had an agreement with SumUp to process its card payments. Q provided accommodation 
and in March 2019 accepted an online booking through a third-party agent. It processed 
three payments for that booking  two for Euros 1,000 and one for Euros 782. A further night 
was booked for those clients in April 2019 to be added just before the original booking 
period. The clients arrived as planned in June 2019. In August 2019 SumUp was notified of 
a chargeback request for all the payments in the original booking. It contacted Q and the 
business owner sent information to challenge the chargeback. In October 2019 SumUp told 
Q that it had received a second presentation of the chargeback. It did not defend this, and Q 
complains that it did not take account of further information provided. The owner says that Q 
has lost money and been charged back more than the amount of the initial payments. Q also 
complains that the chargeback specifically and its business generally has been affected by 
limits placed on its card payments. Q has been the victim of fraud and a scam and has been 
given misleading information by SumUp.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said we could only 
look here at what SumUp did and not the actions of the card issuer or of the relevant card 
scheme covering the chargeback. He also said that we are not the regulator and wouldnt be 
auditing what SumUp did.
He said that his initial understanding from SumUps final response was that a separate 
chargeback for Euros 500 related to these clients. But he clarified that this wasnt the case 
and that SumUp had earlier offered Q Euros 250 as a gesture of goodwill as that chargeback 
had not been successful.
Here he said that SumUp had shown it had provided information to defend these 
chargebacks. And that although this had initially been successful a second chargeback had 
been made. SumUp said that Q did not provide any new evidence relevant to the outcome 
and so no further action was taken. SumUp said it was charged when the outcome went 
against it and that the charges for defending a second chargeback were Euros 500 per 
transaction. 
SumUp had also said that Q had split the transaction which it warned against in the terms 
and conditions for the account. And that Q only had an invoice for the combined payments 
and not for each transaction which would have been expected. SumUp said that it had set 
limits for virtual transactions like this as a security measure. 
He noted that there seemed to be a wider dispute with the clients and that police had been 
involved. But he said that this wasnt something hed be commenting on. SumUp had told Q 
what it owed as a result of the chargebacks and he considered it had acted reasonably.
Q did not agree and made a number of detailed points. Ill summarise these here. It disputed 
that SumUp had acted correctly and said it had not forwarded it the relevant documents or 
defended the chargeback correctly. This was a non-refundable booking. We had relied on 
assurances without documentary proof. Q as a result of SumUps actions had lost a 
significant amount of money. It had limited its account. Q had shown that its clients had 
made the booking in a different name to that on the payment card and this was fraud from 
the start. The owner of Q had reported the clients to the police for their behaviour at the 
booked accommodation. They had not charged back the first nights stay which was 
inconsistent with SumUp saying that the chargeback was for goods not as described. The 
amount that SumUp said Q owed after the chargeback had not taken into account existing 
credits on the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and where there is a dispute Im 
considering what is most likely. We provide informal dispute resolution and are not a court  
or the regulator. I fully understand the strong feelings the owner of Q has about what 
happened and what was at stake for the business.
As has been set out SumUp does not make the decision about whether a chargeback is 
upheld or not. And in line with the terms and conditions Q is responsible for any charged 
back amounts.
A fundamental point I need to decide on here is whether had SumUp done anything more it 
was likely that the chargeback would still have been upheld the second time. I am going to 
come on to say more about the process itself. But I am going to explain now what I think 
about the outcome. The point here is that the clients of Q left the accommodation after the 
first night (which was the separate booking as I understand it). The owner of Q says that this 
was because of their behaviour in the property which was a breach of the rules which formed 
part of a non-refundable contract. The clients as part of the chargeback request explained 
that they did not receive what they had paid for and had to call the police to get their 
belongings. The owner of Q accepts police attended and has shown she reported various 
behaviours. There is no evidence these resulted in any criminal prosecution.
I cant know exactly how the card issuer made a decision on the chargeback. But I find these 
circumstances highly relevant to whether or not it would be successful. In saying that I take 
into account that SumUp said it had sent as part of the original defence details of the 
cancellation policy and a letter supporting Qs position from the third-party agent. And that on 
the first occasion some evidence must have allowed the chargeback to be decided in Qs 
favour. Ive seen the clients had then provided their police report about what happened at 
the property and explained that they did not have access to the accommodation. And I dont 
think that Q in any event had any new evidence that would have likely changed the outcome 
of the chargeback. So, I dont see the prospect of any different result here.
Q has made a number of points which Im going to dealt with but which I dont think make a 
difference here either.
Q explains that when it signed up to the merchant agreement it had a higher transaction 
limit. And that this was then reduced. I can see that as it shows it had processed a 
transaction for a higher amount than Euros 1,000 in September 2017. But I can also see 
clear evidence that in May 2018 SumUp clarified that a reduced limit of Euros 1,000 for virtual transactions would stand and a request for a higher limit was refused. That was in my 
view a matter for SumUp and in any event happened long before these transactions.
Q has made a number of comments about the validity of the chargeback. But I dont see 
those have merit. The relevant time limit was from the date of receiving services not booking 
here. While Q has noted a discrepancy between the primary name on the booking and that 
on the credit card, that did not affect the payment going through as it did not seem to be 
something checked on authorisation. And Im clear that the chargeback was not made and 
defended on the basis that the payment was fraudulent. I also dont see a conflict between 
there being no chargeback for the night the clients did stay and the reason that goods or 
services were not as described or were defective for the nights they didnt. Frankly Q 
reasonably knew the background to why the clients were making the chargeback for the 
further booking given the way in which they had departed.
SumUp has made a number of points about the documentation Q submitted. It said that Q 
should not be splitting payments to avoid the virtual payment limit. And that an invoice would 
be required for each payment to support the claim. And so, it did not provide some of that 
documentation as part of the defence to the claim. I dont see that was a mistake by SumUp. 
And as I say it had provided what Q thought was a key part of its defence which was the 
non-refundable conditions and the letter from its booking agent. 
I think there was the potential for some confusion here. Notice both that the first defence of 
the chargeback was successful, and the second presentation of chargeback was being 
made was sent on the same day to SumUp. But Ive seen an email from SumUp to Q dated 
2 October 2019 notifying the further chargeback. And Q responded to this on 15 October 
2019. SumUp says it then sent documentation relating to the chargeback to Q on 16 October 
2019 and that it did not receive any different new evidence to challenge the chargeback. 
While Ive seen a further letter from the third-party agent dated 5 November 2019 Im not 
persuaded that this was significantly different to what had been said before.
I am not looking at the totally separate chargeback in this complaint. But I will mention that in 
SumUps response to Q of 6 August 2019 about that it said it was company policy not to 
appeal a second chargeback. In the response to this complaint it has said that it would have 
considered appealing if it had new evidence. And that it would be an expensive option. It 
hasnt substantiated how it arrives at the cost per transaction, but I accept that there would 
be costs of arbitration. I think it is fair to say that it would need something highly significant to 
take this step. And also, as I say in my view Q reasonably knew the reason for the 
chargeback and had an opportunity to put its evidence forward. I can see though why the 
owner was frustrated at the apparent lack of clarity and consistency here.
Q says the amount SumUp says it owes is not correct. Although Q has provided some 
figures about this its not provided a reconciliation to any account document to substantiate 
that. Ive seen a copy of its merchant account statement for the period ending 31 October 
2019 showing how it came to owe Euros 1609.75 that month and SumUp says that this was 
sent to Q. I dont have a basis on the evidence to find that this is incorrect.
In conclusion while I think that SumUps communication with Q could have helpfully been 
clearer Im not persuaded that its actions resulted in Q missing out on the opportunity of both 
pursuing the chargeback further and receiving a different outcome. As I explained thats my 
judgement of whats most likely and I know Q takes a different view. If Q does not accept my 
decision it remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman