DRN-1643339
 
The complaint 
Mr T and Mrs T have complained about advice they received from The Co-operative Bank 
Plc in February 2000 to invest £28,000 in a With Profit Bond.
Theyre represented by a claims management company (CMC) which says that:
Mr T and Mrs T were advised to invest part of an inheritance too soon after Mr Ts 
mother died. They werent given enough time to become accustomed to their new 
financial situation;
they had an outstanding mortgage at the time and should have been advised to 
consider repaying or reducing this loan before investing;
Mr T and Mrs T were advised to invest too much of their savings in a medium to long 
-term investment when they had four dependent children and an insufficient cash 
reserves;
The Bond represented too much risk for their money. They were aware that the 
capital value of the bond could fluctuate and the fund was too high risk for them. The 
adviser failed to establish their attitude to risk and didnt warn them that the value of a 
With Profit fund relied on terminal and reversionary bonuses, which may not be 
earned in adverse market conditions.
What happened
From the limited information thats available from the point of sale, our understanding is that, 
in February 2000, Mr T and Mrs T were both approaching age 50, with four dependent 
children. They wished to invest £62,000 for capital growth over the medium-to-long-term and 
were recommended to place £28,000 in a With Profit Bond. Of the remaining £34,000, they 
invested £10,000 and £7,000 each in a higher risk unit trust and a medium risk-rated ISA 
respectively. Its not recorded what total savings they held and, hence, what proportion of 
these saving were being placed at risk.
The adviser did record that Mr T and Mrs T considered the option of using savings to repay 
their existing mortgage. But they rejected this idea because the terms of the loan applied an 
early redemption penalty of £2,500 and they would settle this debt from their remaining 
savings in due course. 
There is no evidence of Mr T and Mrs Ts personal and financial circumstance in February 
2000 other than a statement from the adviser at the time that: We agreed, having 
considered your income and expenditure, that the commitments recommended to you are 
affordable.
When Mr T and Mrs T surrendered the With Profit Bond in February 2010, they received 
back £32,571.  
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who felt the advice Mr T and Mrs 
T received to invest in the With Profit Bond was, on balance, not unsuitable. In response to the specific complaint points, she said that:
it was difficult to assess whether advice given four months after Mr Ts mother sadly 
died is sufficient time from Mr T and Mrs T to consider their personal and financial 
position. What is evident is that they contacted Co-operative Bank in December 1999 
to review their finances. But they were under no obligation to proceed with any 
recommendation and could have declined or deferred any advice they received if 
they felt under pressure to act;
the advisers suitability letter confirmed that Mr T and Mrs Ts mortgage applied an 
repayment penalty if the loan had been reduced at that time and that they decided 
they would repay the loan in due course;
while theres little information on Mr T and Mrs Ts financial position at the time, they 
were quoted as agreeing that the recommendations were affordable to them;
Mr T and Mrs T were looking for capital growth over the medium-to-long-term and the 
With Profit Bond satisfied that need while exposing their money to a moderately low 
degree of risk;
Although theres no evidence the adviser recorded Mr T and Mrs Ts attitude to risk, 
he did explain the nature of the With Profit fund, including the operation of 
reversionary and terminal bonuses, the application of tax and other charges and the 
possibility of a market value adjuster (MVA) applying in adverse market conditions;
Mr T and Mrs T received an illustration that set out the risk warnings and, in 
particular, that the value of the investment could go up as well as down.
In response, Mr T and Mrs Ts CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and said 
that Mr T had lost his mother only four months earlier. This was too short a period to grieve 
before accepting advice to invest in a product to which they would be committed for a 
minimum of five years, and potentially 10 years before the Market Value Adjustment (MVA) 
was waived.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, as Mr T and Mrs T took out the Bond 20 years ago and surrendered it in 
2010, there is little documentation remaining from the point of sale other than the advisers 
suitability letter and the original illustration. 
As such, its important to emphasise that the onus lies with Mr T and Mrs T to show, on the 
balance of probabilities, that the advice they received was unsuitable for them.
My understanding is that Mr T and Mrs T received advice to invest part of an inheritance
Mr T received following the death of his mother in October 1999. It is difficult for me to say 
whether it was premature to advise them to invest such a significant sum four months later. I 
dont think this necessarily excluded Mr T and Mrs T being advised to invest over the 
medium to long-term. The main consideration is whether that advice was suitable for them 
regardless.   
Mr T and Mrs T invested £28,000 in a With Profit fund, out of £62,000 they made available 
for investment. I dont know what proportion of their savings they agreed to invest altogether 
and whether this left them sufficient funds for emergencies. But the adviser recorded that 
this commitment was affordable for them and they placed around 45 per cent of this total 
sum in a fund that presented a low degree of risk. The fund also carried safeguards that bonuses, once allocated, couldnt be taken away and the fund manager smoothed the 
annual returns to ensure that some bonus was paid each year other than in very exceptional 
circumstances.
The adviser also explained the nature and operation of a market value adjustment (MVA) 
that could apply to the cash value of the Bond in adverse market conditions. He also made
Mr T and Mrs T aware that this adjustment wouldnt apply at the Bonds tenth anniversary. 
Indeed, it seems that they took particular note of this feature as they surrendered the Bond 
after 10 years with no deduction.
While Mr T and Mrs T received a modest return from the Bond after 10 years, its value held 
up during two periods of severe economic depression, in 2001/2002 and 2007/2008.    
I do appreciate the point made by Mr T and Mrs Ts CMC that it can be advisable to repay or 
reduce a mortgage loan if the interest rate charged is higher than they could reasonably 
achieve from the Bond. But it seems their mortgage applied an early redemption penalty of 
£2,500 at the time and Mr T and Mrs T agreed to settle this debt later with available capital 
savings.
All things considered, based on the very little information available, Im not persuaded that 
Mr T nd Mrs T received unsuitable advice in February 2000 to invest in the With Profit Bond. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mr T and Mrs T's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Kim Davenport
Ombudsman