DRN-4395031
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains about a claim it made on its DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited (DAS) commercial legal expenses insurance policy.
Ms complaint is brought by Mr M on its behalf.
Mr M says M was treated unfairly.
What happened
M made a claim on its DAS commercial legal expenses insurance policy as freeholder of a 
property concerning damage caused to its property. 
DAS appointed a panel firm to consider its claim under the property section of the policy. Mr 
M was unhappy with the time it was taking the panel firm to consider the claim. He said M 
was being threatened with legal action. DAS chased the panel firm and asked them to 
provide a response sooner than their usual timeframe. They also offered M £75 in 
recognition of the delay in confirming cover was in place. Mr M declined this offer. 
Following this, the panel firm reviewed Ms claim and concluded they werent experienced in 
the area of law applicable to one aspect of Ms claim as part of it concerned a claim relating 
to Ms tenants and that was not something they could look at under the property section of 
cover. Because M required urgent advice, DAS arranged a legal advisor from its helpline to 
call Mr M and discuss matters with him. 
DAS then considered whether Ms claim in respect of its tenants was covered under the 
contract section of the policy before it could appoint another firm of Solicitors to look at that. 
They concluded the policy wouldnt respond because this section of cover only applied to 
contracts for goods or services. As the tenancy agreement was neither of those, DAS said it 
couldnt assist M further.
The original panel firm continued to consider the remaining aspects of Ms claim- specifically 
a claim for damage to Ms property against a third party who had conducted repairs. The 
panel firm concluded that they didnt have enough evidence to establish the cause of the 
damage to Ms property and who was responsible for it so they couldnt say the claim had 
reasonable prospects of success. Mr M then asked DAS to fund an expert report for M to 
help prove its claim had reasonable prospects of success. DAS declined but said that if M 
was able to obtain a report that changed the merits of its claim to place it within cover, it 
would reimburse it for the cost of this. 
M then supplied an expert report so Mr M asked DAS to reconsider the claim. DAS referred 
the matter back to the panel firm to consider. The panel firm reviewed the report and 
concluded that the matters complained and documented within the report couldnt be 
considered without first determining who is responsible for what under the lease applicable 
to Ms property. Given this fell outside the scope of their expertise, they said they couldnt 
consider things further. DAS then reviewed the matter and said the claim was excluded 
under the contract section of the policy because it related to a lease. As such they turned 
down cover.
Mr M is unhappy about how DAS handled Ms claim and the fact that it was one that would 
never have been covered. Hes also unhappy with the time taken to establish this. 
Our investigator considered Ms complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Mr M 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms complaint. Ill explain why under the headings 
below.
Handling of the claim
Ive noted the chronology of events in summary above. When considering the handling of the 
claim generally, Ive thought about whether DAS should have known these claims were ones 
that would never have been covered, sooner than they did. 
Having done so, I think DAS couldve asked Mr M for further details of the claims sooner, but 
based on the information hed provided, Im not sure that would have necessarily revealed 
they wouldnt have been covered by the policy. I say so because M had a few issues he was 
exploring with the panel firm. And those issues werent straightforward. Once the panel firm 
understood what they related to, as well as the evidence required to establish things, they 
provided advice about what they could and couldnt advise on and DAS were then able to 
review the claims under their policy terms further. 
In this case I think DAS were reliant on the panel firm to advise on how the claims would be 
considered in law. Thats because there was a possibility they could be considered under the 
property section of the policy, under nuisance and negligence- but after Mr M supplied an 
expert report, it became clear from the panel firms advice that the matters documented 
needed to be assessed under the obligations set out under Ms lease. I dont think DAS 
could have reached this conclusion themselves. They were reliant on legal advice to reach it 
as much as M was. So, whilst I understand why Mr M feels DAS couldve been clearer about 
policy coverage, I dont think it could necessarily determined whether exclusions applied until 
the panel firm clarified the details of the claims. And given M is a commercial customer, 
there is an expectation that they wouldve had some awareness of what was covered under 
the policy terms in the first instance. I dont think DAS couldve anticipated the exclusions 
that eventually applied based on the information they were given. And if they had applied 
them arbitrarily without them being properly considered first, this wouldve been unfair to M.
For clarity, I cant comment on the quality of the legal advice provided by the panel firm as 
that falls outside my remit but if Mr M feels the panel firm are at fault, then he can raise the 
matter with them directly with them or pursue Ms complaint through the Legal Ombudsman.
Mr M has questioned why DAS didnt appoint a panel firm with experience in contract law. In 
this case the contract being referred to is the tenancy agreement. I dont think DAS needed 
to. Issues concerning the tenancy werent covered by the policy, so I dont think appointing 
Solicitors that could have considered the tenancy would have been of any benefit to M. 
Withdrawal of fundingThe panel firm advised that the claim relating to the rehousing of Ms tenants wasnt a matter 
they could deal with as it was a tenancy issue. At this point DAS considered that claim and 
concluded this was excluded. Thats because that section of the policy relates to contracts 
for goods and services. Because the tenancy didnt amount to either, DAS declined to cover 
it. I agree with their interpretation in this regard.
The nuisance and negligence claims were turned down because they didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success, as required by the policy. Litigation can be expensive. A privately 
paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We 
wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim- including the strength of the evidence supplied. Instead, and as the 
investigator explained, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have 
got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question their reliance on that 
advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. DAS did this. 
Im satisfied that the Solicitor was experienced in the area of law M was asking for help with 
and Ive seen nothing that suggests their advice was based on factual mistakes. So, I think 
DAS were entitled to turn down cover when they did and I think it was fair for them to offer to 
reimburse the cost of any expert evidence M might obtain that supported the merits of its 
claim, if M chose to obtain this. Ill discuss the report further below but for the sake of 
completeness I dont think DAS were wrong to withdraw funding again after the panel firm 
advised the matter needed to be reviewed in relation to Ms tenancy agreement because this 
claim wasnt  covered by the policy terms.
Expert evidence
The expert report M supplied was from its tenants surveyor rather than one that M had 
obtained itself. Mr M says that if it had known about how things were going to unfold, he 
would have obtained his own expert evidence.
Ive thought about this, but I dont think this would have made much difference. Thats 
because the panel firms advice, following sight of the expert report supplied was that the 
matters complained of and documented within the report couldnt be considered without first 
determining who was responsible for what under the lease applicable to Ms property. I cant 
see how this advice would have changed if M had obtained its own report. Had it done so, I 
dont think the cost of it would have been covered by DAS because it wouldnt have 
established the merits of the claim- but rather led DAS to the conclusion that it wasnt one 
that was covered under the policy because it related to a lease. So I think M would have 
been out of pocket if it did this.
Delays
There were some delays at the beginning of Ms claim which DAS acknowledged and 
offered M £75 for. I appreciate Mr M wasnt happy with this, but I think the sum offered for 
the duration of the delay (a little over two weeks including Christmas holidays) was 
reasonable. I know Mr M feels this time added to the worsening condition of Ms property, 
but I dont think DAS is responsible for that. 
Mr M was unhappy with the time the panel firm said they would take to assess the claim 
initially. I can see that the timeframe quoted is in line with what we would expect but when 
Mr M complained of the urgency, I can see that DAS took steps to try to obtain the advice 
sooner. Mr M says the expert report he supplied wasnt promptly considered. I dont agree. DAS sent 
the report to the panel firm to consider. They did this and spoke to Mr M about it directly. 
They then followed that up in writing. There was nothing in the timeline surrounding this that 
makes me think DAS didnt do what they should have in a timely manner.  And as I said 
before, the worsening condition of Ms property during this time, isnt something DAS were 
responsible for. 
I know Mr M is unhappy about the time it has taken DAS to reach the conclusions it did 
about the extent of cover, but as I said above, I think they were reliant on the advice of the 
panel firm to reach this conclusion, so I dont think I can say their overall decision to 
withdraw funding was delayed- rather it followed the advice given to them. As such I cant 
say that DAS should pay anything further.
If Mr M wants to accept the sum of £75 initially offered to M, he should contact DAS directly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman