DRN-2023168
The complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) mis-handled the downgrade of his current account. 
What happened
Mr J processed a partial switch of his TSB premier current account to another bank. He then 
visited a branch of TSB and asked to downgrade his account to a non-fee paying account. 
TSB sought to process the downgrade but found that its system would not allow it, which it 
believed to be due to the partial switch in process. Mr J was informed to try again once his 
direct debits had been transferred. He did so, but TSB found again that the downgrade 
wasnt possible on its system. Mr J was informed that he would need to close his premier 
current account and open a new account.
Mr J complained as, after banking with TSB for many years, he was concerned that he 
would lose access to his banking history. He asked TSB to pay his premier account fee until 
the downgrade could be processed.
TSB explained that the system problem could not be addressed. It paid Mr J £75 to 
compensate him for three months of fees, in which period it said Mr J could close his premier 
account and switch to another account. It also paid him £25 in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused. TSB offered to provide Mr J with copies of his bank statements and 
payment details.
Mr J was not satisfied with this offer and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the matter and suggested that TSB should compensate Mr J a 
further £125 for the inconvenience caused by its system failure. However, Mr J felt this 
wasnt enough, saying that TSB should continue to pay his premier account fees until it 
could perform the downgrade. TSB also didnt agree as it felt it had provided Mr J with the 
best possible workaround and had covered his fees for a generous period in which to 
achieve this solution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J reasonably expected that he could downgrade his premier current account to a 
standard current account and, in the absence of TSBs system error relating to the partial 
switch, this would have been possible. Mr J may not have chosen to partially switch his bank 
account had he known that it would block his ability to downgrade his TSB account.
However, having reviewed the conditions of the premier account held by Mr J, I have seen 
no obligation on TSB to provide customers with the ability to downgrade to a standard 
current account. Therefore, given the limitations of its systems, I believe TSB has sought to 
meet Mr Js request in the best available way. While this may not be ideal for Mr J, TSBs 
offer to provide him with his bank statements and payment details, in combination with 
retaining his online banking profile, appears the best solution which could be provided.
Given that TSB clearly communicated to Mr J that it would be unable to achieve the 
downgrade he requested, and then paid Mr Js fees for three months to cover the period for 
him to adopt an alternative solution, I do not think it would be fair to ask it to compensate Mr 
J for any further fees. Three months was a reasonable period in which Mr J could make the 
necessary changes and it has been Mr Js choice not to do so in this time.
Nevertheless, I believe Mr J did have a reasonable expectation, before embarking on his 
partial switch, that TSB would be able to process the downgrade of his account. Indeed, the 
reasonableness of this expectation is evidenced by the apparent surprise of the branch staff 
who also thought it would be possible. And had Mr J known that conducting the partial switch 
would limit his ability to downgrade his account, he may never have done it. 
While TSB sought quickly to propose a good workaround, the inability to conduct the 
downgrade was due to a TSB system error, which could not be rectified in a timely way. And 
this has meant that Mr J will not be able to retain his banking history in the way he would 
have liked. For this inconvenience, I believe the £25 paid by TSB to Mr J as compensation is 
insufficient. 
In recognition of Mr Js inability to perform the downgrade as he wished, for his consequent 
inability to retain access to his banking history in the way he would have liked, and for the 
associated distress caused, I believe TSB should pay Mr J a further £125.
My final decision
My decision is that I require TSB Bank Plc to pay Mr J £125. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman