DRN-3412397
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed her to be included in a joint mortgage 
application without her knowledge or consent and even though she had no income at the 
time.
What happened
Mrs S and her former husband have a joint mortgage secured over the property Mrs S lives 
in. The mortgage was applied for in late 2010 and completed in 2011, and was used to buy 
the property.
Mrs S says that throughout her marriage she was a victim of domestic and economic abuse, 
including controlling behaviour relating to finances  her former husband pressurised her into 
taking out a personal loan in her sole name to fund his business, for example. Following our 
involvement, Barclays has since written that loan off.
Mrs S says that in 2010 and 2011 she was living abroad to care for a relative. She says that 
she briefly returned to the UK towards the end of 2010 and viewed some properties with her 
former husband, but did not agree to buy any of them. When she came back to the UK 
permanently from 2011, she found he had bought one of the properties. She says he told her 
at the time that the mortgage was in his sole name.
Later on the relationship broke down. For a time Mrs S lived abroad, but more recently her 
former partner moved out of the property after Mrs S obtained non-molestation orders. She 
and their children live in the property. Mrs Ss income is solely from state benefits, and not 
enough to pay the mortgage payments. So the mortgage is in arrears. 
Mrs S complained. She said she had recently learned that she was a party to the mortgage 
too. She hadnt been aware of that at the time, and hadnt signed any paperwork  her 
husband had forged her signature, or used other people to impersonate her  on other 
applications and that may be what happened here. Or she recalls being taken to a Barclays 
branch and being asked to sign some papers without being told what they were  so she 
might have been on the application that way.
In any case, Mrs S said that at the time she had no income and was dependent on her 
former husband  so the mortgage should never have been sold as it was clearly 
unaffordable for her. 
Mrs S said that it wasnt fair to hold her responsible for the mortgage or the repayments. She 
wants Barclays to force the sale of the property to release her from the mortgage and allow 
her and her children to move on. She said her former husband was refusing to agree to a 
sale and was likely to go bankrupt. 
Barclays said this was a matter between Mrs S and her former husband. It said it couldnt 
get involved in a dispute between them now about what should happen to the property or the 
debt. It said that given the circumstances it would consent to us investigating the sale even 
though it was more than six years ago. 
But Barclays doesnt accept Mrs S was unaware of the mortgage at the time of the sale, and 
says its standard practice in joint applications to look at the income of both parties  which 
made the mortgage affordable based on its criteria at the time. It also said that Mrs S would 
have been able to see the mortgage account in her online banking, which she registered for 
in 2016. It said that the mortgage was in arrears and that while it had instructed solicitors, it 
would not take any recovery action until this complaint was resolved. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She thought that it was likely 
Mrs S did agree to the mortgage at the time, and that it wasnt mis-sold because of her 
income. The investigator said that Mrs S and her former husband were both liable for the 
mortgage, and it was for them to resolve between them what should happen to the property 
and how the mortgage should be repaid. 
Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im very sorry to hear of everything that Mrs S has told us about her experiences 
over the years. Im sure shes been through a very difficult time and the ongoing uncertainty 
about the mortgage and what is to happen to it no doubt contributes to that. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs S has said, and Ive looked at all the evidence to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened. I cannot be certain  but where theres a 
dispute based on the evidence Ive decided what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened.
Ive considered first of all the circumstances in which the mortgage was taken out. And Im 
afraid that I dont think I can find that Mrs S was unaware of it at the time. Shes told us that 
she and her former husband had discussions about buying property, though she hadnt 
agreed to go ahead.
But from what shes said, its clear she was aware from the start that the property had been 
bought. 
It was in joint names, as was the mortgage. Mrs S asked us to give her a copy of the full 
mortgage application, including the sections apparently signed by her. Shed told us that her 
former husband had forged (or got other people to forge) her signature on other applications. 
Our investigator sent her the full mortgage application in March this year, and Mrs S hasnt 
since said that the signatures on it are not hers. 
She has said that she recalls being asked to sign some papers in a Barclays branch without 
understanding or being told what they were. And Ive thought about this too. But the papers 
are clear that this is a joint mortgage application. And I must also bear in mind that before 
the mortgage can complete, and before the property can be purchased, in her name Mrs S 
would also have to have seen a solicitor and sign both the mortgage deed and the property 
title deeds  with the solicitor being satisfied that the person signing the forms was who they 
said they were, and that they wanted to enter into the mortgage and buy the property.
On balance, I dont think I can safely find that Mrs S was unaware of the mortgage when it 
was taken out. It may well be the case that her former husband dealt with all the finances 
and made the financial decisions in their relationship  and Ive taken into account what 
Mrs S has said about his controlling and abusive behaviour  but I also have to take into account the law which says that where someone signs an agreement they are bound by it. 
Mrs S says that, in any case, the mortgage was mis-sold to her because she had no income 
at the time so it wasnt responsible to tie her into a debt she had no way of repaying. But Im 
afraid this is to misunderstand how joint mortgages work  affordability for a joint mortgage 
requires that the borrowers can afford it between them. It doesnt require that each borrower 
can afford the mortgage on their own. 
Its common that one party earns more than the other, or that both parties pool their 
resources to afford a mortgage neither could get on their own  this is the nature of joint 
borrowing. And so the mere fact that Mrs S wasnt working and had no income at the time 
does not mean that she should not have been party to the mortgage. What mattered was 
whether she and her former husband could afford it between them (even if, in practice, he 
was the only earner)  not whether she could afford it on her own. 
While the mortgage is clearly unaffordable now, that seems to be because their 
circumstances have since changed rather than because it was unaffordable at the time it 
was taken out.
In any case, even if I were to find that Mrs S should never have been on the mortgage, and 
as a result directed Barclays to take her off it, that would not resolve the underlying situation. 
There would still be a mortgage (even if just in the name of her former husband rather than 
both names), it would still be secured over the property Mrs S lives in  and jointly owns  
and Mrs S would still be faced with the property being repossessed if the mortgage 
continues to go unpaid.
Mrs S wants Barclays to require the property to be sold, so that the mortgage can be repaid 
and she and her children can move on. And that may well be the best solution. But her 
former husband has not agreed to that, and has made clear he doesnt want to be involved 
in the mortgage in any way, especially following his bankruptcy.
This is essentially a dispute between Mrs S and her former husband, and one they will need 
to resolve between them. I dont know whether or not theyve formally divorced, or whether a 
court has made financial orders as part of the divorce if so. But thats the best place to 
resolve what happens to the property and what, if any, share of the equity each party is due.
Where one party  Mrs S  wants the property sold but the other party  her former husband 
 hasnt agreed to that, Barclays cant reasonably be expected to decide between them. It 
has responsibilities to both its customers, and any dispute between customers is for them to 
resolve themselves. If she hasnt done so already, therefore, Mrs S might want to take legal 
advice on the financial aspects of their relationship breakdown. Ultimately, if she and her 
former husband cant agree, a court will need to decide what happens to the property.
However, all that is subject to whether the mortgage is being paid. Unfortunately, at the 
moment, neither Mrs S nor her former husband is able to make the full monthly payments 
required. The mortgage is in arrears, and the arrears are growing. In that situation, if there is 
no solution and as a last resort, Barclays would be entitled to repossess and sell the 
property following a court order. It has paused action while we consider this complaint, but 
now this complaint is at an end its likely that recovery action will re-start. Mrs S will need to 
keep in touch with Barclays about her plans and situation  including whether she is taking 
legal advice  and Barclays will need to take that into account and treat her fairly as it 
considers what further action to take. If repossession happens, it will be for Mrs S and her 
former husband to agree  or a divorce court to decide  what share of the equity each is 
entitled to after the mortgage is repaid. I do sympathise with the difficult position Mrs S finds herself in. But having considered 
matters carefully, Im not persuaded that Barclays has acted unfairly, and so I dont think I 
can fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman