DRN-2663550
The complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused to indemnify him 
for a claim made by a third party under a motor insurance policy and that it holds him liable 
for costs it incurred in investigating the matter.
What happened
Mr T contacted Admiral to tell it hed received a letter from the police about an incident hed 
been involved in while driving on the motorway. Mr T accepted that he was in the area at the 
time, and that no one else would have been driving his car. But he said he had no 
recollection of any incident. 
In the event, the police decided not to prosecute anyone for the incident. But the owner of 
the other vehicle subsequently made a claim against Mr Ts insurance policy for damage to 
their vehicle and injuries which it alleges the occupants of the vehicle suffered.
An assessor examined Mr Ts car on Admirals behalf. It said, in summary, that although 
there was some damage to the rear, it appeared to be historic.
Admiral then appointed an investigator to review the incident. The investigator took 
statements from Mr T. After hed seen the dashcam footage from the other car, he accepted 
that hed slowed down, but said he didnt know why. He still maintained that there hadnt 
been any collision. 
Having reviewed the investigators report and the dashcam footage from the other vehicle, 
Admiral concluded that there had been a minor collision caused by Mr T braking for no 
reason after undertaking the other vehicle.
Admiral wrote to Mr T explaining that it considered his driving to have been in breach of two 
provisions in his policy. The letter didnt explain in what specific ways Admiral considered 
Mr T had breached those provisions. But it went on to say that it believed hed deliberately 
attempted to mislead it about the circumstances surrounding the incident, and as a result it 
had no option but to repudiate Mr Ts claim. It added that it had incurred costs in 
investigating the claim and required Mr Ts proposals to reimburse them.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he 
explained that it isnt our role to decide about liability. But he didnt think Admiral had treated 
Mr T fairly. He said that Admiral had a duty to consider any third party claim against Mr T 
unless it could show that hed breached the policy. And he didnt think it had shown this. So 
he said Admiral should deal with the third party claim. And he didnt think it was fair of it to 
require Mr T to reimburse it for the costs of its investigation.
Admiral disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although we dont decide liability, we can look at whether an insurer has reached its decision 
fairly, reasonably and in line with the policy terms.
The first of the provisions that Admiral considered Mr T to have breached was under the 
heading Care of your vehicle. It provides that the policyholder must protect their vehicle 
from loss or damage. And it says that If an incident happens, and you or any person 
covered by this policy fails to protect your vehicle from loss or damage through the 
inappropriate conduct of the driver no cover under the policy will be provided and instead 
our responsibility will be restricted to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic 
Law.
I dont consider this provision to be relevant to Mr Ts case. The provision concerns damage 
to Mr Ts car. Mr T hasnt made a claim for damage to his car as a result of the incident. And 
the assessor was unable to conclude that the incident had resulted in any damage to Mr Ts 
car. It may be that Mr Ts conduct could be considered to have been inappropriate. But I 
dont need to decide that, as Im not satisfied that the provision has any application here.
The other provision that Admiral said Mr T had breached said You will not be covered for 
any liabilities you may have for any accident, injury, loss, theft or damage which happens 
while your car is used by youfor criminal purposes, or deliberate use of your car to 
cause damage to other vehicles or property; and/or to cause injury to any person and/or to 
put any person(s) in fear of injury.
Ive reviewed the dashcam footage, and accept that it shows Mr T undertaking the other car, 
before apparently breaking even though the road in front appears to have been clear. I cant 
be sure why he did this, and I accept that the dashcam footage suggests that Mr T wasnt 
driving well. But in order to find that it was fair of Admiral to have deemed Mr T to fall within 
this exclusion, Id need to be satisfied that it was reasonable of Admiral to consider that hed 
intended to damage the other vehicle or to cause injury to someone else, or make them fear 
injury. Thats because the exclusion refers to deliberate use of the car to cause damage, 
injury or fear of injury. Thats a high bar to clear. 
Its not clear whether there was, in fact, damage to the other vehicle, or injury to its 
occupants. I understand that the third partys claim is on-going. But even if there was 
damage or injury, Im not satisfied that Admiral could fairly conclude, based on the evidence 
that it had, that Mr T deliberately caused it, or that he intended anyone in the other vehicle to 
fear that theyd be injured.
Admiral says that where its not indemnifying a policyholder, it would expect them to 
reimburse any costs its incurred. And its commented that if Mr T had confirmed what had 
happened from the outset, it may not have needed to appoint an investigator.
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not satisfied that Admiral was justified in refusing to 
indemnify Mr T for the third partys claim. And having considered Admirals records, I havent 
seen anything to make me believe that Mr T failed to cooperate with its investigation or 
sought to deceive it. Mr Ts consistently said that he wasnt aware that thered been a 
collision. Admiral accepts that any collision was minor. Based on the evidence provided, 
I think its possible that if there was contact between the vehicles, Mr T failed to realise this. 
And if he was unaware of any contact between his car and the other vehicle, I dont think its 
surprising if he has no recollection of the incident. So I dont consider it fair that Admiral 
should expect Mr T to cover the costs of its investigation
Putting things rightAdmiral should indemnify Mr T for the claim brought by the third party. And it should not seek 
to recover any costs from Mr T.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to 
indemnify Mr T for the claim made by the third party. And it should not require Mr T to cover 
any of its costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman