DRN-1553296
The complaint
Mr A has complained, via a representative, that Barclays Bank UK Plc ("Barclays") added a 
Tech Pack to his account without his consent. He has also complained that the fees 
increased without his knowledge.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didn't uphold it.
Mr A's representative disagreed with the adjudicator's assessment and asked for the 
complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've explained our approach to 
packaged bank accounts on our website and I've used that to help me decide this complaint.
Mr A's representative said that the Tech Pack was added to Mr A's account without his 
consent or awareness. However, I understand that Mr A's account has been a First 
Additions packaged account since 2008. Barclays says that it withdrew the First Additions 
account from its range of packaged accounts in 2015 and so wrote to all account holders to 
say that their accounts would be changing to a fee-free account but with a fee-paying Tech 
Pack added. This was to ensure its customer had access to similar insurance benefits that 
were on the First Additions account.
Barclays was able to make this change to Mr A's account, providing it gave him notice of the 
changes that were due to take place, so that he could decide whether to continue with the 
insurance benefits or not.
Barclays has provided evidence to show that it wrote to the UK address it had registered for 
Mr A in September 2015 to explain the changes that would apply to his account. It then 
wrote to Mr A again in December 2015 to confirm that the changes had been applied to his 
account. These letters clearly explained what changes would take place and what options Mr 
A had, if he didn't want to add a Tech Pack to his account. So I think Barclays took 
reasonable steps to inform Mr A about the changes on his account and his options.
Mr A's representative says that as Mr A was receiving benefits, Barclays should not have 
added the Tech Pack to his account. But the letters sent to Mr A explained how much the 
Tech Pack cost on a monthly basis. So I'm satisfied that Mr A was provided with enough 
information by Barclays so that he could decide whether the Tech Pack was affordable for 
him or not. 
Mr A's representative says that Mr A was living abroad at the time and that he was suffering 
from mental health issues. I'm sorry to hear about Mr A's circumstances. However, I can't 
see that Barclays was aware of this until November 2019. Therefore, I can't reasonably 
conclude that Barclays acted incorrectly or unfairly, or could be expected to have acted any differently, if it wasn't made aware of these issues around the time the Tech Pack was added 
to Mr A's account. 
Mr A's representative says that Mr A was also not made aware of the Tech Pack fee 
increases. In the time that Mr A held the Tech Pack, the fee increased to £12.50 in 
November 2017 and then to £14.50 in May 2019. And Barclays has provided copies of the 
letters it sent, again to the UK address it had registered for Mr A, which explained that the 
fees were increasing. So I'm satisfied that Barclays took sufficient steps to notify Mr A of the 
Tech Pack fee increases.
I understand that Mr A's representative was unable to obtain third party authorisation over 
Mr A's account. I appreciate that this must've been frustrating for her. But I can see that, in 
its final response letter, Barclays gave Mr A's representative the option to be added to the 
account either in branch or over the phone and provided the telephone number for the 
representative to be able to do this. So I think Barclays took reasonable steps, in responding 
to the complaint, to address this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Thomas White
Ombudsman