DRN-1805492
 
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the way Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) has used the 
compensation to settle his complaint about the mis-sale of payment protection insurance 
(PPI) related to a credit card.
 What happened
Mr L took out a credit card with Capital One and also took out PPI alongside it to protect his 
repayments.
Mr L complained to Capital One that hed been mis-sold the PPI. Capital One agreed to 
uphold his complaint and made an offer of compensation to settle it. But Capital One said 
Mr L still owed it for a debt on the credit card. So it was using the compensation to reduce 
the amount of money that was still owed on the card account debt.
Mr L says that he should get paid this PPI compensation directly as the credit card debt is no 
longer in effect. Capital One didnt agree and Mr L brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought it was fair for Capital One to use 
the compensation to reduce the debt that hadnt been cleared on the credit card account. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked for the case has been passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One has agreed to uphold the complaint and work out compensation for the mis-
sale. So in this decision I am not looking at how PPI came to be sold to Mr L. But I do need 
to consider whether Capital Ones compensation offer and how it has used the 
compensation is fair.
When a business has mis-sold PPI, it must put things right by putting the consumer as far as 
possible in the position they wouldve been in if they hadnt taken out PPI.  So Id expect a 
business to remove from the credit card account the PPI premiums, any card rate interest 
paid on those premiums and any further charges caused by the PPI. 
If, when the costs of the PPI are taken off the credit card balance, someone paid more than 
they needed to clear their balance Id expect a business to pay interest on the extra amount 
for the time they are out of pocket at the rate of 8% a year simple interest.
Capital One has worked out if Mr L didnt owe anything for the debt on his credit card, hed 
get back £754.98 in compensation. This is made up of £362.04 for the PPI premiums that 
were added to the account and £305.69 in interest caused by those premiums being on the 
account. In addition, as I indicated above, Capital One has worked out Mr L should get 8% simple 
interest on amounts he was out of pocket. Capital One has worked out this compensatory 
interest as £109.06 before income tax has been deducted and paid to HM Revenue and 
Customs. 
Mr L hasnt said he feels the total amount offered of £754.98 is wrong. And having looked at 
the calculations I also think what Capital One has worked out is fair. So, I now need to 
consider whether Capital One can use the compensation to reduce the debt it says Mr L still 
owes.
We usually say a business can use a consumers compensation to reduce their debts if the 
debt is on the account that PPI was sold alongside. This is what is called a closely 
associated debt. Here I can see that the PPI was associated with the same credit card 
account that went into arrears and on which the debt exists. So I think Capital One can use 
the compensation to reduce the debt.
Mr L has said that this debt goes back to 2011 when he defaulted on payments to his credit 
card. He has indicated that a County Court Judgement was obtained for the debt, but 
Capital One say that was not the case. There has been no evidence provided to indicate that 
any legal action was taken in connection with this debt. But in any event the records of the 
account indicate that the amount outstanding in 2011 was £952.54 and nothing was paid off 
that debt.
Because the debt is more than six years old and Capital One has not chased for it, the law 
doesnt allow any legal action to now be taken to recover the debt. And Capital One has not 
proactively taken any action to obtain payment of the debt Mr L owed. But that debt with 
Capital One still exists and some of it is for PPI premiums (and interest) that Mr L never paid. 
So I think its fair for Capital One to use the compensation to reduce the debt, otherwise Mr L 
would be getting a refund of PPI premiums (and interest) he didnt actually pay in the first 
place.
Capital One has to put Mr L as far as possible in the position he wouldve been in if hed 
never had the PPI on his account. He owed over £950.00 in total when he defaulted on 
payments to his account, and the PPI cost was responsible for part of his debt on the credit 
card. So Capital One has put Mr L in the position he wouldve been in now by removing the 
PPI from the debt. As if Mr L hadnt had PPI his debt would have been less.
Mr L says he thinks if Capital One uses the money against the credit card debt it is not being 
punished for its misdeeds. This service is not here to punish businesses, but to resolve 
individual complaints in a fair way for the parties. The Financial Conduct Authority is the 
regulator of financial businesses and is responsible for dealing with issues about any mis-
conduct by a business.  
Capital One hasnt actively taken any action against Mr L to seek repayment of the debt. It 
has used the PPI compensation it owed him to set off against a debt that is dormant but that 
he owed the business. Both debts relate to the same account and part of the debt Mr L owed 
to Capital One was for PPI costs he borrowed by adding the premiums to his account 
but never actually paid back. So it is fair to set one debt against the other in these 
circumstances.
Taking all these factors into account I think what Capital One has done with the 
compensation is fair.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above I think Capital One (Europe) Plcs offer of compensation to 
Mr L and what it has done with the compensation is fair, so I dont direct it to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman