DRN-3897891
The complaint
Mr J complains about how his insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA), handled a claim under 
his home insurance policy for damage to his property from an escape of water.
References to AXA include their agents who handle claims.
This decision only covers those aspects of Mr Js complaint to this service, the cash 
settlement made under the buildings section of his policy for repairs to the damage caused 
by the escape of water and the way that AXA handled the claim. It doesnt cover other 
aspects, such as Mr Js claim for damage to electrical items and other contents.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr J returned home, following an overnight stay with a friend, to find there 
had been an escape of water. He traced the leak to a pipe to an upstairs toilet The leak led 
to the ceiling in the kitchen below collapsing, along with the ceiling light. There was also 
damage to the kitchen walls, window sill, boiler, worktops and units, as well as to appliances 
and the floor. He contacted AXA to tell them about the leak and damage and lodge a claim. 
AXA appointed a surveyor (B) to visit the property and assess the damage. B visited the 
property two days after Mr J notified the incident. In their report, B concluded there had been 
ongoing damage for some time, which wouldnt be covered under the terms of the policy (as 
it was due to gradually operating causes or wear and tear, both exclusions under the policy). 
Mr B challenged the decision and provided evidence to support his view that a leak from the 
toilet had caused damage. After further review AXA agreed to cover damage from the leak. 
Mr J agreed some damage, from rising damp, had been ongoing for some time, so wouldnt 
be covered. 
AXA offered a cash settlement for the damage (£3,320  less the policy excess of £500, 
leaving a net settlement of £2,820). This was based on a scope of works to repair the 
damage caused by the leak prepared by B. Mr J then obtained two estimates for repairing 
the damage, totalling £5,545. AXA subsequently increased their settlement offer (to a net 
£3,330) and paid this to Mr J the following month. But given the difference between the two 
figures for the cost of the repair work, Mr J couldnt complete all the work included in his 
estimates, so he complained to AXA.
AXA upheld his complaint in respect of the distress and inconvenience their initial decline 
(then partial acceptance) of his claim had caused. In their final response they apologised for 
the distress and inconvenience, issuing £100 in compensation (in addition to awarding £25 
for the time taken to respond to his complaint). Regarding the cash settlement, AXA said 
they checked the estimates provided by Mr J and made amendments to what they 
considered current labour and materials cost for Mr Js area. So, AXA maintained the 
settlement was fair and accurate for the required repairs.
Mr J then complained to this service. He was unhappy at AXAs handling of his claim and 
their cash settlement. He didnt think AXA had treated him well, nor appreciated his 
circumstances (including mental health and other health issues). He wanted a formal 
apology from AXA for how theyd handled the claim and treated him. He also wanted 
compensation for the impact the experience had on him, particularly his health and his ability 
to work.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding AXA didnt need to take any action. . 
She thought AXA acted fairly in reviewing the claim and accepting the damage from the leak 
within a week of their original decline of the claim. She also thought Bs scope of work to 
repair the damage caused by the leak was more reflective of the damage caused, whereas 
the estimates provided by Mr Js contractors included some work she felt wasnt needed to 
repair the damage. She concluded AXAs cash settlement fairly reflected the repair work 
needed from the damage from the leak (rather than from pre-existing issues).
Mr J disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He didnt think the claim had been settled as quickly as the investigator thought 
(AXAs settlement was paid over a month after the incident). Nor had the impact on his 
health and wellbeing been properly considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first acknowledge what Mr J has told us about his circumstances, including his mental 
health and other issues. I appreciate the damage to his property would have been very 
stressful for him, together with the subsequent claims process  particularly as the claim was 
initially declined, but then subsequently accepted in part. All these things would have added 
to the stress on Mr J, and Ive borne this in mind when considering his complaint, given my 
role here in deciding whether AXA have acted fairly towards Mr J.
In considering the complaint, the key issue is whether AXA have acted fairly in their offer of a 
cash settlement for the repair work due to damage from the leak. Mr J says the settlement 
(being less than the estimates from his contractors) means he cant carry out all the repair 
work needed. AXA say their settlement is fair, reflecting the work required to repair the 
damage from the leak (but not other work related to pre-existing issues).In addition, Mr J is 
unhappy at how AXA handled his claim, including the time taken to accept the claim and 
make a settlement (notwithstanding his disagreement with the sum itself). He also doesnt 
think AXA have recognised the impact of what has happened on his health and wellbeing.
On the first issue, the cash settlement, Ive carefully considered the information and 
evidence available, including the detailed, costed scope of work prepared by B, as well as 
the estimates provided by Mr Js contractors. Having done so, Ive concluded AXA have 
made a fair and reasonable settlement offer for the repair work needed in respect of the 
damage caused by the leak. I know this will be very disappointing to Mr J, so Ill set out why 
Ive come to this conclusion.
Looking at Bs scope of works, I think it covers the work needed to repair the damage 
caused by the leak. So, it includes repair work to the bathroom (the source of the leak) as 
well as to the kitchen ceiling (including light fitting), walls, units and worktop. Its also 
reasonable (as the policy terms and conditions provide) for the work to be costed at rates 
AXA CAN secure from their network of contractors (which are likely to be lower than those a 
consumer is able to obtain from contractors). Ive also noted that Mr Js estimates appear to 
contain an element of duplication in the work (which would account for some of the 
difference). Taking these points together, I think AXA have made a fair and reasonable cash settlement 
offer, based on a reasonable scope of work to repair the damage caused by the leak.  
Having reached this conclusion, Ive gone on to consider the second issue, how AXA 
handled the claim, including the time to accept the claim and issue a settlement. Looking at 
the information and evidence available, AXA appointed B when Mr J told them of the 
incident, B visited the property two days later and produced their report in which they 
concluded the damage was the result of an ongoing issue (so wouldnt be covered). Mr J 
immediately challenged this decision and AXA asked B to review the evidence provided by 
Mr J. AXA reviewed the claim and the evidence and accepted the claim (for damage caused 
by the leak) six days after Bs visit. On the same date they made their cash settlement offer 
(£3,320 less the excess of £500, leaving a net figure of £2,820). 
Mr J then obtained his own estimates which he provided to AXA. Review of the estimates led 
to a revised offer, which AXA paid later in September. 
Looking at this sequence of events, I think AXA acted in a timely way when first notified of 
the incident. And while they initially declined the claim, they responded quickly to Mr Js 
challenge and made a cash settlement offer within a week of their initial decline of the claim. 
I think thats a reasonable timeframe. And while further time passed as they received and 
reviewed Mr Js contractor estimates, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to want to 
review the scope of the work contained in those estimates, before confirming their [revise] 
cash settlement offer and paying it to Mr J later in September. 
I appreciate Mr J feels the process took too long, leaving him in difficult circumstances at his 
property. But I dont think AXA took AN unreasonable time in making a settlement offer, 
reviewing it (and Mr Js contractor estimates) before revising their offer and making payment.
Ive also considered what Mr J has said about the impact of what happened on his health 
and wellbeing. I recognise the incident and the damage caused left him in difficult 
circumstances. But incidents of this nature are inherently stressful and have a negative 
impact. Given my conclusion that AXA have acted fairly and reasonably in making their cash 
settlement, and the timescale within which they accepted the claim and paid the settlement, 
then I dont think theyve acted unreasonably towards Mr J. While its not part of this 
decision, Ive noted that in the period they were assessing his claim and making the 
settlement, AXA did reimburse Mr J for a hotel stay (when he wasnt staying with family or 
friends) and settled his claim for a replacement boiler.
On the  issue of compensation, AXA awarded £100 for having initially declining his claim, 
then accepting it. Given my conclusion about the settlement being fair and reasonable (and 
the time taken to assess the claim and make the settlement) I think £100 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman