DRN-3759991
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with some dental treatment hed had done, which had been funded by a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Close Asset Finance Limited (CAF).
What happened
In July 2020, Mr K took out a fixed sum loan agreement with CAF, to fund some dental 
treatment. He paid £2,277.50 towards the treatment himself, and the agreement was for 
£6,832.50 over 24 months; with monthly payments of £284.68.
Mr K wasnt happy with the treatment he received, as two crowns were fused together, and 
this made it difficult for him to maintain oral hygiene. He was also unhappy that he was 
originally told hed need to attend three appointments at the dental clinic, but he said hed 
had to attend ten. So, he complained to both the clinic and CAF.
A second opinion was obtained and, after reviewing this and the clinical notes, CAF said that 
the dental work would take a minimum of three treatments, but the exact number of 
appointments couldnt be guaranteed, and every case is treated individually. They also said 
Mr K had been advised the two crowns had been fused together before they were fitted 
(which was a worldwide recommendation  for a better sharing load), and hed said he 
was happy with this and for the fitting to go ahead.
CAF also said that the dentist who provided the second opinion didnt recommend the fused 
crown was replaced with two separate ones, and that joined crowns are recommended in 
cases where implants are positioned closer together.  Finally, CAF said that Mr Ks 
additional complaint that the colour of the fused crowns didnt match his existing teeth wasnt 
something hed ever raised with the clinic.
As such, CAF didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K wasnt happy with this, and he brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that, although Mr K had originally been advised that three treatments 
would be needed, there was no guarantee of how each treatment would go. And, although 
Mr K lived some distance from the clinic, so travelling to appointments wasnt convenient, 
shed seen nothing to show that Mr K was asked to attend unnecessary appointments.
The investigator also said that Mr K had been advised that a fused crown was the best 
option before the crown was fitted. And the dentist who provided the second opinion didnt 
recommend replacement with separate crowns. Because of this, she didnt think that there 
had been any misrepresentation or breach of contract. And she didnt think CAF needed to 
take any further action.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He said he was never told he would have a fused 
crown and, if he had been told this, he wouldve opted for a bridge instead. He provided an 
email from the clinic, dated 9 March 2021, which said linking implant supported crowns is 
common in order to distribute loading and ensure security  it is a clinical decision made by 
the dentist and the lab  a question of engineering if you will.
Mr K also provided an email from the dentist who provided the second opinion, dated 9 
September 2022. This said that the dentist did not provide any information [to CAF] during 
any conversation or in writing to them that contradicted or conflicted with the contents of my 
report. Given this, the investigator didnt change her opinion that CAF had acted reasonably 
and didnt need to do anything more. Mr K still didnt agree, and this matter has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr K paid for the treatment through a point of sale loan 
provided by CAF. And, in doing so, he was entitled to make a claim with them under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
In order for there to be a valid claim, there needed to be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement in place. Here, I can see the treatment plans were in Mr Ks name. And CAF 
have shown that the finance agreement was to pay for this treatment. As such, Im satisfied 
a valid DCS agreement exists here.
Ive then considered the financial limits that apply to a valid Section 75 claim. Mr K needed to 
have purchased a single item with a cash price of over £100 but no more than £30,000. I can 
see from the finance agreement that the total amount financed was £6,832.50. So, Im also 
satisfied the financial limits have been met for a valid claim.
Given this, Im satisfied Mr K had a valid claim under Section 75.
When considering this matter, Ive also considered the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
Section 49 (1) of the CRA says that every contract to supply a service is to be treated as 
including a term that the trader must perform the service with reasonable care and skill. 
However, what is reasonable care and skill isnt defined within the CRA. So, while another 
dentist mayve done things differently, it doesnt follow that the dentist who treated Mr K has 
therefore done something wrong. 
This was a complex treatment, for which there were different ways to carry it out  some of 
which mayve been better than others. But, for me to say that Mr K wasnt treated with 
reasonable care and skill, there needs to be compelling expert evidence that shows the 
treatment Mr K received falls below what a reasonable standard would be expected to be. 
And, in this instance, I dont think thats the case.
From what Ive seen, its my understanding that Mr K had dental work done prior to visiting 
the dental clinic, which included having implants in his jaw to which crowns could be fixed. 
And, at the initial appointment with the clinic on 23 July 2020, it was agreed that crowns 
would be fitted to these implants. The clinical notes show that this work was expected to be 
done in three visits. However, Ive seen nothing to show me that this was a guaranteed 
maximum of three visits.Ive also noted that this is at odds with the treatment plan, dated 24 July 2020, which clearly 
says that four appointments would be required. Whats more, a further treatment plan dated 
15 September 2021 clearly says that a further seven appointments would be needed.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Mr K was guaranteed that his treatment would 
be complete in three visits. Its clear from the treatment plans that more than three visits 
would be required and, while I appreciate the distance made it inconvenient for Mr K to 
attend these appointments, Ive not seen anything that satisfies me Mr K was required to 
attend any unnecessary appointments.
Impressions were taken and the fused crowns were fitted on 19 September 2020. I havent 
seen anything in the express terms that says separate crowns were to be fitted, and I 
havent seen anything to show me that the manner of the treatment was agreed. Theres 
also nothing in the clinical notes at this point that expressly says that either a fused crown or 
separate crowns were discussed with Mr K. But I have seen that the notes for 19 September 
2020, say seat ** linked crowns***, and also say good result approved by patient.
The clinical notes show that Mr K had problems with the fused crown, and it was causing 
him some pain. As such, he needed to revisit the clinic for adjustments to be made. And the 
notes for the visit on 12 December 2020 say seat [specified teeth] linked implant crowns  
patient approved all elements as satisfactory. Finally, the clinical notes for 11 April 2021 
record reassure re linked crowns and explain it is to do with implant positioning making it 
impossible to have individual crowns.
Mr K obtained a second opinion on the dental work that had been done, and Ive seen the 
report dated 10 January 2022 following the second opinion examination. The dentist who 
undertook this examination noted the implant crowns were over-contoured [and] it is 
plausible food may get caught and maintenance of optimal oral hygiene in this area may 
prove challenging. The dentist also said that they couldnt comment on whether this was an 
issue with the crown placement, or whether its something that had developed over time.
However, the report makes no comment on the crowns being fused, or on whether the fused 
crown should be replaced with separate crowns.
Ive also seen CAFs notes from their conversation with the second opinion dentist, following 
this report. And these say the dentists opinion was that Mr K wouldnt benefit from having 
the fused crown replaced by separate crowns. The dentist also said that Mr K had told him 
that hed never been told he was receiving a fused crown; and that he couldnt comment on 
this as he hadnt seen the clinical notes.
The second opinion dentist also provided Mr K with an estimate of replacing the fused crown 
with separate crowns. However, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied this was provided because 
Mr K asked for a written estimate, and not because it was the dentists professional opinion 
that this work should be done.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the dentist who treated Mr K used a level of 
professional discretion, and its likely their decision was (in whole or in part) based on the 
position of the existing implants in Mr Ks jaw. But Ive seen no persuasive information that 
Mr K was specifically misled, or that he was promised separate crowns. Whats more, 
without persuasive evidence that separate crowns were specifically discussed, I cant 
conclude that the treatment was misrepresented to Mr K.Having reviewed the emails between Mr K and the clinic, Ive noted that the first time he 
complained about the crowns being fused was on 16 June 2021  nine months after the 
fused crown was fitted. And this seems to be because he was unable to floss in between the 
fused crown, which made oral hygiene more difficult.
However, the second opinion, while referring to the oral hygiene, doesnt say that its either 
impossible for Mr K to maintain good oral hygiene, nor does it say that to maintain this Mr K 
would be unreasonably inconvenienced. The second opinion dentist also doesnt say that 
the dentist who treated Mr K was negligent in fitting a fused crown, even if it makes 
maintaining dental hygiene more difficult. While Im able to make an award if the treatment 
results in long term detriment on Mr Ks health, for the reasons stated, Im not persuaded 
that, in this instance, thats the case.
More importantly, despite the second opinion dentist providing Mr K with an estimate at his 
request, I havent seen any recommendation that the fused crown is removed and replaced, 
either with another fused crown with a less pronounced contour, or with separate crowns (if 
this was possible due to the pre-treatment implant placement).
As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K., Im not satisfied 
that the treatment being undertaken was either misrepresented, or that the work wasnt done 
to a satisfactory quality and/or was carried out without reasonable care and skill. So, I wont 
be asking CAF to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Close Asset Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman