DRN-3289662
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC actions resulted in her being attacked and having 
money stolen from her.
What happened
Mrs W says she went to a Lloyds branch to withdraw £10,000 in cash In June 2021. She 
says Lloyds staff member repeated the amount she was withdrawing on about five 
occasions and in such way that alerted a male behind her about the large withdrawal. Mrs W 
says she was attacked later that day near her home and the £10,000 was stolen. She says 
one of her attackers was behind her in the Lloyds branch and would have known about the 
withdrawal. Mrs W also says that Lloyds then provided the wrong branch video recording of 
the incident and didnt keep the correct footage. She would like Lloyds to refund the money 
and says she has been caused anxiety due to its mistakes.
Lloyds says it followed its correct procedure for a large cash withdrawal and is obliged to 
confirm the amount. It says its also obliged to ask its customers in these circumstances 
potential fraud questions and did provide the Police with the video as requested. Lloyds says 
there was an issue with the time stamp and when the Police asked for updated footage it 
was no longer kept.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought Lloyds had followed its procedure for large cash withdrawals and it 
wasnt responsible for the actions of others. The investigator thought Lloyds could have dealt 
with the video footage request more appropriately and recommended Lloyds pay £150 
compensation for that part of the complaint.
Lloyds has agreed to pay that amount.
Mrs W doesnt agree with the investigators view and says Lloyds ought to have taken her 
into a private room. She says the Lloyds staff member wasnt discreet and that she asked 
Lloyds to keep the video footage. Mrs W says Lloyds refused to provide that footage and 
that could have led to the culprit being arrested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate the very difficult 
time she must be going through having been the victim of an offence. But I cant fairly hold 
Lloyds responsible for what took place for the reasons I will explain.
I am sure Mrs W appreciates that large cash withdrawals must be checked by banks and 
building societies to make sure its customers are not the victim of crime. That of course 
means asking customers about the withdrawal reasons. I have looked at Lloyds procedure in 
these circumstances and am satisfied it followed it when dealing with Mrs Ws request.
I appreciate Mrs W says she ought to have been offered a private room to conduct the 
transaction and the amount shouldnt have been repeated. But I also think that its likely Mrs 
W would have mentioned the withdrawal amount first and that it possible the person behind 
her heard that. So, it follows that I cant fairly conclude a private room or by Lloyds not 
mentioning the amount would have made any difference here. In any event I cant fairly hold 
Lloyds responsible for the actions of a third party and think it inevitable in a bank or building 
society that money is discussed.
I have looked carefully at Lloyds records about the video footage request. I make clear to 
Mrs W that I have seen the e-mail she has sent me from the Police, but I do not have access 
to the Polices official requests and am unaware why the date stamp was possibly incorrect.
I can see that Lloyds did provide the Police with video footage. And I can see that the Police 
e-mailed Lloyds on 18 June 2021 asking for the footage and that an Officer attended the 
Lloyds branch that day. Lloyds actioned that request on 18 June 2021. On 19 August the 
investigating Police Officer e-mailed Mrs W and told her the video footage was no longer 
available.
I cant fairly conclude from the e-mails I have been provided from both sides what the issue 
or problem was with the footage. And I make clear it is impossible to know what if anything 
would have been shown or that even if the offender was captured that would have resulted 
in Mrs W receiving her money back. I dont know why the Police did not made a request for 
the footage until 18 June 2021 and I cant be sure what was the issue with the footage sent 
by Lloyds. I also dont know when the Police followed the request up but can see that it was 
on 19 August 2021 over two months after the incident that the Police updated Mrs W about 
the lack of footage. In those circumstances I cant fairly conclude Lloyds was at fault in 
sending incorrect footage or by not acting in a timely manner. But I appreciate why the 
investigator reached the view he did and can also see that Lloyds has fairly agreed to pay 
the £150 compensation which remains open to Mrs W to accept if she wishes. 
Putting things right
Lloyds has fairly agreed to pay £150 compensation which for the reasons I have explained I 
will let Mrs W decide if she wishes to accept that offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman