DRN-2313353
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the success fee charged by Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast 
Track Reclaim (FTR), following a successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claim with 
lender N. 
What happened
FTR say following an online enquiry made by Mr B through their website in June 2019, they 
received a signed authority form to pursue potential PPI mis-sale claims on Mr Bs behalf 
against various lenders. Mr Bs complaint concerns lender N. 
 
FTR have provided screenshots showing the likely online journey Mr B wouldve gone 
through at the time of signing up to their service. The first screen says FREE PPI Check. 
This is followed by a caption saying There is no charge for the PPI check. If PPI is 
discovered terms and conditions apply. 
The second screen includes additional wording, explaining Once your PPI has been located, 
you can allow FTR to claim on your behalf or proceed with the claim yourself. The next two 
screens prompt Mr B to enter his personal details, and details for the lenders he wants FTR 
to look into. The fourth screen includes a box to insert an electronic signature. 
The final screen includes a heading Agree to T&Cs followed by the caption Use the tick 
box below to agree to our Terms and Conditions. Please note that the signature(s) provided 
on the previous step will be used to sign our Terms and Conditions. A tick box is provided 
next to the caption I agree to the above Terms and Conditions and understand that the 
check is 100% Free. 
The terms and conditions explained that in the event of a successful claim, FTR would 
charge a contingency fee representing no more than 24% inc. VAT in respect of any 
redress/compensation/goodwill payment recovered on your behalf .The terms and 
conditions also explained Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You 
authorise FTR to continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
Throughout July and August FTR sent text messages to Mr B asking him to return 
paperwork so that they could progress other outstanding claims where theyd found PPI. In 
response to one of these text messages, Mr B sent a text on 13 August saying I thought you 
said your service was free of charge to check, and no need to commit to your service. 
On 5 September FTR wrote to Mr B asking him to complete a PPI questionnaire. The cover 
letter explained IMPORTANT: You HAVE paid PPI and action is needed to receive your 
refund. Mr B didnt return the questionnaire.  
On 12 September lender N wrote to FTR and Mr B awarding compensation for his complaint. 
Shortly after this, Mr B complained to FTR saying that theyd acted without his authority in 
continuing with the claim against lender N. 
FTR said theyd acted fairly by making the claim using the signed letter of authority theyd 
received, and in line with the terms and conditions agreed to. Because of this, they didnt 
offer any compensation in settlement of Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree with FTRs response, saying that he hadnt signed any documents for FTR 
to continue with the claim, and it was only a free PPI check he thought hed agreed to. He 
referred his complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman 
service) for us to investigate.
The investigator found that Mr Bs behaviour indicated that he didnt want FTR to act for him. 
This included the text he sent, and also not returning any of the requests for paperwork. FTR 
disagreed with the investigators findings, saying that the terms and conditions made it clear 
that authority extended to a claims service once PPI had been identified.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 September 2020 saying that I intend to uphold this 
complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
FTR feel strongly that the terms and conditions form the agreement in place between two 
parties. On that basis in absence of a termination notice from either party the terms and 
conditions remain binding on both parties. Theyve also said The secondary documentation 
(emails and texts) which seeks to ensure the CMC provides the client with the best prospect 
of success is simply an attempt to obtain more information. It is not a further declaration 
and/or variation to the contract. 
I accept that the terms and conditions formed the basis of the contract with FTR. But I think 
its also fair to consider the information Mr B was presented with before making a decision to 
sign up to FTRs service. Ive considered the evidence as a whole- including the actions 
taken by Mr B, and the wording in the follow up texts, and information request, when 
deciding what a fair outcome should be for this complaint. 
The terms and conditions explained Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends 
and You authorise FTR to continue to provide You with the Claims Services. Although its 
not disputed that the terms and conditions allowed FTR to do this, Ive also considered the 
web journey, and the fact that it drew focus to FTR offering a FREE PPI Check. 
On the first screen, this wording is in capital letters, and is the largest, most prominent text 
on the page. The second screen says Once your PPI has been located, you can allow FTR 
to claim on your behalf or proceed with the claim yourself. I think it was reasonable for Mr B 
to proceed with the claim with the understanding that hed have the option to decide what to 
do once notified of the free PPI check outcome. 
FTRs case notes show that they were first notified that Mr B held PPI with lender N on 20 
August 2019. They reached out to Mr B on 5 September asking him to complete a 
questionnaire. Mr B didnt return this information. Prior to receiving this request Mr B also 
sent FTR a text message on 13 August saying I thought you said your service was free of 
charge to check, and no need to commit to your service.
FTR responded to Mr B on the same day saying:We work on a no win no fee basis, with no upfront costs. If we are successful, our 
fee is 20% plus VAT (24% in total) of that amount youre awarded prior to any taxable 
deductions If we do not get you a refund, there is nothing to pay to us. 
When FTR responded to Mr Bs text on 13 August, lender N had not confirmed the existence 
of PPI with FTR (this didnt happen until 20 August). So Mr Ns claim was technically still 
within the Free PPI Check Period. The definition of Free PPI Check Period within FTRs 
terms and conditions say that You will never be charged a Fee(s) during the Free PPI 
Check Period. 
I think FTR couldve done more to highlight the stage of Mr Bs claim when responding to Mr 
B. This wouldve allowed Mr B to make an informed decision on what to do. Its evident from 
Mr Bs text message that he is understood the service hed signed up for to be a free 
process. I think FTR shouldve told Mr B that they were awaiting a response from lender N in 
respect of whether hed been sold PPI, and that he was still within the Free PPI Check 
Period for this claim. If Mr B had been told this, given the information from the web journey, 
and his disengagement from the process later on, I think its more likely than not that he 
wouldve told FTR that he didnt want them acting for him in the claim. 
FTR first told Mr B about the existence of PPI with lender N on 5 September. The cover 
letter explained IMPORTANT: You HAVE paid PPI and action is needed to receive your 
refund. Mr B didnt respond to the request for information. I think it was reasonable for Mr B 
to have understood that FTR wouldnt be acting as his representative if he didnt take any 
further action. He had already been through an online process which highlighted the free PPI 
check. He had also reached out to FTR saying that he didnt think he had committed to 
FTRs service. On this basis, I think disengaging from the process was consistent with Mr 
Bs earlier actions on the claim.
 
FTR have also commented that Due to the PPI deadline this matter was an auto-convert 
case whereby the lender treated the Pre-Submission as a formal complaint and therefore a 
request for information is the same as a letter of complaint. However the terms and 
conditions also explained that You will never be charged a Fee(s) during the Free PPI 
Check Period. I think the wording here is conflicting. I accept that the process at the time 
meant that PPI checks to the lender would be treated as a formal complaint. But this doesnt 
reflect what the terms and conditions say about the customer having the benefit of a Free 
PPI Check Period. That is a period where they wouldnt be charged for FTRs service. 
In this case the web journey that induced Mr B in signing up to FTRs service placed 
emphasis on the PPI check process being free. This information is repeated across page 
one and two of the five page web journey. Before ticking agreement to the terms and 
conditions, the caption next to this also says I agree to the above Terms and Conditions and 
understand that the check is 100% Free. Given Mr B questioned FTRs process again in 
August 2019, when he was still within the Free PPI Check Period as defined in the terms 
and conditions, I think it was reasonable that he understood there wouldnt be any costs 
involved, unless he provided further instruction to FTR. 
During what was the Free PPI Check Period Mr B questioned FTRs process. I think the 
conflicting information in the terms and conditions about when this period would start and 
end meant that there was more responsibility on FTR to have clarified what stage Mr Bs 
claim with lender N was at, when he questioned the cost of FTRs service in August 2019.  
Having considered all the evidence Im persuaded a fair outcome is for FTR to waive their 
outstanding invoice for lender N, and cease any collection activity in respect of this. I think 
Mr B instructed FTR on the basis that theyd complete a free PPI check, and hed have the option to cancel or continue with FTRs service once notified of the free PPI check outcome. 
The terms and conditions about the Free PPI Check Period arent clear, and FTR had an 
opportunity to clarify Mr Bs options in August 2019 when he questioned their fees. All 
factors considered on balance I dont think it would be fair for FTR to charge Mr B for a 
service I dont think was made clear to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that simply disengaging from a process wouldnt usually be sufficient to say that 
FTRs terms and conditions shouldnt apply. But thats not what happened here. Mr B did 
question FTRs involvement, and he did so when the claim was still reasonably within the 
Free PPI Check Period. 
FTR have explained that they found out about the existence of PPI with lender N on 10th July 
2019. So technically this is when the Free PPI Check Period ended. However when Mr B 
questioned FTRs role in dealing with his claims on 13 August, he wasnt told about PPI 
being found with lender N. So I think its reasonable to say that the claim was still within the 
Free PPI Check Period as far as Mr B was concerned. 
I accept that Mr B didnt categorially tell FTR that he didnt want them acting for him. But I 
think the text message to FTR on 13 August went far enough in indicating that he didnt think 
FTR were doing anything more than providing a free PPI check service. I think there was a 
responsibility on FTR to have explained the stage of Mr Bs claim with lender N at the time. 
I think its more likely than not that Mr B wouldve cancelled the service with FTR, if hed 
been told that they were still acting for him. As no offers of compensation had been made by 
lender N, (and bearing in mind the conflicting terms and conditions around the start and end 
of the Free PPI Check Period), I think it wouldve been fair to treat Mr Bs cancellation as 
valid, and not subject to any cancellation costs.  
FTR have explained that the web journey for customers did change depending on when a 
customer signed up to their service. Ive determined this complaint on the evidence provided. 
Im satisfied that the wording throughout the online journey emphasised the nature of the 
service starting with a free PPI check, and the option to allow FTR to claim on your behalf or 
proceed with the claim yourself.
Looking at the facts of this case, including the web journey, the continual requests for 
information that were not responded to, and the claim with lender N reasonably falling within 
the Free PPI Check Period at the time Mr B questioned FTRs role, I think a fair outcome is 
for FTR to waive the outstanding invoice for lender N, and cease any collection activity in 
respect of this.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint.
Fast Track Reclaim is directed to waive the outstanding invoice for lender N, and cease any 
collection activity in respect of this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020. 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman