DRN-3771684
The complaint
Mrs N complains about her insurer, RSA Insurance Limited (RSA). Her complaint is about 
how they dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy for damage to her property 
from a flood, including the service provided and the cash settlement offered. 
References to RSA include their agents who handle claims.
This decision only covers those aspects of complaint made by Mrs N to this service about 
her claim, being the cash settlement offered by RSA and the service provided in dealing with 
her claim. It doesnt cover other aspects of the claim not included in Mrs Ns complaint, such 
as damaged contents and alternative accommodation and associated costs.
What happened
In December 2021 a burst water main further up the road of Mrs Ns property led to several 
properties being flooded, including the ground floor of her property. The water company 
provided some dehumidifiers for the affected properties. Mrs N contacted RSA the same day 
to tell them about the flooding and lodge a claim. RSA appointed P to project manage the 
claim and the work needed to reinstate the property. As her property was uninhabitable, Mrs 
N moved into temporary accommodation, which RSA agreed to pay for.
P contacted Mrs N to discuss the situation, including temporary accommodation. P also 
appointed a contractor (R) to assess the drying requirements and a loss adjuster (S) to 
assess the damage and the necessary reinstatement work. S inspected the property and 
assessed the reinstatement work needed. They also made Mrs N aware of the options to 
settle the claim, including using their approved contractors, her own contractors (subject to 
RSA approval) or a cash settlement. A detailed scope and cost of reinstatement work was 
then produced by one of RSAs network of contractors (E).
Separately, Mrs N obtained an estimate of the reinstatement work from a contractor she was 
familiar with from previous work. The estimate totalled £32,826 (excluding VAT). However, 
RSA werent happy with the cost of the estimate, saying the rates used for elements of the 
work and cost of some materials were high. They also thought it included work not related to 
the flooding (for example, painting of ceilings that they thought wouldnt have been affected 
by the flooding). Based on the scope of works prepared by S and E, RSA offered Mrs N a 
cash settlement of the claim at a total of £14,015 (net of VAT). Additionally, they offered 
£425 for furniture removal. The offer would also be subject to the policy excess of £350.
Mrs N was unhappy at the cash settlement offered, being significantly less than the estimate 
from her own contractor, as it would mean a significant financial impact on her if she was to 
accept the cash settlement offered by RSA (should she then engage K to carry out the 
reinstatement work). She was also unhappy at the time taken to assess the claim and at 
what she thought were delays in getting responses to queries and emails shed raised with 
P. So, she complained to RSA. 
RSA upheld her complaint in part. In their final response, they acknowledged delays in 
handling her claim, for which they awarded £100 in compensation. But they maintained their 
cash settlement offer was in line with the policy terms and conditions (which they noted Mrs 
N had accepted). The policy stated that when making a cash settlement offer, it would be 
based on the amount their own suppliers would charge for the work to be carried out. They 
also said they wouldnt cover any costs unrelated to the incident being claimed for, which 
was why there was a difference between the work (cost) scoped by them compared to the 
quote [from K]. 
Mrs N then complained to this service. She thought the service shed received from P was 
unacceptable, and she found the claim process lengthy and unnecessarily stressful. She had 
to wait for responses from P to emails. She was also unhappy at having to accept a much 
lower cash settlement figure from RSA compared to the quote shed had from K. She wasnt 
comfortable having contractors she didnt know appointed by RSA to carry out the work, 
preferring to use K to do the work as she knew them and trusted their workmanship.  She 
was also unhappy at the £100 compensation offered by RSA. She had to use savings to 
have the work completed to restore her property to its condition before the incident, so she 
had lost out financially. She wanted the cash settlement reviewed, as well as the 
compensation offered and the service from P.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought RSA acted fairly in saying theyd 
pay the costs of the work based on the rates theyd pay their own contractors. And this was 
made clear to Mrs C before she decided to accept the cash settlement. The investigator also 
thought there were items within Ks scope of work that werent related to the incident 
damage or to Ss schedule of work. So, it was fair for RSA to exclude these from their cash 
settlement offer. The investigator thought the £100 compensation offered by RSA for delays 
in handling the claim was fair.
Mrs N disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly towards Mrs N.
In considering the complaint, there are several elements. The main issue is whether RSA 
acted fairly in the cash settlement they offered Mrs N. Within this, there are issues about the 
scope of the work to be carried out (RSA say the quote from K included elements that 
werent due (or related) to the incident) and the costs (the rates) used to calculate the cash 
settlement figure. Mrs N is also unhappy at the service shes received from RSA (from P in 
particular) and has found the whole process to be unnecessarily stressful. She doesnt think 
the compensation offered by RSA is sufficient. RSA acknowledge there have been issues in 
handling Mrs Ns claim and have offered £100 in compensation.
On the main issue, the cash settlement offered and the scope of work it covers (and the 
cost), Ive first considered what the policy sets out in the circumstances where a cash 
settlement is offered. RSA refer to the following terms and conditions:
Well pay the cost of the work carried out to repair or replace the damaged parts of 
your buildings.
Well also pay fees and related costs that we agree to, as long as the damage is 
covered under your policy.
Whats the most well pay for any one claim?The most well pay for any one claim, including fees and related costs, is:
The amount itll cost us to repair the damage to your buildings in the same 
way, size, style and appearance as when they were new, or
The maximum cover limits shown on your Policy Schedule, or
Th full rebuilding cost of your buildings.
Well pay whichevers the lowest amount.
Looking at the terms and conditions, I think its clear RSA acted in accordance with the 
policy when making a cash settlement based on the estimated cost of the work from one of 
their suppliers. And this is standard insurance industry practice, so its not unusual. I 
appreciate what Mrs N says about preferring to use her own contractor, one shes familiar 
with and confident about the quality of their workmanship (rather than use an unfamiliar 
contractor appointed by RSA). But the policy terms are clear, and Ive concluded RSA acted 
fairly in basing their cash settlement offer based on an estimate from one of their 
contractors. Which would be based on rates agreed between RSA and the supplier, which 
are likely to be lower than those Mrs N would be likely to secure. Thats because insurers 
can negotiate discounted rates for work with contractors. Ive also noted comments from 
RSA (from E) about the rates and costs of specific elements of work being significantly more 
expensive than theyd expect (and in comparison with their own contractor rates).
On the issue of the scope of the work to be carried out (as distinct from the cost/rates used 
to determine the cash settlement), Ive looked carefully at what Mrs N and RSA have said, 
together with the supporting evidence and information. On balance, I agree with RSA there 
are elements of work in Ks estimate that dont appear related to the flooding. 
Taking these points together, Ive concluded RSA have acted fairly and reasonably in 
offering a cash settlement to Mrs N, and that its based on the scope of works from S (and E) 
and on rates available from their contractors. 
On the issue of the service received from P, and Mrs Ns view that the claim process was 
lengthy and unnecessarily stressful, and having to wait for responses, Ive considered what 
shes told us carefully. Ive also looked at the claim notes provided by RSA, including email 
and other records of engagement between Mrs N and RSA (in particular, with P). I agree 
there were some delays in responding to emails she sent, which RSA accept and 
acknowledge in their final response. Ive thought about the impact this would have had on 
Mrs N, in what I know would have always been a stressful situation from her property having 
been flooded and her having to move into temporary accommodation, as well as dealing with 
the claims process (including the various parties involved). Taking account of the 
circumstances, I think RSAs offer of £100 compensation is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman