DRN-3046658
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance plc (RSA) mishandled a claim on his van 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to RSA, I include its repairers, claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold 
RSA responsible for their acts and omissions.
What happened
For the year from late April 2020, Mr S had comprehensive van insurance with RSA. Any 
damage claim was subject to a policy excess of £275.00.
In November 2020, his van was involved in an accident with two third parties, one of whom 
Mr S held responsible. From early December 2020, RSA repaired Mr Ss van. He had to pay 
the policy excess.
In March 2021, RSA wrote a letter to Mr S. It said that its solicitor would contact him. But the 
letter contained contradictory information that this would happen within 30 days or 90 days. 
In April 2021, Mr S  complained to RSA about the service from its repairer, the confusing 
letter and the time it was taking to progress the liability dispute. RSA said it would get the 
van inspected, it offered £50.00 as an apology for its mistake in the letter, and it said its 
solicitors would provide an update. 
On 15 June 2021, RSA appointed another repairer to do rectification works to Mr Ss van  
On 18 June 2021, Mr S contacted us. He made additional complaints that RSAs solicitors 
had named him on court documents and were claiming costs that werent correct.
By a final response dated 14 July 2021, RSA said it had offered £50.00 and was offering a 
further £250.00.
Mr S asked us to investigator his complaint including an additional complaint about delay in 
the rectification work. In summary, Mr S asked us to direct RSA to repair his van and refund 
his excess.
Our investigator said he would deal with events up to 18 June 2021. He said RSA would 
respond separately to the more recent complaint about delays in the rectification work. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
RSAs response was fair and reasonable. He didnt think that RSA needed to pay Mr S any 
more than the £300.00 it had already offered. He was satisfied that RSA hadnt caused any 
unnecessary or unreasonable delays to the progress of Mr Ss claim against the third party.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
A reasonable time frame for repairs would be a maximum of 3-4 weeks.
RSA is responsible for poor service and poor communication.
RSA is responsible for bodged repairs and unnecessary extended delay in putting his 
van back to its pre- accident condition.
He had his vehicle delivered back to him on Friday 10 September 2021
The offer of £250.00 is to cover the costs of fuel and his time taking his van to the 
first repairer for inspection and for them lying to him about panels and parts that they 
told me they had replaced and for their poor service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against a regulated 
financial firm about regulated activities. We are bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
dispute resolution rules (DISP). One of those rules has the effect that  before we can deal 
with a complaint  the consumer mustve raised the complaint with the firm and waited up to 
eight weeks for a final response.
Most motor insurance policies provide that the insurer may choose whether to repair the 
policyholders vehicle or to pay its pre-accident value. If the insurer choses to repair, then the 
repaired vehicle may be worth less than it was before the accident  and the policy doesnt 
cover such loss of value.
Most motor insurance policies allow the insurer to use the policyholders name in 
proceedings against a third party to recover the insurers outlay. RSAs policy included the 
following:
Taking Over Your Rights
If you make a claim, you must be prepared to take any steps we reasonably ask you 
to take to protect your rights. You must also be prepared to allow us to act in your 
name and take any reasonable steps we feel are necessary to protect your rights.
This may mean that we defend or settle the claim in your name. If this happens, we 
will pay any costs and expenses involved.
The effect of that term is that RSA - rather than Mr S - would decide how best to deal with a 
claim against the third party.
I would expect RSA to do the repair to a satisfactory standard at the first attempt without the 
need for rectification work. In the absence of expert evidence about how long the repair 
shouldve taken, I cant say that Mr Ss maximum of 4 weeks is appropriate.
The initial poor-quality repair mustve been disappointing for Mr S. 
From RSAs and its first repairers contact notes, I can see that  after he complained  
some of the communication with Mr S wasnt of a satisfactory standard.
Mr S hasnt provided enough detail of his earnings to show that RSA is responsible for a loss 
of earnings.From what Ive seen, I dont consider that RSA caused any unreasonable delay to the claim 
against the third party.
Keeping in mind the policy term, I dont find it unusual or unfair or unreasonable that RSA or 
its solicitors used Mr Ss name in the claim against the third party. As the claim is for the 
court to decide, I will make no findings about the amount of the claim.
RSAs final response in July 2021 included the following:
Im sorry for our poor service, however, I feel the offer made of £50 is fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances.
I have awarded a further £250 for the poor repairs carried out on your van, and the 
lack of customer service you received from [the first repairer]. This amount includes 
an inconvenience payment for the 3 hours you took, to take your van back to them 
and I have included a fuel allowance for the 108-mile journey you took.  The payment 
also takes into consideration the delay in the rectification of repairs process and the 
repairer networks failure to update you with the present position.  Im sorry youve 
had to chase us for updates.
In my view, I should only consider points of complaint Mr S had made to RSA before its final 
response. Subject to that, Ive thought about whether RSAs offers of £50.00 and £250.00 - 
taken together - were fair and reasonable compensation. 
I dont under-estimate the impact on Mr S. That included his unease at driving a van with 
unsatisfactory repairs. But overall Im satisfied that £300.00 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. If Mr S wishes to accept that offer, he should contact RSA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance plc to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman