DRN-2450114
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt close his account.
What happened
Mr O says he asked HSBC to close his account on a number of occasions. He says the 
account was a flexible loan account and if HSBC had done more to close it then he wouldnt 
have continued to use the account. Mr O would like HSBC to repay the loan amount and 
apply 8% interest to that amount.
HSBC says it has limited information about Mr Os account but says he did try and close the 
account on two occasions but on each occasion, there was a balance on the account that 
prevented it. HSBC has offered Mr O a gesture of goodwill payment of £150.
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the main part of the 
complaint. The investigator thought Mr O had used the account and had the benefit of the 
money and so it would be unfair to order HSBC to refund it. The investigator thought the 
gesture of goodwill payment fair and reasonable.
Mr O doesnt accept that view and in summary says he should be paid more compensation 
and says HSBC deliberately didnt close the account so that he would use it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr O will be disappointed by my decision.
I think on balance it likely that the reason the account could not be closed was due to there 
being a balance on it. So, I dont think HSBC made a mistake or acted unfairly by not closing 
the account in those circumstances. In any event I find it was Mr Os decision to continue to 
use the account and that he had the benefit of the money. Im satisfied that it would be unfair 
for HSBC to refund that money and pay Mr O interest on it.
I dont think it likely that HSBC deliberately refused to close the account so that Mr O would 
continue to use it. And I think Mr O could have given written notice to HSBC that he wanted 
the account to close and make sure there was a nil balance.
I can see that HSBC has offered a gesture of goodwill payment of £150 in circumstances 
where I dont think it has made a mistake or acted unfairly. It is not clear, but HSBC may 
take the view it could have given Mr O a more detailed explanation why the account couldnt 
be closed and that is why it offered the goodwill payment. In those circumstances I am sure 
that offer remains open for Mr O to accept, but I appreciate how strongly he feels about what 
has taken place and so I will leave it to him to decide if he wishes to accept it.
Overall, I find HSBC has fairly explained why it couldnt close the account and that it was Mr 
Os decision to continue to use it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman