DRN-4037181
The complaint
Ms W as Executor of the estate of Mr B, her late brother, says the advice given and the 
arrangements made by Pension Advice Specialists Limited (PAS), to transfer his defined 
benefit (DB) pensions into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Davies & Co 
Pensions Limited (DAC) and the associated investments was unsuitable.
Mr Bs estate is represented by Rightside Financial Services Limited (RFS).
What happened
Mr B had been considering his pension arrangements in 2018. He was 54 at the time and his 
health meant he was no longer able to work. He was introduced to Walker Murray Limited 
(WML) to get advice about his pensions.
WML advised Mr B to switch two of his personal pension plans into a SIPP with DAC and 
invest the funds according to his assessed attitude to risk. He accepted the 
recommendations and in June and July 2018 a total of about £52,500 was moved into his 
new pension.
Mr B was also a member of a DB scheme with a former employer. Hed joined that company 
in 1980, but his pensionable service appears to have begun in 1991 and ended in 1994 
when he left the organisation. The scheme had a normal retirement date (NRD) of when he 
reached 60.
WML wasnt qualified to provide Mr B with advice about transferring from a DB scheme 
pension. So, after a failed referral to another firm which was in regulatory difficulty, it put him 
in contact with PAS.
PAS began to gather information from Mr B about his objectives, circumstances and attitude 
to risk in August 2018. Its recorded that his top three priorities were: the ability to retire 
early; maximising tax-free cash (TFC); and having the opportunity for investment growth. He 
also ranked highly, flexibility to control his retirement income, tax-planning and consolidation 
of his pension provision.
Mr B was in poor health. He was on medication for his conditions, but was no longer able to 
work. He said he didnt have much choice other than to retire early. And he said his life-
expectancy was reduced as a result of his chronic conditions.
Mr B was single. He had no financial dependents. Mr B was expecting to move to Spain. He 
was already spending more time there. He hoped that the change in lifestyle and climate 
would help with his health.
Leaving aside his accommodation costs in Spain (which he said would be met by renting out 
his home in the UK), Mr B wanted about £2,000 a month to live on. Half of this he was 
receiving from his portfolio of rental properties. But the other half which came from surplus 
cash in his limited company, wouldnt be available after March 2019. He had an income gap 
to fill of around £1,000 a month.
Mr Bs pension provision at the time he received advice from PAS included his DAC SIPP, 
which hed switched £52,500 into from his personal pensions. To this, in August 2018 he 
made contributions of £40,000.
In November 2018 Mr B wrote to his DB scheme administrator asking for a transfer 
valuation. It informed him the value of his annual pension on 5 April 2019 would be £2,600. It 
offered him a cash equivalent value (CETV) if he were to transfer his pension, of just over 
£101,000.
PAS produced a suitability report for Mr B dated 25 January 2019. This recorded his 
assessed attitude to risk (ATR) as high-medium or 6 out of 10 where 1 would be lowest and 
10 highest. And his capacity for loss, when considering his income requirements in 
retirement and his overall assets was said by PAS to be low/medium.
PAS went on to recommend that Mr B transfer his DB pension into his DAC SIPP and to 
invest the funds according to his ATR, specifically through the Cornhill Moderately 
Adventurous fund.
Mr B accepted PASs recommendations. On 11 February 2019 his DB funds were received 
by his SIPP. And on 22 February 2019 he started taking benefits from his pension. He took 
TFC of around £51,000.
RFS complained to PAS in July 2021 about what had happened to Mr B in 2019. It raised 
several concerns, including in the following terms:
You recommended he sacrifice the invaluable guarantees his existing pension provided for 
a high risk speculative approach with assets that were not fully protected, potentially esoteric 
and illiquid.
Similarly, whilst identifying that Walker Murray were not UK authorised to advise Mr B in 
respect of pension transfer business it is apparent that you did not consider the funds that 
they were recommending. In so doing appropriateness of the transfer could not be 
reasonably determined as being suitable advice.
It is accepted that transferring a defined benefit pension should be regarded as unsuitable 
and whilst your suitability report attempts to outline all considerations Mr B [should] make 
before transfer there appear to be several key considerations that have been overlooked 
making your recommendation unsuitable.
Regulatory principles of business 2 & 4 & 6 require you to ensure your clients best interests 
are catered for. Without sight of the recommended fund details being recommended or Mr 
Bs tax position as an ex Pat it is impossible to determine whether the advice met his needs 
and objectives.
PAS rejected the complaint brought by RFS. It outlined how it worked with WML and their 
respective roles. It considered the advice it had given Mr B was suitable given his objectives 
and in his circumstances. RFS disagreed and brought the case to this Service.
An Investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and recommended it should be upheld. He 
didnt think PAS had made a case that there were compelling reasons for him to transfer his 
DB pension. He concluded Mr B was likely to receive a substantially lower overall value from 
his new arrangements than his DB scheme provided for in retirement.
Sadly, Mr B passed away in September 2022. His estate decided it wanted to continue to 
pursue his case. After this PAS made an offer of £5,000 in order to bring matters to a full and 
final settlement. It said that in the circumstances, even if it accepted the Investigators view, the position was one of nil loss. RFS on behalf of the estate rejected the offer and requested 
a loss calculation using the proper FCA methodology.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigator, the complaint taken on by Mr Bs estate 
was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. Im 
grateful to both parties for their further submissions, which Ive considered in arriving at this 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Bs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by PAS for Mr B. The FCA Handbook contains 11 Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control 
its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like PAS. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this complaint.
At the time of the advice PAS gave Mr B, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from a DB scheme:
(2) When a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail client who is, or is eligible 
to be, a member of a pension scheme with safeguarded benefits and who is considering 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable.(3) A firm should only consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the 
retail clients best interests.
To do this PAS had to take into account a range of factors including Mr Bs intentions for 
accessing his pension benefits; his attitude to and understanding of the risks of both giving 
up his safeguarded benefits and of making investments; his realistic income requirements in 
retirement; and alternative ways in which his objectives could be achieved without 
transferring from his DB scheme.
Under COBS 19.1.2B, PAS was required to conduct an appropriate pension transfer 
analysis. It had to:
(1) Assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available under the ceding arrangement;
(2) Compare (1) with those benefits and options available under the proposed arrangement; 
and
(4) Undertake the analysis in (1), (2) and (3) in accordance with COBS 19 Annex 4A and 
COBS 19 Annex 4C.
COBS 19.1.3A required PAS to compare the transfer valued offered by Mr Bs DB scheme 
with the estimated value needed at the time of the advice to purchase the future income 
benefits available under his existing scheme using a pension annuity. It had to inform him of 
such.
COBS 2.1.1 R required a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client, in relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail 
client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging (bringing 
about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R set out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Did PAS meet the regulatory obligations placed on it in its dealings with Mr B?
This is a finely balanced decision. But Ive concluded PAS didnt meet the regulatory 
threshold in this case. Ill explain why.
There are a number of documents relating to PASs transaction with Mr B that are important 
to my consideration, these include the fact-find, the attitude to risk questionnaire, the pension transfer analysis report, pension illustrations and the suitability report. Ive also 
listened carefully to the telephone conversation Mr B had with PAS in January 2019.
Mr Bs top three priorities for retirement planning were: the ability to retire early; maximising 
his tax-free cash (TFC); and having the opportunity for investment growth. 
In a telephone conversation Mr B had with PAS in January 2019 he reported that he was in 
poor health. Hed suffered rheumatoid arthritis from an early age, he had heart disease, 
hypertension and fibromyalgia. He was on medication for his conditions, but was no longer 
able to hold down a job. He had reduced mobility and found it difficult to drive. He said he 
didnt have much choice other than to retire early. And he said his life-expectancy was 15 
years less than it would otherwise have been.
Mr B was single. He had no financial dependents. He was expecting to move to Spain. He 
was already spending more time there. He hoped the change in lifestyle and climate would 
help with his health.
Although Mr B had stopped working, he had monthly income from three rental properties of 
£1,050. He was expecting to rent a property in Spain, but considered the cost of this would 
be offset by his plan to rent out his own home. He was also taking around £1,000 a month 
from his limited company which still had a cash balance. He expected this to continue until 
March 2019.
As Mr B wanted a monthly income of around £2,000 to live on (excluding his accommodation 
costs, as already taken into account), he needed to plug an income gap of around £1,000 a 
month as part of any pension arrangement proposals.
Mr Bs home was worth £145,000 and this had an outstanding repayment mortgage of about 
£95,000 which was due to be repaid by 2030. He had three rental properties which it seems 
were unencumbered. These had a combined value of £290,000. He had a credit card debt of 
£2,000. He had savings of £10,000. And he had around £20,000 residual cash in his 
business.
PAS needed to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr B about what was in his 
best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to 
provide for an income in retirement. And when early access and a transfer is recommended, 
there need to be compelling reasons.
It was PASs role to discern what Mr Bs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. I dont think it 
demonstrably met these obligations because it ended up recommending the transfer to him.
From the information Ive seen and having listened to the call between PAS and Mr B, Im 
satisfied the objectives recorded for his retirement were genuine and specific to his 
circumstances at the time. I think that generally it did a reasonable job. However, there were 
some weaknesses which ultimately undermined its approach. Ill explore these in more 
detail.
Concerning Mr Bs health. I think this is a key issue in this case. The information he gave 
PAS about his chronic health conditions was important. And its proper for this to have been 
considered in arriving at its recommendation for his retirement arrangements. But I think it 
needed to get to the bottom of his situation.
In responding to my provisional decision PAS said:Whilst we accept hindsight cannot be used to justify our advice, the passing of Mr B is clear 
evidence that our assessment of Mr Bs position was correct and accurate. We feel that, not 
obtaining medical evidence or an expert opinion, does not make our advice unsuitable. Mr B 
was in poor health and, the lack of an expert opinion, does not change that fact, which has 
sadly played out in the events following the advice that we provided. We provided what we 
deem to be, suitable advice, based on the clients position at the time of the advice, which 
later proved to be correct.
I agree with PAS on the need to avoid hindsight. Its interesting that in responding to RFSs 
complaint letter, specifically concerning the matter about whether it had explored what early 
and ill-health retirement options were available from Mr Bs DB scheme, PAS said:
Whilst the client had disclosed health conditions, which we acknowledge could impact 
quality of life, there was no medical evidence provided by the client to indicate that he was 
terminally ill or had a reduced life expectancy. It is unlikely that a scheme trustee would 
provide an ill-health pension or payment without medical evidence from a medical 
practitioner that the client had a reduced life expectancy or was terminally ill.
I agree with PASs response on this matter. We know Mr B thought his life expectancy had 
been reduced by 15 years because of his health conditions. It follows I remain of the view 
PAS shouldve sought his authority to gain expert opinion from a health professional involved 
in his care - if such wasnt already available to hand - about whether his understanding of his 
outlook was accurate. Instead it simply noted it hadnt seen any medical evidence for what 
hed told it.
Ive no doubt Mr B had a good understanding of his medical conditions. Hed been living with 
some of them for many years. But it wasnt safe for PAS to accept his interpretation of what 
it meant for his life expectancy. It needed to have done more due diligence on what it was 
being told.
Getting to the bottom of this was key to weighing matters such as how long any transferred 
benefits would likely need to last. Achieving an understanding of the value to him of the 
CETV on offer from his DB scheme. How these matters compared with any ill-health and 
early retirement provisions available through the scheme. And the relative merits for different 
options on death benefits in the event of his passing.
For example, Mr B thought the CETV of £101,000 hed been offered by his DB scheme to 
transfer his pension looked very attractive. It represented around 39 times the annual 
pension he wouldve accrued up until April 2019. But this didnt take account of the fact that 
his pension would be increased each year. And transfer values can fluctuate significantly, it 
wasnt possible to know whether a future offer would be more or less.
The way PAS tried to describe the value of the CETV to Mr B was better. In its suitability 
report it said:
Your scheme is offering an income of £3,274 at age 60, and when I consider weighed 
escalation of 3.28% itll take until year 21 to receive the value of the CETV. Youll be 81 
which is your estimated life expectancy from the ONS, however health hasnt been factored 
into this age, and you have stated your life expectancy has been reduced by 15 years, which 
means you may not benefit from the value of the CETV when paid as income. Our cash flow 
forecasts also support this.
This makes clear how crucial understanding Mr Bs life expectancy was.
Another example of why PAS needed to do more to get to the bottom of Mr Bs health 
situation relates to death benefits. The terms and conditions of his DB scheme state:Death after leaving but before retirement - Your deferred pension is cancelled if you die 
before payment begins. However, a dependants pension and/or child allowances may be 
paid. If there are no dependants or children, a lump sum representing your contributions, 
plus interest, will be paid. Interest is based on inflation, up to a maximum of 5% p.a
Death after retirement - Your pension is only paid for your lifetime, so it ends when you die. 
However, a dependants pension and/or child allowances may be paid. If no dependants 
pension or child allowance is payable, a lump sum may be paid if you die within 5 years of 
retirement. The lump sum is the balance of the payments that would have been made to you 
up to age 75, if you had been retired for five years. We take your annual pension on the day 
you retired, ignoring any amount you swapped for a lump sum, and multiply this by five. We 
then deduct the total of the pension instalments actually paid to you and the lump sum you 
received at retirement. The balance, if any, is paid as a lump sum
We know Mr B didnt have a partner, nor any financial dependents. So this wasnt a priority 
area for him. That said he told PAS that in the event of his passing he would like his mother 
and/or sisters to benefit from any residual funds. If his health conditions had impacted on his 
life expectancy to the extent he thought, the transfer out of the DB scheme would have been 
the only way he couldve passed benefits to them.
Mr B wanted any residual benefits from his pension pot to be available to close relatives. 
Normally this would be a second order consideration  pensions are to provide an income in 
retirement. But if he had a significantly reduced life expectancy then this matter can assume 
more significance. The problem for PAS remains its lack of due diligence about his situation.
Turning to the financial case for transferring Mr Bs DB pension. The critical yield is the level 
of return his new pension plan wouldve needed to have achieved in order for the transfer of 
his DB scheme to match his pension benefits at his NRD (aged 60). The pension transfer 
report indicated that an annual return of between 11.3% and 14% would be required 
(depending on whether he took TFC).
PASs advice was given during the period when this Service published 'discount rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Mr Bs case.
So, the critical yield required to match Mr Bs DB scheme was 11.3-14%. When the advice 
was given, the relevant discount rate was 5.6% for someone with 4 years to retirement. The 
comparable growth rates this Service used were based on a typical investment spread 
across shares and bonds.
While its arguable, given Mr Bs assessed medium-high attitude to risk, reaching a return 
higher than the discount rate was achievable, I dont think that wouldve been to the extent 
required to meet the critical yield here. Its of note at the time industry projection rates for 
growth were 2% (lower), 5% (medium) and 8% (upper).
PAS also obtained a transfer value comparator. This showed s a comparison of the Cash 
Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) and the estimated cost of acquiring the same promised 
income in a Defined Contribution scheme. This suggested it would cost Mr B £166,000 to 
secure a comparable pension from an insurer. This was about £65,000 less than the CETV 
on offer.
There clearly wasnt a sound financial case for transfer in normal circumstances. And in 
responding to the Investigators view PAS noted that Mr Bs situation wasnt normal:Mr B wanted to retire at age 55, therefore the benefits from the company scheme would 
likely have seen a 20% reduction in benefits due to the early retirement factor. I believe Mr B 
was fully aware in the telephone call of the implications of the pension transfer.
We would like to highlight some key direct quotes from this telephone call, regarding Mr Bs 
health:
-Im no longer fit enough to hold down a full time-job
-It is very early to retire, but Ive not really got much choice
-I do have a significant reduced life expectancy with the health conditions that Ive 
got
-In relation to a guaranteed income for life; Yeah, I do understand that but, in my 
circumstances, I dont think its a good fit, I really dont.
-In relation to his life expectancy; Well, its a fact of life, isnt it? Fifteen years they 
reckon. Yeah. Well, its, because its, well I have a heart condition and rheumatoid 
arthritis and hyper-tension and fibromyalgia.
Given the importance of the above, we do not feel this has been given due consideration 
when forming your opinion. Mr Bs health was an important factor in the recommendation
made.
I think theres merit in PASs central argument here. Mr Bs health status was an important 
factor. The problem it has is that it failed to explore this fully. It didnt have an expert view of 
the impact of his health conditions on his life expectancy. And so it couldnt advise him 
properly about his income requirements for retirement.
Turning to PASs assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk. I think there are problems with its 
approach. His responses to the questionnaire led to the rating of 6 out of 10 (high-medium). 
It defined this in the following terms:
A 'high medium' risk profile shows that your willingness and ability to accept investment risk 
is slightly above average. A portfolio that matches this risk profile is likely to experience 
some significant rises and falls in value. So while there is good potential for returns from 
your investment to match or go above the rate of inflation (in other words, the rate at which 
the prices of goods and services rise), you also need to accept that your investment is likely 
to fall in value from time to time, particularly in the short term.
A portfolio for this risk profile is most likely to contain mainly medium- and high-risk 
investments, including Sterling corporate bonds and global bonds including higher income 
types as well as Property and shares. The shares are expected to be held mainly in the UK 
and other developed markets, but there is also likely to be some in higher-risk emerging 
markets. As a result, you should always check that you are comfortable with what's 
included.
While I dont doubt his responses as fed into the risk outlook process generated this rating, I 
wouldve like to have seen evidence of test and challenge here. I note the majority of his 
responses were neither agree nor disagree. When exploring matters such as his outlook on 
investment fluctuation, incurring losses, choosing steady returns over investments with 
potential to rise significantly in value and a preference for certainty, it needed to get under 
the skin better of what Mr B was saying.
In the conversation between Mr B and PASs adviser in January 2019, he does openly 
question whether the risk assessment conducted earlier still represented his outlook. PAS 
captured part of that conversation in its suitability report in the following terms:You agreed with your ATR being 6, however may wish to reduce your stock market 
exposure over the years to reduce the volatility and would discuss this each year during your 
annual reviews. You are wary in relation to having all your 'eggs in one basket'
The conversation PAS had with Mr B was a good opportunity for it to have delved deeper. I 
think the conversation made clear he was somewhat uncertain about his investment 
exposure. But the adviser didnt explore this in the depth I think wouldve been appropriate. 
So it failed in its duty of care towards him.
Further, I note that the investment portfolio Mr B ended up with holdings in was classified as 
moderately adventurous. This meant his pension pot was targeting an equity content of 
around 77%.
On the other hand, its clear from the conversation Mr B had with PAS he had a clear idea 
about how he was offsetting some of his investment risk through taking maximum TFC (25% 
of his pension provision) and using this for 3-4 years to help meet his monthly retirement 
income gap. He noted as well as being used to support his expenditure, any balance could 
be placed in liquid and low risk near cash assets, such as an Individual Savings Account 
(ISA).
PAS assessed Mr Bs capacity for loss as low/medium. This strikes me as a somewhat 
broad rating. His recorded requirements in retirement were relatively modest. He had a 
property portfolio, from which he derived half his income. He owned his own home, which he 
planned to rent out to offset his rental costs in Spain. Looking forward his mortgage was due 
to end in 2030 and he was also entitled to a state pension at 67. So, I think he had a limited 
capacity for loss.
PAS says it gave Mr B all the necessary risk warnings indicating he was required to take 
responsibility for the decision to transfer. While I think he wouldve understood those 
warnings, disclosure of risks doesnt of itself make the advice suitable.
Given the available evidence, I think PASs recommendations on investment exposed Mr B 
to too much risk given his outlook and capacity for loss.
I also have concerns about PASs recommendation for Mr B to place his DB funds in a SIPP 
with DAC. It said of the provider:
DAC Pensions Limited (Davies & Co) is a boutique pension firm based in Cambridgeshire. 
They are authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to operate Self Invested Personal 
Pensions (SIPPs) and they also provide specialist Trustee and Administration services for 
Small Self-Administered Schemes (SSASs).
Davies & Co provide solutions and expert guidance to help customers make the most of 
their pensions. Their mission is to guide customers on their journey to an enjoyable 
retirement. They are committed to providing our customers with an exceptional, personal 
service, second to none in the industry.
Davies & Co work closely with customers and their advisers to understand their unique 
requirements and create a bespoke arrangement, taking advantage of all the benefits that 
current legislation allows. Their dedicated and knowledgeable team of pension professionals 
are there for customers at every turn and help them stay on track.
DAC had only been a regulated provider since September 2017. It didnt have a track record. 
Ive seen no evidence of the due diligence PAS was required to have carried out on DAC. 
Its unclear why a boutique pension firm was suited to Mr Bs standard requirements. It was likely to be a more specialist and expensive SIPP provider compared to more established 
and mainstream providers.
Whatever the answers here, I dont think it was sufficient for PAS to simply endorse WMLs 
previous recommendations to Mr B to use DAC. This was an opportunity for it to have 
highlighted potential issues with, and alternatives to, the SIPP that had already been 
established.
I note that PAS hasnt addressed these matters in its response to my provisional decision. 
And Ive found that its recommendations to Mr B to transfer his DB pension to a DAC SIPP 
and invest in line with its assessment of his attitude to risk was unsuitable.
RFS has also questioned the suitability of PASs advice given Mr Bs intention to reside in 
Spain. From correspondence at the time, and when he brought his complaint to this Service 
Mr B gave a UK address. But its also clear from the conversation he had with PAS at the 
time of the advice he was planning to spend a significant amount of his time overseas. So, 
the evidence on file looks both ways. And perhaps this is reflective of a situation where he 
hadnt made up his mind fully.
Clearly the UK and Spain have different tax regimes, as well as double-taxation 
agreements. The pros and cons of taking his pension in the UK versus Spain and the 
associated arrangements were not explored in the suitability report PAS produced for Mr B. 
Im also conscious that elements of Brexit and the status of overseas nationals was still 
being finalised at the time.
While PAS didnt explore these matters, I think Mr B wouldve been aware of the limitations 
of its advice. I say this because on the first page of its suitability report it said the following in 
bold type:
Please note however that PAS are not overseas tax specialists and are unable to advise on 
the tax considerations of a DB pension transfer if you are resident outside the UK. You 
should seek further advice in this area from Walker Murray or a tax specialist in your country 
of residence.
I think this was a clear statement about the scope of the advice PAS had provided.
In summary, Ive concluded PASs failure to get to the bottom of Mr Bs health situation and 
secure an expert opinion about the impact on his life expectancy was a fundamental flaw in 
its advice. Without such information it didnt reach the threshold, based on contemporaneous 
evidence, to clearly demonstrate that the transfer of his DB pension was in his best interests.
Ive also set out my concerns about PASs approach on assessing Mr Bs attitude to risk and 
the consequent investments it recommended. And the appropriateness of the SIPP provider 
it said he should use.
So, on balance, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its fair and reasonable 
to uphold this complaint against PAS and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding this case. So, the estate of Mr B would need to be returned to the position it 
wouldve been in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the 
failures which I hold Pension Advice Specialists Limited responsible for.Im grateful to Pension Advice Specialists Limited for supplying its own redress calculations, 
which it says evidence that in the circumstances theres been no financial loss to Mr Bs 
estate as a result of its advice. It acknowledges the calculations werent carried out in 
accordance with the relevant FCA guidance. I understand a copy of those calculations were 
shared with RFS but it wanted an assessment completed using the appropriate FCA 
provisions.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. RFS has indicated a 
preference for redress to be calculated according to the new rules. And in any event these 
come into effect on 1 April 2023.
I consider Mr B wouldve remained in his DB scheme. Pension Advice Specialists Limited 
should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
methodology, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of the estate of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
I should manage the expectations of Mr Bs estate at this point. As has previously been 
established, Mr B didnt have a partner or any financial dependents. And in the sad 
circumstances of his passing, the flow of benefits he wouldve received from his DB scheme 
would necessarily have been limited. He also took benefits from his new arrangements, 
which will need to be taken into account.
I think its fair to assume Mr B wouldve taken his DB pension benefits early from February 
2019, consistent with his established needs at the time of the advice and with what he 
actually did with his transferred benefits.
RFS and the estate of Mr B will need to provide Pension Advice Specialists Limited with any 
information it reasonably requires about Mr Bs SIPP transactions and status in order to 
ensure its calculations can be completed accurately. It will not be responsible for any delays 
in achieving such.
Pension Advice Specialists Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the DB 
scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should be paid to 
Mr Bs estate. It should be paid as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from any loss 
adequately reflects this.
Any compensation amount must where possible be paid to the estate of Mr B within 90 days 
of the date Pension Advice Specialists Limited receives notification of its acceptance of my 
final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes PAS to settle.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pension Advice Specialists Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr Bs estate how much has been taken 
off. It should give it a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if it asks for one, so it can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding this case. I require Pension Advice Specialists 
Limited to carry out a calculation as directed and if a loss is established to pay such to Mr 
Bs estate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman