DRN-3682523
The complaint
Miss A complains that Monzo closed her account and registered a Cifas marker against her 
without due cause. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat every 
detail here. But in summary, in April 2021, a payment was sent to Miss As account totalling 
£500. On the same day, after the payment was received, two payments left Miss As account 
and were sent to a money remittance account she held for approximately £450, and to an 
online merchant for approximately £40. There were also online banking logins before and 
after the payment came into her account. The sending bank later reported to Monzo that 
their customer had notified them that the payment was sent as the result of a scam. Monzo 
took the decision to close Miss As account and to register a Cifas fraud prevention marker 
against her name. 
Miss A said that she was not aware of the payment that came into her account, and she did 
not know the sender. She said she likely made the payment to the money remittance service 
as she used it to send money to her daughter abroad. She said alternatively it could have 
been her then-partner who sent the payment as he had access to her phone and he knew 
the code to get into it, so he could get into her Monzo application. The transfer through her 
money remittance account also appeared to have gone to a friend of her ex-partner, who 
she had lost touch with since they broke up. She denied any involvement in any scams. Miss 
A was asked if she had any further information and details of the extent of her partners use 
of her account, she said she had nothing further to add. 
Miss A said she found out about the Cifas marker after being rejected for an account with 
another bank. She complained to Monzo, who declined to remove the marker. They 
explained this was because they received the report of fraudulent funds coming into her 
account, and following on from this they had correctly followed their procedures and adhered 
to their regulatory obligations. 
Miss A was unhappy with Monzos response to her complaint, so she brought her complaint 
to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened and did not recommend that Miss 
As complaint be upheld. This is because they felt it was most likely Miss A had authorised 
the activity on her account, and therefore must have known about the funds that came into 
her account at the time. So, they thought that Monzo had met their evidential burden such as 
to register Miss A with Cifas. Miss A remained unhappy with the outcome. She said that she 
understood our investigators decision and agreed with it. She explained she wanted to be 
honest with our investigator about the situation, and said that she had been desperate as 
she had been out of work for three months and he said she could keep some money if she 
received funds and sent them on via the money remittance service on his behalf. She said 
she did not know they were fraudulent funds as she did not know he was involved in fraud. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss As change in testimony, but said it did not change their 
opinion as they were not persuaded that she was unaware of the funds that came into her 
account, nor that she had not consented to the payments out of the account. They thought 
that Miss A was aware that the payment was not legitimate, and that her account was used 
for fraudulent activity, so they remained of the opinion that Monzo had acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances. Miss A remained unhappy, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons. 
The type of Cifas marker that Monzo asked Cifas to apply here is for misuse of facility  
relating to the account being used to receive and send on fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, Monzo are not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss A is 
guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than 
mere suspicion or concern that such an offence took place. Cifas guidance said: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
So, the relevant findings for me to make are whether I believe there is sufficient evidence to 
conclude that on balance, the money sent to Miss M was as the result of a fraud, and that 
she was deliberately dishonest in relation to this, such that Monzo fairly and reasonably 
escalated their concerns to Cifas. I do think that Monzo were entitled to do so, I will explain 
why. 
It is not in dispute that Miss As account was used to receive and send on fraudulent funds. 
The sending account holder complained that they were tricked into sending the funds as the 
result of a scam. Miss A denies any knowledge of this, but she does not refute that this 
happened nor does she claim to have had any legitimate claim to those funds. So what is left 
for me to decide is whether on balance I think that it is most likely that Miss A was involved 
in the receipt and sending on of these funds  and whether she was deliberately dishonest in 
her actions with regards to these funds. And I think it is most likely she was. I say this 
because: 
Miss As original version of events was that she had no idea who sent the funds into 
the account, and that she had not been involved in this in any way. She was invited 
to give further details about her partner using her account, but she declined to do so 
at this time. She simply maintained that she was not responsible for receiving the 
fraudulent funds. 
I agree with our investigators opinion that this story did not add up. This is because 
Miss A accepted she most likely made the £450 payment via the money remittance 
service, and because Monzos technical evidence shows that Miss A was logged on 
after the payment came in. This showed that it was most likely she was aware of the 
funds coming into her account, as she would have seen them at this time. The funds 
were then sent on using another account in her name, and to a known third party.  
It was only after receiving our investigators robust explanation for why her version of 
events did not appear to add up, that Miss A changed her testimony. She said that 
he  who I assume refers to her partner  had said she could keep the change if she 
sent the funds on from her money remittance account. So it is clear she was 
expecting the funds and authorized the payments out of her account on the same 
day, after all. The change came to roughly £50. So, from Miss As own testimony it 
is clear that she did receive and send on fraudulent funds, and profit from doing so. 
Miss A denies that she was aware that they were fraudulent funds  so she implies she was not deliberately dishonest in her actions relating to these funds. But on 
balance, I dont think that is the most likely scenario here. I say this because she has 
been consistent in her story until she received our investigators view which clearly 
explained that there were holes in this story. It is unclear why she would not have 
been honest if she had nothing to hide. She was given the opportunity to give more 
detail on her partners access to her account, and it seems that if he was the only 
one at fault here she could have explained this to our service sooner. 
Further, whilst it is not impossible, I find it highly unlikely that someone would allow 
another person to use their account in this way without asking further questions. It is 
unclear why the funds would have been sent from an account in a name she did not 
know, or why she got to keep £50 for simply sending funds on. She has said her 
partners money remittance service account had been blocked  but this in and of 
itself would appear suspicious to a lot of people. So I think that it is most likely that 
either Miss A did know the funds were coming from illegitimate sources, or she chose 
not to ask questions about the provenance of these funds because she had 
suspicions that they were illegitimate  and I am afraid that either way this is enough 
for me to conclude that she was deliberately dishonest in regards to her actions 
around these funds. I am sorry to hear that she was in a difficult financial position at 
the time, but this is not an excuse for such a misuse of facility such that I can 
reasonably ask Monzo to remove the marker. 
When considering all of this, I dont think either version of events that Miss A has given to 
this service are what most likely happened here. I am of the opinion that it is most likely that 
Miss A was complicit in the receiving of fraudulent payments. And she did not need to be 
aware of the exact provenance of the funds for me to make these findings, just that it was 
likely they were not legitimately come by. And so, it follows that Monzo have met the 
requirements to refer her to Cifas and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman