DRN-3279714
The complaint
Mr O complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr O is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around December 2016, Mr O was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr O decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In October 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Os behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr O to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr O or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr O and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Mr O the quotation document during the meeting, 
and he had not had the chance to read it before he signed it;
a copy of the quotation was only sent to him after he had signed it and signed the 
loan agreement;
being satisfied with what he had been told in the sales meeting, Mr O had not thought 
it necessary to rely on what the quotation said;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law,1
the quote contained contradictory information, as in one place it says that the 
benefits of the system would pay for the loan in 11 years, but in another place it 
suggests this would take 17 years;
this contradictory information was confusing, as Mr O could have interpreted the 11 
1 Citing Chitty on Contracts (32nd edition), paragraph 7-043 (corresponding to para. 9-051, 34th ed.).
years as the time it would take to pay off the loan;
the quote never gives the total amount repayable under the loan, and only ever gives 
the cash price of the system.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr O paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr O could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr O and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Os recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mr O agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative, along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr O simply took the 
salesmans word for it when he was told that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of 
equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing him a penny, without at 
any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that Mr O has 
simply forgotten seeing the quote over the four years between the sale and the bringing of his claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mr O agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments
Mr O has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr O has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr O could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr O could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £127.04.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr O could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £225.97 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr O, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £513.81. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr O entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £81.25. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £80.66, but the difference  59p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £81.25, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. As can be seen below, this 
gives a negative value for the first 11 years of the loan.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr O could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be enough to cover the monthly loan 
repayments for the first 11 years. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr O that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 59p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr O, so Im 
satisfied that the salesman drew it to his attention.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments, resulting in a shortfall for 11 years.
That is far from the same thing as saying that it would take 11 years to pay off the loan, 
rather than 15 years. Im satisfied that this table makes it quite clear that it would take 180 
months, or 15 years, to pay off the loan, and not 11 years. The loan agreement is also clear 
about the loan period being 15 years.
However, I do accept that Mr O was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the performance over 25 years. 
This shows that after 11 years the overall benefits that Mr O could expect to receive would 
have exceeded the cash price of the system.
The print at the bottom reads The estimated payback time is based on cash purchase. The 
payback time will fluctuate depending on any finance taken against the system.
The total amount repayable under the loan agreement (which is more than the cash price) 
does not appear in the quote. But I am satisfied that the quote does make it clear that in 
each place where it sets out the price of the system, it is referring only to the cash price, not 
to the cost of the finance.
The CMC has referred to three other instances where the cash price is referred to in the 
quote (pages 5, 9 and 19), and in each of these three places it gives the figure, which is 
£7,704. But as the quote is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as set 
out in the orange 180 months table above, Im satisfied that the quote made it clear that the 
system would cost Mr O more than the cash price as he had decided to pay for it with an 
interest bearing loan.2
This is stated explicitly on page 9, in the Putting it all together section, like this:
This also makes it clear that the payback time of 11 years refers to how long it will take for 
the system to fund the cash price, not the finance charge.
This 11 year period may be compared and contrasted with the 17 year period, referred to in 
the adjudicators opinion and in the CMCs subsequent submissions, which was worked out 
as follows.
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the performance of the system over 25 years. This 
shows that by the end of year 17 the overall benefits that Mr O could expect to receive would 
have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £14,618.80. (Rather 
than set out the whole table, I will present an excerpt showing years 1, 16 and 17.)
As I have said already, I accept that the total amount repayable under the loan agreement 
does not appear in the quote. Mr O would have had to refer to the loan agreement to see 
this figure, and then compare it with the table in the quote to find out how long it would take 
for the system to cover this amount. But I think the quote does make it clear, by itself, that 
the payback period for the cash price was expected to be 11 years, and that the self-funding 
period for the loan would be longer than that. I do not agree with the CMCs suggestion that 
this is contradictory information. Nor do I agree with its submission that Mr O would have 
confused the 11 year payback period with the time it would take to recover the cost of the 
loan.
So Im satisfied that P told Mr O that the system would pay for itself  that is, its cash price  
in 11 years, and would pay for the loan in 17 years, as supported by the tables above. If 
2 The loan agreement also made this abundantly clear, as it sets out the cash price, the total charge 
for credit, and the total amount repayable (£14,618.80), as well as the interest rate.
those were untrue statements of fact, and if Im satisfied that this was what induced him to 
enter into the contract, and if he subsequently suffered a loss, then that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr O. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 1,935 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Os FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 1,852 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (95.7%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr O hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr O could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr O entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr O to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman