DRN-2835335
The complaint
Mr P says Santander UK plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
  
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1992. 
The policy provided cover for Mr P if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think it most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint because Santander recommended the policy to him 
but I dont think it was suitable. Mr P has said hed been self-employed since 1984. Hes 
provided pension evidence to show he was self-employed in the year following the sale of 
the policy. Given the nature and content of that evidence, on balance I think its likely that Mr 
P was also self-employed when the policy was sold.
The policy provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. But the policy summary 
Santander has provided says the self-employed were covered against accident and sickness 
only. 
As Ive already said, I think its likely that Mr P was self-employed when the policy was sold. 
And I dont think I can safely say that Santander wouldve pointed out to him that he would 
only be covered for accident and sickness. I think this wouldve mattered to Mr P because he 
was paying for cover that he was unlikely to be able to use. 
I dont think Mr P would have bought the policy if Santander had made it clear it wasnt 
suitable. So, I think Mr P has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
  
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr P in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should: 
 Pay Mr P the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
 Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK plc to pay compensation to 
Mr P in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman