DRN-1485646
 
The complaint
 Mrs M1, as the executrix, complains on behalf of the late Mrs M2s (her mothers) estate. 
Shes unhappy about the way that she was treated by Standard Life Assurance Limited (the 
business) when trying to establish what investments her mother held. And she doesnt feel 
that the business offer to pay £350 compensation for trouble and upset is reasonable. 
What happened
In November 2018, following the death of her mother, Mrs M1 contacted the business to 
obtain details of her mothers investments in the process of dealing with her estate. 
Mrs M1 made numerous calls between this time and February 2019. She was passed 
through several departments, promised call-backs that never materialised and generally 
received a poor service.  
It wasnt until she complained to the Bereavements Team Manager (BTM) that he took 
ownership of Mrs M1s request and provided her with the information she needed. 
But Mrs M1 is unhappy about unnecessarily being asked for a long lists of IDs and proof of 
signatures, and having to resend the confirmation certificate which her solicitor confirmed 
had already been sent.
The business upheld the complaint. In summary, it said:
It shouldve taken ownership of Mrs M1s request to find her mothers investments. 
Errors were made and Mrs M1 was referred to the wrong department  including 
being transferred several times and even being cut-off. 
It wasnt until 7 March 2019  some months after her initial contact  that ownership 
was taken of her enquiry, and a full breakdown of her mothers investments provided 
in due course.  
It accepts that Mrs M1 shouldnt have had to raise her issues with the BTM and that 
she was caused frustration. 
It increased its offer of compensation to £350 after speaking with Mrs M1.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business accepted that its service fell below the standard Mrs M1 could expect. 
Mrs M1 should have been dealt with efficiently, sympathetically, and it shouldve 
taken ownership of her complaint from the outset. 
It was however reasonable for the business to ask the relevant security questions to 
satisfy its own internal policy as well as legal obligations to make sure it was 
communicating with the right person. 
The £350 compensation offered by the business for trouble and upset was fair and 
reasonable.   Mrs M1 didnt agree with investigators conclusions. In summary, she said between 
November 2018 and February 2019 she made several calls, each lasting and hour. And on 
one occasion she was transferred several times. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. He also said that representatives arent generally entitled to payments for trouble and 
upset but as the business made the offer he thought it was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons.  Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
I think the business was right to uphold the complaint. But on balance I also think its offer of 
redress is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note Im sorry 
for Mrs M1s loss and I very much recognise her strength of feeling about this matter. 
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs M1 and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
 In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but, perhaps unlike a court or tribunal, Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
I note that the business took around three months to resolve the issues, and that it wasnt 
until early March 2019  when Mrs M1 complained to the BTM  that it took ownership of her 
request and provided a full list of investments held by her mother. 
Im aware the business accepts that its service fell below the reasonable standard that Mrs 
M1 could expect, and that its poor service caused her trouble and upset whilst trying to deal 
with her mothers estate. Suffice to say it wasnt a deliberate act on the part of the business 
to make things difficult for her, especially after losing her mother. 
I appreciate that Mrs M1 spent a number of hours trying to resolve the issues but the redress 
isnt just paid on the basis of the number of hours spent. Its based upon the impact the 
error/ shortcomings have had on the complainant. 
Its worth reiterating that our service doesnt generally award compensation to 
representatives bringing complaints on behalf of a third party or an estate. In this instance the business has taken the decision to pay Mrs M1  as executrix of her late mothers estate 
 compensation for trouble and upset cased. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the £350 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  Im aware 
that none of issues experienced by Mrs M1 resulted in any financial loss to her mothers 
estate.
I appreciate Mr M1 will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mrs M1 
what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think Standard Life Assurance Limiteds offer to pay Mrs M1 £350 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of X to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman