DRN-3396362
The complaint
Mr E presented his complaint to this service in his letters of 12 April 2021 (L1), 21 July 2021 
(L2) and 29 November 2021 (L3). Thereafter, and subsequent to a view on the complaint 
from one of our investigators, he made submissions to us dated 11 March 2022 (L4) and 25 
April 2022 (L5). His complaint is about his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), which 
he says was originally with a predecessor firm (from 2003) before it was taken over by AJ 
Bell Management Limited (AJB) around 2008/2009. His complaint mentions other AJB 
accounts held by his family members. He set out parts of his complaint in this context (and in 
the context of AJBs customers in general), but he is the sole complainant and the complaint 
is about trading in his SIPP account. 
Based on L1, L2 and L3, Mr E presented the following complaint issues/allegations:
AJB repeatedly failed to provide a working investment/trading platform. This 
happened on 21 September 2020, 3 November 2020, 9 November 2020 and 7 
January 2021  the dates  and this stopped his attempts to trade/invest in the SIPP 
on each date. It is more likely (than not) that there were other dates on which the 
platform did not function. [issue 1]
AJB failed to administer a proper complaints procedure. [issue 2]
AJB repeatedly made fraudulent misrepresentations in responses to his complaints. 
[issue 3]
AJB failed to comply with the Memorandum of Understanding between this service 
and The Pensions Ombudsman (TPO) by failing to guide him towards the correct 
service to which his complaints could be referred. Instead and in its complaint update 
of 4 March 2021, in which it said it could not respond in time, it referred to both 
services. It also intentionally misrepresented, in that letter, the time limit for the 
referral. It failed to address his letter of 8 March 2021 on this matter and its complaint 
response of 15 June 2021 (to his complaint of 7 January 2021) was outside the 
regulatory eight weeks time limit for such a response. [issue 4]
AJB acted in breach of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) by unilaterally 
imposing upon him unfair changes in the terms for its service, including with regards 
to increasing its charges and limiting its service delivery liability. [issue 5]
AJB systematically refused to offer reasonable and appropriate compensation and 
redress for his complaints. [issue 6]
He has considerable concerns about AJBs corporate governance and about its 
boards oversight of its complaints process. [issue 7]
Mr E also says AJBs complaint response(s) failed to address all the matters he had 
complained about. 
What happened
Overall, the investigator did not uphold the complaint. In the main, he found as follows:
AJBs terms of service expressly gave notice about circumstances in which there 
could be problems with its platform and the terms excluded its liability for that. On 9 
November 2020 specific market related events prompted a surge in trading activity 
and caused many platforms, including AJBs, to experience outages and operational 
issues. Those circumstances affected access to the platform but they were covered 
by the notice and exclusion in AJBs terms (which were not unfair).
AJBs terms also allowed it to update its terms and conditions of service, and to do so 
with notice to the accountholder and with the option for the accountholder to transfer 
out if unhappy with the changes. This was not unreasonable.
It is for a firm to determine what it considers to be appropriate redress, after 
considering the circumstances of a complaint, and if Mr E disagreed in this respect 
he had the right to refer his complaint to this service. 
As there can be some crossover between our remit and that of TPOs and as Mr Es 
complaint partly related to administration of his SIPP, it was not unreasonable for 
AJB to refer him to us and TPO. AJB correctly stated the referral time limit in its letter 
of 4 March 2021.
In L4, Mr E rejected the investigators findings. In the main, he considered that the 
investigator was biased and that he did not properly apply our remit to consider complaints in 
a manner that is fair and reasonable in all circumstances of the case; he questioned why all 
his complaint issues (as he had set out in L1, L2 and L3) had not been mentioned and 
treated by the investigator and why the events in all the dates in issue 1 had not been 
addressed; he said the investigators finding in issue 1 was incomplete for this reason and, 
as it stood, was wrong and inconsistent with the regulators published expectation that  
platform providers  ensure their system are robust and that they have contingency plans in 
place , which AJB failed to do; and he expressed concern that this service had not 
reacted correctly to indications of serious financial and other irregularities within AJ Bell 
and had not considered AJBs responses and representations in the context that the making 
of false/fraudulent misrepresentations was/is one of his complaint issues against AJB.
Mr E also expressed concerns about the investigator, about his approach towards his 
complaint, about our services process for and management of his complaint (including the 
appointment of the investigator), and concerns about the bias he alleges against the 
investigator potentially extending to the service as a whole  the additional concerns.
The investigator retained his conclusion about the complaint. He confirmed referral of the 
complaint to an ombudsman and he explained that he reviewed L2, L3, and took all Mr Es 
submissions into consideration, but concentrated his findings on what was relevant and at 
the heart of his complaint; that he considered events in the dates in issue 1 and used the 
events on 9 November 2020 as an example; that the key finding is that AJBs terms outlined, 
with reasons, there could be instances where the platform could be inaccessible, and it is not 
unreasonable that an online platform sometimes experiences technical difficulties; that this 
service is not the industry regulator and it is not our role to monitor a firms systems, the 
functioning of its corporate governance or how it is being overseen by its board; and that the 
regulators expectation that Mr E referred to was published in July 2021 after the complaint 
events so it would not be fair to apply that to the complaint.In L5, split over two letters to us, Mr E maintained his rejection of the investigators findings 
and made submissions for consideration by the ombudsman. Beyond what he said in L4, 
beyond his comments on a Subject Access Request (SAR) disclosure he had received from 
us (and comments about his observations on our handling of his complaint) and beyond his 
request for confirmation of any telephone contact between the investigator and AJB, he 
mainly said:
Prior to his view, the investigator should have shared AJBs submissions with him for 
comment on factual accuracy.
The investigators treatment of the complaint (and of his response to the view) 
remains incomplete, and the investigators reasons in this respect (which are also 
incomplete) are flawed.
There has been a complaint handling failure by AJB.
The regulators publication in July 2021 was preceded by its earlier warning, on the 
same matter, in February 2020  prior to the complaint events. AJB failed to act on 
that earlier warning. The regulator clearly identified that the problem of unreliable 
platforms was happening amongst firms like AJB and it recognised the harm it 
caused to consumers. It warned that the problem of firms with non-functioning 
platforms was widespread systematic and recurring, and that it would take regulatory 
action against providers if platform reliability did not improve. In this context, it is not 
the role of this service to find excuses for firms or to re-interpret the regulators 
warnings. Providing a functioning trading platform was the main and specific service 
AJB was contracted, and paid, to provide to him, so the recurring and systemic 
failure of that platform over a prolonged period of time amounts to a major breach of 
contract.
This service/the investigator ought to have audited the performance/reliability of 
AJBs platform as he previously suggested, we ought to have looked into matters of 
potential fraud and fraudulent misrepresentations by AJB and we ought to have 
reported such concerns to the regulator. It is his experience that this service fails to 
address a firms duty of care in the cases we consider.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope
Within his overall submissions, Mr E made points that confirmed, or suggested, his familiarity 
with the role of this service, as distinct from that of the regulator. Despite this, it is my 
observation that his complaint issues and submissions have, in a number of parts, gone 
beyond what this service can address and beyond what I can determine in this decision. As 
such, I consider it useful to set out the scope of this decision, with reasons, as follows:
As I said at the outset, Mr E is the sole complainant and the complaint relates to his 
AJB SIPP (and trading in his SIPP account). He has been helpfully clear about the 
issues in his complaint as he sees them, which I also summarised at the outset and 
which I address below. His references to AJB accounts held by his family members, and to AJB accountholders in general, go beyond the remit of this decision. His 
family members and AJB accountholders in general are not co-complainants in this 
case. I do not have jurisdiction in his complaint to determine matters pertaining to 
people who are not party to the complaint. 
As Mr E knows, we do not have or share a regulatory function. His submissions 
have, in parts, referred to allegations of regulatory breaches and malpractice against 
AJB. If these allegations are relevant to the determination of his substantive 
complaint (and if relevant to the issues that I can address  as I explain below), they 
can be considered. However, if his pursuit is to have these allegations determined in 
isolation (that is, solely or distinctly in the context of being alleged regulatory 
breaches and malpractice as opposed to being allegations that are part of the 
substantive complaint issues I can address) and if he seeks sanctions against AJB 
and/or a punitive financial award, these too are beyond the remit of this decision. 
They are matters of regulation. Furthermore, our remit does not extend to 
administering sanctions or making punitive financial awards in complaints. None of 
the above intends to conflict with our role in referring appropriate matters to, and/or 
liaising with, the regulator  which is distinct and separate to my issuing of this 
decision  but we do not have a regulatory function to apply to that.
We do not have a criminal law enforcement function. Mr E has made repeated 
allegations of fraud/fraudulent conduct against AJB and an allegation about serious 
financial and other irregularities within AJ Bell. If these allegations are relevant to the 
determination of his substantive complaint (and to the issues that I can address), 
they can be considered. However, if he seeks AJBs accountability in criminal law, 
based on his allegations, that too is beyond the remit of this decision. This is not 
intended to conflict with any legal obligation(s), short of law enforcement, this service 
has in terms of anti-fraud or other related measures, but we do not have a criminal 
law enforcement function to apply to that.
Only Mr Es complaint about AJB has been referred to me. I have no role to play in 
the concerns he has expressed about the investigator, about his case handling, 
about our service and about our overall approach towards his case and/or cases in 
general (including his expectations on what, in his case or generally, he believes we 
should be referring to the regulator). None of these  and/or none of what I referred 
to earlier as the additional concerns  will be addressed in this decision.
I do not have the remit to address issues 2, 3, 4 and 6  all relating to AJBs 
complaint handling  so I do not address them. DISP 2.3.1 R says our jurisdiction 
covers only complaints about the regulated activities (or ancillary activities connected 
to regulated activities) carried out by firms. The regulators Handbook also says a 
complaint is any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, 
from, or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial 
service, claims management service or a redress determination, which alleges that 
the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or 
material inconvenience. On its own, complaint handling is not a regulated activity 
and is not an ancillary activity connected to the conduct of a regulated activity; a 
complaint about complaint handling (in isolation) is also not a complaint as defined by 
the Handbook, because it is not  about the provision of, or failure to provide, a 
financial service, claims management service or a redress determination . For the 
sake of completeness, a redress determination is specifically defined in the 
Handbook as related to a consumer redress scheme. In some cases, it might be the 
case that a complaint to a firm and the handling (or alleged mishandling) of that 
complaint forms a part of the substantive case (about a regulated activity) pursued by the complainant. For example, where the alleged mishandling of a complaint is said 
to have added to the substantive problem and/or delayed (or partly delayed) its 
resolution. In such cases, determining the firms complaint handling might be a 
necessary part of determining the overall complaint. In Mr Es case, the substantive 
problem he faced was the lack of platform access on the dates. That was a technical 
service delivery matter, distinct from how AJB subsequently handled his complaints 
about it. Its complaint handling was not part of the substantive problem that the 
complaint was about.
Mr Es concerns in issue 7 are a regulatory and/or corporate matter. As I said above, 
this service neither has nor shares a regulatory function; and as the investigator 
noted, it is beyond our remit to get involved in a firms internal systems, corporate 
governance and/or board related affairs. For these reasons, I do not address issue 7, 
and where issue 7 relates to AJBs complaints process my finding above (about      
Mr Es complaint handling complaint being outside our jurisdiction) applies.
This decision addresses issues 1 and 5.
Issue 1
I accept that AJBs platform was inaccessible on the dates cited by Mr E in this issue. 
We have copies of two complaint response letters sent by AJB on 19 October 2020 and 15 
June 2021. Whilst, as I said above, I do not address issue 4, it is briefly noteworthy that both 
of these response letters set out Mr Es right to refer his complaint(s) to this service (only), 
both referred to the correct (six months) time limit for doing so and both said the time limit 
applied, respectively, from the date of each letter. 
The first letter conceded that the platform was inaccessible on 21 September 2020 because 
of an upgrade related technical issue at the time; it noted that dealing could still have been 
done over the telephone; it expressed AJBs regret about the platform problem but said AJB 
did not accept liability because clauses in the terms for the SIPP account gave notice about 
potential problems with its website (with potential reasons for this set out) and excluded its 
liability for such problems that were beyond its control. The second response letter 
addressed the date of 9 November 2020, apologised for the platform access difficulty Mr E 
faced on this date, gave a reason for it (unprecedented dealing volumes across the markets 
caused by an announcement from Pfizer and BioNTech) and confirmed broadly the same 
position (and reasoning) on liability.
With regards to the dates of 3 November 2020 and 7 January 2021, Mr E helpfully shared 
with us reliable date-stamped screenshot evidence showing that the platform was not 
loading on these dates, at the times he tried to access it.
The unresolved dispute in this issue relates to Mr Es arguments that, essentially, the 
platform was unfit for purpose, that there were probably other dates on which it was 
inaccessible (which he says we ought to have looked into by auditing its operation), that a 
form of compensation ought to be due to him for his experiences on the dates and that the 
exclusion clauses AJB relies upon are unlawful and inapplicable in his case.
In L4 Mr E said the investigator had failed to investigate  how many times [AJBs] platform 
failed in a fixed period of time (would say during a year of even for examples in 3 years). It is 
fairly arguable that he was obliged to do so under S228(2) of Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000. As I have said, it is not my role to address his concerns about the investigator, but 
it is implicit in this statement that he probably expects the same level of investigation from our service as a whole and from me.  
Section 228 (2) of Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) confirms this services 
fair and reasonable approach. It says  A complaint is to be determined by reference to 
what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. Mr E appears to say an extensive audit by this service  covering a period between 
one to three years  of AJBs platform operation arguably falls within our responsibility to 
determine cases fairly and reasonably in all their circumstances. I disagree. 
I repeat, again, that we neither have nor share a regulatory function. It is beyond our role to 
audit AJBs compliance, in general and/or over a period as extensive as one to three years, 
with the standards set and or expected by the regulator for an investment platforms 
reliability. Furthermore, such auditing does not appear to be necessary for the determination 
of Mr Es complaint. He cites four dates on which he could not access the platform and, as I 
said above, this has been accepted. His claim that there were probably other dates on which 
the platform was inaccessible might or might not be true, but no evidence has been 
presented to establish this, so I do not have a basis to draw such a wide conclusion. 
On balance, I also do not consider that his experiences over the four dates are enough to 
draw the serious conclusion that AJBs platform was unfit for purpose. For the sake of clarity, 
I do not  and I do not need to  vouch for its platforms reliability. I only find that I have not 
seen enough evidence to say it was unfit for purpose. As I said above, Mr Es experiences 
on the dates have been established by AJBs concessions and by evidence. It is clear the 
platform was not functioning on these four specific dates (and at the times) when he tried to 
use it. However, these four incidents (related to one accountholder) are not enough to 
conclude that the platform was generally unreliable at the time. I note Mr Es argument  in 
this issue  with regards to the CRAs requirement that a service is provided with reasonable 
care and skill, but also for the above reasons I am not persuaded that his experiences over 
the dates establishes that AJBs platform service was not provided with reasonable care and 
skill.
Mr Es SIPP account did not begin, in 2003, with AJB. He says AJBs terms were changed 
and imposed, without agreement, upon him over time, following its acquisition (around 
2008/2009) of the SIPP administration service from the predecessor firm. He says AJB had 
nothing to do with the terms he agreed in 2003, that its terms at the time of the acquisition 
were not provided to him and that the exclusion terms it presently relies upon were not 
agreed by him. 
This matter could potentially stray away from the present complaint and from issue 1. I 
appreciate that his argument about the absence of legitimacy in AJBs exclusion clause is 
another part of Mr Es CRA related submissions, but I will address it in this section. He says 
the CRA prohibits clauses that exclude or seek to exclude a service providers responsibility 
to provide service with reasonable care and skill. However, his complaint is not about 
contractual events in 2003, 2008 and/or 2009, so I will limit myself to considering what is 
relevant to the exclusion clause he disputes. 
The first point to note is that the relevant clauses do not appear to express an exclusion of 
AJBs liability to provide its platform service with reasonable care and skill. The clauses said 
 
Clause 4.5: You may experience occasional interruption to the website as a result of routine 
or non-routine maintenance, upgrades of the website, failure of or disruption to the internet 
or in extreme market conditions or due to systems malfunction or failure.Clause 15.8: We will not be responsible for any delay in performing, or failure to perform, 
any of Our obligations under the Agreement if such delay or failure results from events,
circumstances or causes beyond Our reasonable control including any breakdown, failure or
malfunction of any telecommunications or computer systems (internally or externally),
equipment or software used by Us ....
AJB essentially informed its accountholders that its website/platform could sometimes be 
faulty  including for the general reason of systems malfunction or failure (which, based on 
AJBs explanations and Mr Es screenshot evidence, appears to have been what underlined 
the access problems he experienced on the dates)  and that it would not be liable for that 
where it results from events, circumstances or causes beyond its reasonable control. Its 
responsibility to provide its services with reasonable care and skill existed/exists in matters 
within its reasonable control. Clause 15.8 addressed matters beyond that  matters beyond 
its reasonable control  so I do not find that it excluded or sought to exclude what the CRA 
says cannot be excluded.
These types of exclusion clauses are not uncommon in the industry and, in broad terms, 
firms have used them commonly because they consider that they cannot always be certain 
(and they cannot guarantee) that technology-based aspects of their service will never face 
technical disruptions beyond their control (and/or prevention). These types of clauses do not 
automatically eliminate a firms responsibility in all circumstances. For example, and 
depending on the facts of a case, they might be inapplicable where the balance of evidence 
shows that the disruption was within a firms control and/or could have been prevented; or 
where, as another example, evidence is enough to show that the relevant technology based 
aspect of service was unfit for purpose. I do not have evidence to establish either of these in 
the present case and, on balance, I consider it fair to apply the exclusion that AJB has relied 
upon  the result being that it cannot reasonably be held contractually liable for the platform 
access problems Mr E faced on the dates.
I do not have all the relevant information and evidence about the transition of Mr Es SIPP 
account from the predecessor firm to AJB, but it is usually implicit within such transitions 
that, in the absence of mutual agreement for the accountholder to retain the previously 
applicable terms of service, the new firms terms of service will be introduced and applied. 
Usually, accountholders will be given the opportunity to consider either proceeding on this 
basis or terminating their account (if they disagree with the new terms). Contents within the 
introductory Changes to these Terms section of AJBs terms and conditions document 
make provisions along these lines, including  If We make a change to these Terms for a 
valid reason that is not set out above which is to Your detriment. You will be able to Transfer 
Out without paying the Transfer Out Charge for a period of at least three months from the 
date of notification. It appears more likely (than not) that something similar would have been 
presented to accountholders at the time of the acquisition, and that the above was/is a term 
that applied since then. The result, on balance, is that Mr Es continuation of his account 
after the acquisition probably served/serves as an implicit agreement on his part to be bound 
by AJBs terms of service for the account. I have not seen evidence that there was 
agreement for his account to continue under any previous or other terms.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I consider that Mr E unfortunately faced 
problems in accessing AJBs platform on the dates, but those incidents were reasonably 
covered by the relevant notice and exclusion in the terms for his SIPP account.
Issue 5
I addressed two elements of Mr Es CRA based arguments above  that is, his arguments 
about the responsibility to provide a service with reasonable care and skill, and the unlawfulness of excluding that specific responsibility. I did so in the above section because 
both arguments were relevant to issue 1. The remaining part of his CRA based arguments is 
his allegation that AJB imposed unfair terms upon him and that such terms are addressed in, 
and are unlawful under, Part 2 and section 62 (which he quoted) of the CRA.
Section 62 (of the CRA), in the main, says:
An unfair contract term is not binding on the consumer.
An unfair term is one which causes a significant imbalance in the parties rights and 
obligations under the contract, to the detriment of the consumer.
Assessing a term for unfairness requires consideration of the nature of the subject 
matter of the contract and all relevant surrounding circumstances.
Schedule 2 of the CRA gives an indicative list of what may be an unfair term. I have 
considered this list in relation to the points Mr E has made. In this context a contractual 
clause which has the object or effect of enabling the trader to alter the terms of the contract 
unilaterally without a valid reason which is specified in the contract, or a term which allows 
the trader to alter unilaterally without a valid reason any characteristics of the services to be 
provided, may be unfair. 
The questions that arise are  whether (or not) such clauses existed in AJBs terms in the 
present case; if so, whether (or not) they caused a significant imbalance of rights and 
obligations between AJB and Mr E; if so, whether the imbalance was to Mr Es detriment; 
and, if so, whether (or not) that conclusion remains the same after consideration of the 
nature of the subject matter of the contractual relationship between them and consideration 
of all relevant surrounding circumstances. 
I consider it helpful to set out the entirety of the Changes to these Terms section of AJBs 
terms and conditions document.
We may vary these Terms (including increasing the Charges) on giving You a minimum of 
30 days notice (except as provided below in the case of a change which is not detrimental 
or as set out in clause 8.8). However, We do reserve the right in extreme circumstances to 
vary these Terms with shorter notice e.g. a change to Regulatory Requirements which We 
have to action immediately.
Any changes will come into force at the end of the notice period.
The valid reasons for varying the Terms are:
 to take account of:
- changes in Regulatory Requirements, the law or interpretation of the law
- FCA or other industry guidance, codes of practice, good market practice or the decisions of 
an ombudsman
- in a proportionate way, changes in the costs and expenses We incur in connection with the 
provision of the Services
- changes in technology, systems and methods of operation, including the introduction of 
new systems or services
- the impact of changes in the way the Services are used on the fair allocation of costs and 
expenses between customers
- material changes in market practice or conditions
- changes in taxes or interest rates
- changes in the banking arrangements for the Services to make these terms fairer, clearer or easier to understand;
and
 to correct errors.
If We give notice of an increase in the Transfer Out Charge for one of the above valid 
reasons. You will be offered an opportunity to Transfer Out at the existing Transfer Out
Charge fora period of at least three months from the date of notification.
If We reasonably consider that an alteration to these Terms is not to Your detriment. We will 
not be required to give You any prior notice before making the change but will tell You
about it within 30 days of it having been made.
If We make a change to these Terms for a valid reason that is not set out above which is to 
Your detriment. You will be able to Transfer Out without paying the Transfer Out Charge for 
a period of at least three months from the date of notification.
This is the evidence available to me in this case with regards to the basis on which AJB has 
and/or can change its terms of service. My first observation is that the entire clause features 
AJBs references to valid reasons for which terms could be changed unilaterally  so this 
does not match Schedule 2s reference to the unilateral changing of terms without a valid 
reason being potentially unfair. If Mr E says the reasons listed in the clause above are not 
valid  which will be a potentially difficult argument for him to pursue given the reasonable 
nature of those reasons  and even if that is the case, which I do not consider it is, the need 
remains to apply the tests in section 62.
At first sight, a clause permitting AJB to unilaterally change its terms of agreement with Mr E 
or, if relevant, the characteristics of its service to him might be viewed as an indication of an 
imbalance of rights and obligations between them. However, nothing in the clause required 
Mr E to accept any such change(s). The balance he brought to the affair was his freedom to 
terminate his AJB account and to take his business elsewhere  which would have been a 
loss, of business, to AJB. That freedom also meant AJB was not dominant in this scenario. 
AJB did not have a monopoly in the sector and Mr E had many alternative firms he could 
have moved his account to at any time he considered himself dissatisfied with AJB or 
dissatisfied with any unilateral change of terms it introduced. The above clause 
acknowledged this balance of power in the relationship between both parties. It 
acknowledged his right to terminate the account by referring to a notice period for the 
changes, to his right to transfer out after any such changes and to his right to transfer out 
(within three months of notification of a change) without charge, where the change happens 
for an unlisted reason and results in his detriment. 
These were broadly reasonable provisions and they are not uncommon in the industry. 
Overall, there was no imbalance of rights and obligations in the above clause  and in the 
context of the nature of the subject matter of the contractual relationship between both 
parties and the surrounding circumstances  that rendered it unfair, so the clause was not an 
unfair term.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman