DRN-1974717
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service provided by Money Management Team Limited (MMT) 
when dealing with his payment protection insurance (PPI) claims. 
What happened
Mr W signed letters of authority to use MMTs service in November 2018. Mrs W was 
appointed as the representative for his claims. The terms and conditions explained in the 
event of a successful claim MMT would charge 20% plus VAT of any compensation 
recovered. The terms and conditions also explained that if compensation was used to 
reduce an outstanding balance, MMT would discuss success fee payment options. 
Two of Mr Ws claims were sent to lender L in November 2018, and offers of compensation 
were received within eight weeks. 
One claim was sent to lender H in December. Lender H agreed compensation within eight 
weeks of the complaint. Lender H was awaiting documentation from Mr W so that his details 
could be verified before compensation was paid. This was received, and compensation paid 
by lender H in April 2019.
Further claims were sent to lender M, lender CO, and lender COP in March and April 2019. 
Compensation was agreed by lender M in May, and paid to Mr W in June. Following 
instruction from Mrs W, the claims against lender CO and COP were cancelled in May 2019. 
Mrs W complained to MMT in May 2019 about the way Mr Ws claims had been handled. 
She said the MMT adviser behaved unprofessionally when contacting them about Mr Ws 
outstanding success fees; MMT didnt agree a payment plan for Mr Ws success fees; and 
MMT didnt deal with Mr Ws claims properly. MMT responded to the complaint in June 2019 
saying that theyd acted reasonably, and in the line with the terms and conditions when 
dealing with Mr Ws claims. They didnt offer any compensation. 
Unhappy with the service provided by MMT Mrs W contacted the Claims Management 
Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service). 
The investigator found that the service provided by MMT on Mr Ws claims was reasonable, 
and didnt recommend they do anything in settlement of the complaint. Mrs W rejected these 
findings saying that Mr Ws claims hadnt been dealt with properly. Mrs W didnt think the 
success fees were justified for the work that had been done. She was also unhappy with the 
way theyd chased for their success fees to be paid. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws complaintThe types of complaint we can look into are set out in our rules which can be found in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook under DISP. These include time limits on how 
long a person can wait before bringing their complaint to us. 
Mrs W has complained about the service provided by MMT in respect of her sole claims. The 
final response from MMT for Mrs Ws claims was dated 21 January 2019. This means that 
Mrs W had until 21 July 2019 to contact us about her complaint. MMTs complaint response 
letter also told Mrs W this. However, she didnt contact us until 1 August 2019. This means 
that her complaint is out of time for us to consider.
MMT havent given us permission to consider this complaint out of time, which means we 
can only do this if there are exceptional circumstances. Mrs W has explained the difficult 
circumstances shes experienced because of whats happened, including the impact on her 
well-being and mental health. 
MMT had clearly told Mrs W how long she had to contact us, so I cant say she didnt know. 
Mrs W has explained how this situation has affected her, but this is not a reason for me to 
accept this complaint out of time  Mrs W was able to make her complaint to us, but she 
chose to wait before doing so for the reasons shes given. Because of this I cant say there 
are exceptional circumstances for us to consider this complaint out of time.
Mr Ws complaint 
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr W. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs W says that an MMT adviser behaved unprofessionally when contacting them about Mr 
Ws outstanding invoice. Mrs W says that during a conversation in May 2019 the adviser was 
rude and unprofessional. I requested this call recording from MMT. The adviser explained 
that MMT wouldnt be able offer a payment plan for Mr Ws claims. Although I appreciate this 
call mustve been difficult for Mrs W given the clear breakdown in relationship, I dont think 
the adviser did anything wrong when explaining this.
Mrs W says that MMT agreed a payment plan for her successful claims, and so shouldve 
offered the same to Mr W. The terms and conditions agreed to by Mr W explained that if 
compensation was used to reduce an outstanding balance, MMT would discuss success fee 
payment options. I havent seen any evidence to indicate that the offers made by any of the 
lenders for Mr Ws claims was used to reduce outstanding debt. 
Wed expect a claims management company to treat their customers fairly and 
sympathetically where a customer is struggling to pay fees for a service provided. In this 
case, as Mr W was awarded compensation directly from his lenders, and the success fees 
amount to less than the total compensation paid, I think MMT acted reasonably by asking for 
their success to fees to be paid in full in line with the terms and conditions agreed to. 
Mrs W says that Mr W did not receive the service expected. Ive considered the work done 
by MMT on Mr Ws claims. I dont think there were any delays by MMT in sending the claims 
to the lenders after Mr W instructed them. The offers of compensation on the successful 
clams were all made within the eight weeks normally provided to a lender to respond to a 
PPI complaint. There isnt any action Id expect MMT to have taken in the meanwhile.  
Its likely that Mr W and Mrs W were involved with the lenders, to ensure that compensation 
could be paid on time. But these requirements were set by the lender- not MMT. So I cant hold MMT responsible for the additional steps that had to be taken by Mr W before 
compensation could be paid out. MMT did chase the lenders for a response in the interim. 
These actions were fair, and in line with what wed expect. So I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask MMT to pay compensation for the delay in Mr W receiving compensation 
once offers were agreed. 
Mrs W says MMTs success fees are unjustified for the amount of work that was done on the 
claims. The contract between Mr W and MMT explained that payment of the success fee 
was dependent on Mr W receiving compensation  not on the amount of work completed by 
MMT. The contract summarised what MMT would do when dealing with Mr Ws claim. This 
included establish whether there is in principle a potential claim and actively pursue that 
claim or claims on your behalf. Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied that MMT acted 
reasonably, and in line with their agreement with Mr W, when dealing with his claims. 
Although I can appreciate Mr W feels strongly that the service provided by MMT wasnt to a 
standard he was expecting, the evidence Ive seen supports that the claims were dealt with 
in line with the terms and conditions agreed to from the outset. So I wont be asking MMT to 
do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, Mrs Ws complaint cannot be considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service as it falls outside of our rules.
For the reasons provided I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman