DRN-3126229
The complaint
Mr P and Miss B have complained about an early repayment charge (ERC) incurred when 
their joint mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) was redeemed.
To settle the complaint, Mr P and Miss B would like the ERC reimbursed.
The complaint has been brought by Mr P, with the consent of Miss B.
  
What happened
The events leading up to the complaint being raised arent really in dispute; NatWest accepts 
that it made errors, that Mr P was given incorrect information and that its customer service 
was poor. Because the bank has accepted its mistakes, I dont need to set out each and 
every little thing that happened; instead I will keep my summary of the complaint fairly brief. 
In any event, the investigator has set out in detail everything that happened in his letter 
dated 30 September 2021, a copy of which has been sent to all parties. 
In 2019 Mr P and Miss B took out a mortgage with NatWest on a property they jointly owned. 
They borrowed a total of £450,995 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 33 years. 
The mortgage was on a fixed rate of interest until 30 June 2024. 
The terms and conditions of the loan provided that if the mortgage was repaid in full or in 
part on or before the end of the fixed rate period, an ERC would be payable. The ERC was 
on a tapering basis, being 5% of the outstanding balance for the first year, reducing by 1% 
each year over the five-year fixed rate period.
Unfortunately Mr P and Miss Bs relationship broke down. Mr P wanted to take over the 
mortgage in his own name and in December 2020 he approached NatWest to ask about a 
Transfer of Title (ToT). A settlement had been reached with Miss B, and Mr P wanted to 
move quickly to have the property and mortgage transferred into his name.
After discussing his requirements with a mortgage adviser, a product illustration was issued.
Mr P didnt meet NatWests criteria for the mortgage to be transferred into his sole name. I 
can see that options were explored to see whether or not an overpayment would result in the 
application being approved. Mr P was given conflicting information about whether or not hed 
need to pay off part of the mortgage in order for it to meet the banks affordability criteria, 
and how much this would be. Mr P also says that NatWest failed properly to assess all his 
income, not just from his main job but from running a small business as well.
In addition, although the banks online portal suggested that the House Prices Index (HPI) 
would be used to value the property, this wasnt in fact correct. Both Mr P and the banks 
mortgage adviser thought the application would be based on the HPI to determine the loan-
to-value (LTV) ratio of the mortgage.  
However, unless there was a fresh valuation of the property (for which Mr P would have to 
pay), NatWests policy was that it would use the original valuation from 2019. The HPI would 
only be used if there was a product switch or additional borrowing, which wasnt the case 
here. The adviser acknowledged that this was an error on his part and queried internally 
whether the HPI could be used, but it could not.
In an undated text to Mr P from the adviser, he says:
The underwriters have informed me for this application we must use the last 
valuation for the property rather than the HPI that we hold for the property, the last 
valuation is £500,000 which significantly reduces the maximum loan we can offer. 
Alternatively the other option is you are able to pay for a valuation, if you think the 
property has increased in value since the original valuation. I am really sorry for my 
error, please let me know when you are free this morning for us to discuss what you 
would like to do 
Although Mr P had the option of having the property re-valued at his own expense (which 
would have cost approximately £500), Mr P had lost confidence in NatWest and instead 
decided to find another lender. 
The mortgage was redeemed on 8 April 2021, with Mr P paying an ERC of just under 
£17,400.
Mr P brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  Mr P said he felt he had 
no option but to find another lender, and so was forced to pay the ERC. 
The investigator thought NatWest had fairly applied its lending policy, and so the decision 
not to use the HPI was correct. But the investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr P was forced 
into paying the ERC, as hed been given the option of having a re-valuation of the property.
The investigator also thought NatWest should pay compensation for its poor customer 
service, which he assessed at £300.
NatWest agreed to pay this. Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that 
NatWest forced him to redeem the mortgage early by changing the lending goalposts to the 
point that it was impossible for him to afford to continue. He thought a fair outcome would 
have been for the bank to say NatWest are not prepared to lend me the money, someone 
else is, we go our separate ways and no penalty is incurred. Mr P thought that any 
reasonable person would agree with that outcome, which is why he wants all his money 
back.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by explaining that, although Mr P describes the ERC as a penalty, its important to 
note that it isnt, in fact, a penalty. In legal terms, a penalty is a contractual term which 
applies where there is a breach of contract. But when Mr P and Miss Bs mortgage was 
repaid, there was no breach of contract, because the contract allowed for the mortgage to be 
repaid during the fixed rate period if the ERC is paid. As I said at the outset, its not dispute NatWest made mistakes. What I have to decide is 
what is fair compensation for the banks errors.
The starting point is to look at what would have happened if the mistake hadnt been made.
The error that is at the crux of this complaint is that Mr P was told by the mortgage adviser 
that the HPI would apply when the bank assessed the LTV and affordability of the mortgage. 
All the other issues Mr P is unhappy about  in relation to the various amounts the bank said 
it would lend and the lump sum payments required  flowed from this initial error. 
If Mr P had been told at the outset that the HPI wouldnt apply to this transaction, he could 
either have proceeded on the basis of the previous valuation and made a significant lump 
sum payment to reduce the LTV, or he could have paid for a new valuation. I dont know 
what the new valuation would have been, as it never happened. It may, or may not, have 
been higher or lower than the 2019 valuation. 
But that point was never reached, because Mr P decided instead to look for a new lender. I 
can understand his frustration  and I agree with him that NatWests customer service was 
poor  but I also have to look at what Mr P could have done to mitigate his position in order 
to avoid the ERC.
Rather than pay for a new valuation (which would have cost around £500), Mr P instead 
decided to go to another lender, paying the ERC of about £17,400. That was entirely his 
choice, because the mortgage terms allowed for redemption of the mortgage, subject to the 
ERC. Mr P could have avoided this by having a revaluation of the property, but chose not to.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Mr P was, as he says, forced to 
move to a new lender. There was an option available to him that might have resulted in him 
not having to pay the ERC. So in the circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to order NatWest to reimburse Mr P for the ERC.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that NatWest should pay compensation for distress and 
inconvenience as a result of its mistakes and poor customer service. I think £300 is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to the errors made by the bank.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr P and Miss B 
compensation of £300 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman