DRN-3426727
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr H alleges that the installer misled Mr H into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr H signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not 
be immediately self-funding in the way Mr H says he was led to believe. So, the adjudicator 
did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr H disagreed. He said (through his representatives) that the sale was conducted based on 
verbal representations and while he electronically signed the documentation, he did not see 
the documents before he agreed to buy the solar panels. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr H was provided with the sales documents, as his representative sent us 
a copy. It seems likely that he wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the 
document.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels is only one page and it sets out the cash price of 
the solar panel system of £8,390 and Mr H has signed directly beneath this.  
The estimated benefit Mr H could expect to receive is also set out on one page and Mr H 
has again signed this page. 
Neither of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. As 
Mr H has signed directly beneath these sections, I think its likely he wouldve seen these 
figures when he signed the documents. Mr H was also given a validation sheet with the term 
of the loan (10 years) and the monthly payments hed have to make under the finance 
agreement.
I think its apparent that an estimated yearly benefit of £510 over 10 years would not amount 
to £8,390. 
I understand Mr H now says he didnt see these documents when he signed as he signed an 
electronic screen. But he has signed the validation sheet confirming hed understood how 
the estimated benefit and finance agreement worked. And generally, I would expect 
customers to, at least, briefly look at and read what they were agreeing to before signing it. 
Mr H was agreeing to a significant purchase, and I dont think its likely he would have signed 
these contractual documents without a brief look at and some understanding of the 
information they contained. 
These documents are part of the installers own sales pack, so I think its likely the 
information they contain would have formed part of the discussions the installers had with 
consumers. The documents arent particularly long, and they dont have an array of facts 
and figures for Mr H to wade through. 
Overall, I think its more likely that it would have been clear to him that the solar panels 
would not be self-funding in the way he now says he was told they would be. 
If Mr H had been told something different, on being asked to sign these documents, I would 
have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he 
did, so I think that suggests that the documents most likely did not contradict Mr Hs 
understanding, at that time. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Hs testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman