DRN-3020232
The complaint
Mr B complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) lent to him irresponsibly and without carrying 
out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees and charges associated with the 
loans refunded, and his credit file amended.
What happened
In August 2014 TFS approved a guarantor loan of £4,500 for Mr B, which was scheduled to 
be repaid at approximately £168 per month over a term of 60 months (loan one). The loan 
was intended to be used either to buy or repair a car. When assessing the application, TFS 
discussed Mr Bs income and expenditure with him; carried out a credit check; and looked at 
some bank statements before approving the lending. It also used a tool to check whether 
what he told it about his income seemed right.
It would appear that the loan was settled in May 2015, when TFS approved a second 
guarantor loan, this time of £7,500 for Mr B, which was scheduled to be repaid at 
approximately £280 per month over a term of 60 months (loan two). This loan was intended 
to be used to settle loan one, and provide funds for a holiday. When assessing the 
application, TFS discussed Mr Bs income and expenditure with him and carried out a credit 
check before approving the lending. It also used a tool to check whether what he told it about 
his income seemed right.
It appears that the second loan was settled.
One of our investigators looked into this case and thought that TFS checks didnt go far 
enough for either loan. And that, if the checks had gone further, it would have seen that this 
lending wasnt sustainable for Mr B. So, they upheld the complaint about both loans.
TFS didnt accept that in respect of loan two, and asked for an Ombudsman to look at the 
case. TFS didnt reply to the investigators view of loan one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. Essentially, that 
is for the same detailed and lengthy reasons provided in the investigators views, and in 
this decision I shall summarise the key facts. TFS is aware of its obligations under the 
rules and regulations in place at the time of this lending decision, including the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was 
required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr B would be able to repay the 
borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means 
that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mr B needed to be able to meet him financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay TFS for the loan to be considered affordable and sustainable.
Did TFS carry out proportionate checks before granting loan one?
TFS asked Mr B questions about him income and expenditure in a phone call; used a tool 
to cross check his income disclosure; viewed his bank statements; and carried out a credit 
check when considering his loan application. It carried out an income and expenditure 
assessment (I&E), and assessed the loan on the basis that Mr Bs income was £2,000 
per month; that his living expenses were around £867 per month; and that he needed 
about £908 per month to service all him debts (£168 of that to TFS). Overall, that would 
have left him with around £209 disposable income per month.
So, its clear that TFS did gather information on Mr Bs circumstances. But I dont think I 
can conclude that it responded appropriately to what it did see.
The regulations do not prescribe the nature of the checks that lenders need to carry out  
or the sources of evidence that must be pursued. The key thing is that lenders carry out 
proportionate checks: by definition, that must mean that the checks for one customer could 
look significantly different from checks for another. Or that checks in relation to the same 
customer could vary greatly over the time, depending on the circumstances.
So the question for me is, in all the circumstances of this case, and based on what it knew, 
did TFS checks go far enough for this application to render them proportionate? The 
answer is no, for several reasons.
Firstly, the amount being borrowed was fairly large, and Mr B was signing up to a 
reasonable loan term. That meant that he needed to be able to sustain repayments for a 
fairly long time. This in itself should be a consideration when determining the extent of 
checks necessary.
Secondly, there were several flags on the information that TFS had which should have 
raised concerns about Mr Bs overall financial circumstances. The key flags were:
A county court judgement (CCJ) against Mr B registered in May 2014.
An arrangement to pay with another creditor between March and June 2014.
A large overdraft on his current account, in almost constant use.
Thirdly, there are obvious gaps in the I&E. Despite declaring that he had four dependents, 
absolutely no expenditure in relation to clothing, footwear or household goods was 
anticipated over the course of the loan. How five people (several of them presumably 
growing children) would not need any new clothes, shoes or household goods in 5 years is 
inexplicable. Essentially, the conclusion that Mr B had around £209 per month in 
disposable income was obviously dubious and premised on an acceptance of unrealistic 
expenditure.
Working with implausible information at face value without pause does not equate to 
complying with the regulations to carry out proportionate checks. And TFS cannot use 
arguments about customer honesty to nullify its own responsibilities in assessing the 
affordability of the loan for Mr B  not the risk to itself of the borrowing being repaid.
So there were several clear concerns raised by TFS checks. I accept the theoretical 
possibility that, had it done further checks, it might have found evidence to mitigate those 
concerns and suggest that this lending was sustainable for Mr B. On the basis of what it had, however, that conclusion cannot be reached. Indeed, TFS should have declined the 
application because of:
An implausible I&E
Recent CCJ and arrangement to pay showing on the credit check
Mr Bs obvious reliance on a large arranged overdraft, with additional fees for going 
into an unarranged overdraft, and repeated borrowing from high cost short term 
lenders seemingly to stay within the arranged overdraft limit.
The conclusion that Mr B would need to borrow elsewhere to make the repayments on 
loan one was inescapable. Therefore, the lending could not reasonably have been judged 
to be affordable or sustainable on the basis of the available information, and should not 
have been granted.
Did TFS carry out proportionate checks before granting loan two?
Despite Mr B returning for a substantial increase in borrowing only nine months later, TFS 
carried out fewer checks before granting loan two. It essentially repeated the checks it had 
carried out for loan one, but did not ask for bank statements. It seems to suggest that this 
was on the basis that Mr B had showed no difficulties in making the repayments so far due 
on loan one. However, there is a very distinct possibility that may have only been because 
Mr B was borrowing elsewhere to meet those repayments. In any event, any confidence 
TFS had that it would get its money back based on what had happened in the preceding 
nine months does not equate to an assessment of affordability for Mr B in line with the 
relevant regulations at the time.
Whilst there was by this stage a greater distance in time between the CCJ and 
arrangement to pay showing on the credit file, the same concerns existed as I set out for 
loan one, and should have led TFS to undertake more in-depth checks. Although I note 
that by this time Mr B declared that he had five dependents, meaning that six people were 
apparently reliant on his income, which was declared to have reduced by £200 per month. 
So arguably the concerns were greater than they had been for loan one.
What would more in-depth checks have shown for loan two?
When considering this question, our service has had the benefit of Mr Bs bank statements 
in the months leading up to this application. However, there is absolutely no requirement 
on a lender to obtain any particular type of information: I accept that entirely. Lenders are 
permitted to source and rely on a range of evidence when assessing affordability, and so 
TFS could have opted to gather more information about Mr Bs circumstances in a range of 
ways. The bank statements are just one way of me better understanding Mr Bs full 
circumstances at the time, but in the absence of anything else provided, Im happy to rely 
on them.
The bank statements from 2015 continue to paint a picture of someone who has 
widespread financial difficulties, most significantly demonstrated by:
unpaid transaction fees
clear reliance on a large overdraft simply to exist
unarranged overdraft fees
repeated borrowing from and repayments to high cost short term lenders
minimal payments to a debt collection agency
Overall, the evidence available to me strongly suggests that this borrowing was not sustainable for Mr B, and that there would have been a very high likelihood that hed need 
to borrow to meet repayments for loan two.
It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint in full.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr B, TFS must do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid as a result of these loans;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above from the date they were paid, to 
the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of the loans.
HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman