DRN-4230368
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the availability of a suitable replacement car and further damage 
when he made a claim under his car insurance policy with Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV). 
What happened
In December 2022 Mr Os car required repair following an incident. LV arranged for an 
approved repairer (AR) to collect Mr Os car for repair. 
Mr O had enhanced guaranteed hire car cover under his policy with LV. This meant that in 
the event of Mr Os car needing repair, LV guaranteed to provide a similar replacement car. 
Mr Os car was a seven seater vehicle. 
However, when LV made enquiries, a seven seater vehicle wasnt available from the hire car 
company and so Mr O was without a car for four days. It was agreed that the AR would carry 
out temporary repairs as Mr O needed a larger car to travel for holiday. 
The AR returned Mr Os car to his home address and dropped the keys in the letterbox. 
When Mr Os daughter returned home, she noticed a wing mirror on Mr Os car had come 
off. 
Mr O complained to LV. He was unhappy with the unavailability of a similar hire car. He said 
the AR should have folded the wing mirrors in to prevent the risk of damage as the road 
outside his home is a busy main road. Mr O wanted LV to meet the costs to replace the wing 
mirror. 
LV upheld part of Mr Os complaint. It was sorry that a similar replacement car wasnt 
available. It said it would pay Mr O £100 compensation. This included a payment of £15 a 
day for loss of use for four days. 
LV didnt agree the wing mirror damage caused to Mr Os car after the AR had returned it 
was LVs responsibility. It said Mr O could make a second claim and it would reduce the 
excess due by half, which Mr O didnt agree to. 
LV said that as it had delayed responding to Mr Os complaint, it agreed to pay half of the 
costs Mr O subsequently paid to have the wing mirror replaced as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr O remained unhappy. Our Investigator thought LV had done enough to put things right. 
Mr O didnt agree. He said LV had a duty of care. As its agent (the AR) failed to fold in the 
wing mirrors when leaving his car on a busy main road, he believes LV failed in its duty of 
care. 
So Mr O wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong we look at what the impact was, and what the insurer did to put things 
right. 
LV accepts that it wasnt able to provide Mr O with a seven seater replacement vehicle which 
he was entitled to under the policy. When a customer has loss of use of a car, we generally 
think an insurer should compensate for this loss at a rate of £10 a day. In this case, 
according to LVs notes, Mr O was without a replacement car for four days. As LV paid 
compensation of £100, this is more than we would generally award in these circumstances, 
and so I think LV has acted fairly here. 
I understand it must have been upsetting to discover that Mr Os car had been damaged 
after being repaired and dropped off by the AR. However, there isnt any evidence to show 
that the wing mirror damage was directly caused by the AR. There is no evidence of an 
instruction for the AR to fold the wing mirrors in. Mr Os car was left where intended. So I 
cant safely conclude that LV failed in its duty of care here. 
I think that LV has done enough to put things right in this case. So Im not asking it to do any 
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman