DRN-2226228
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money withdrew the 0% 
promotional interest rate after a credit card payment wasnt received on time. 
What happened
Mr E has a credit card with Virgin Money that was subject to a 0% promotional interest rate. 
Mr E lives abroad and the transfer intended to make his 2 February 2020 wasnt received in 
time. As a result, when Virgin Money tried to collect the its direct debit payment there were 
insufficient funds available. 
Mr E made a payment of £100 on 13 February 2020 which was more than he had been 
asked to pay. Virgin Money took the step of withdrawing the promotional interest rate from 
Mr Es credit card which increased the contractual payments. 
Mr E has told us he has found the increased payments difficult to manage so he complained 
and asked Virgin Money to reinstate the promotional interest rate. Virgin Money responded 
to Mr Es complaint on 7 April 2020 but said its decision was fair and in line with the credit 
cards terms and conditions. Mr E referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to 
an investigator. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint and he asked to appeal. In response to the 
investigator, Mr E accepted the payment was late but says it was a genuine error and asked 
for some allowance during a difficult period. As Mr E has asked to appeal, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that the increase in monthly payments has cause difficulties for Mr E. But I 
can only uphold a complaint when I find that a business has made an error or treated a 
consumer unfairly. Ive focused on whether the decision to withdraw Mr Es promotional 
interest rate was in line with the account terms and whether it was fair to do so. 
Mr E appears to accept that there is provision in the credit card terms that allows Virgin 
Money to withdraw the promotional interest rate if a payment is made late. I understand that 
this was a genuine error by Mr E and hes told us the situation is made harder because he 
lives abroad. But its clear that the 2 February 2020 payment wasnt made on time and that 
the direct debt was returned by Mr Es bank unpaid. 
Virgin Moneys terms and conditions say: 
If we do not receive the minimum payment when it is due or you go over your credit limit, we 
will withdraw the promotional rate  
Virgin Money took the decision to withdraw the promotional interest rate in line with its 
account terms, so Im unable to say it has made an error. 
In response to our investigator, Mr E has explained that the increased payments have 
caused financial difficulty and that he would like Virgin Money to take a compassionate view 
here. I take Mr Es point and I recognise that were experiencing difficult times. But I cant 
force a business to apply goodwill to a situation, and I think its fair and reasonable for Virgin 
Money to rely on the credit cards terms to decide what action to take. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mr E but I havent been persuaded that Virgin Money made an error or treated 
him unfairly by withdrawing the promotional interest rate. 
Businesses have to treat customers experiencing financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But thats not the same as saying Virgin Money has to reapply the 
promotional interest rate. If Mr Es financial difficulties persist, he has the option of contacting 
Virgin Money to discuss his account and options. There are organisations that offer advice to 
consumers experiencing financial difficulties, details of which can be found on the Financial 
Ombudsman Services website. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but, for the reasons Ive given above, I havent found grounds to 
uphold his complaint. As Im satisfied that Virgin Money dealt with Mr Es complaint fairly, Im 
not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman