DRN-3658919
The complaint
Miss L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse funds she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Miss L saw an advert for an investment business Duxa Capital on a social media platform. 
The investment was being endorsed by celebrities. Miss L says she went to its website 
which looked professional and carried out some basic searches about the business online 
but didnt come across any negative reviews.
She made a number of investments and says initially Duxa was very responsive and it 
allowed her to make a withdrawal. However, as time went on, and Miss L wanted to make 
further withdrawals it became distant until it stopped replying altogether. It was at this point 
Miss L did more research and came across warnings and negative reviews and realised 
shed been scammed. The money paid to Miss L was made up of her own money, money 
borrowed from family and from HSBC.
The transactions were as set out below:
Date Merchant Amount Payment type
28 February 2020 Nextpayway.com £213.57 Debit card
02 March 2020 HQ*frdpay2 Mosk va £2,184.84 Debit card
04 March 2020 Royal-Coins.net £500 Debit card
04 March 2020 Royal-Coins.net £5,000 Debit card
05 March 2020 Royal-Coins.net £5,000 Debit card
12 March 2020 PPK5 Mosk va £2,233.30 Debit card
13 March 2020 Royal-Coins.net £7,500 Debit card
13 March 2020 Phoenix Payment Ltd £7,600 International transfer
14 March 2020 Royal-Coins.net £7,500 Debit card
Total £37,731.71
On 10 March 2020, Miss L made a successful withdrawal from her investment of £752.67, so 
her loss is £36,979.04. In addition to this Miss L also incurred some foreign transaction fees 
in relation to some of these transactions.
Miss L complained, but other than delays in its complaint handling for which it paid £100 
compensation, HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong. Our investigator considered 
the complaint and upheld it. Although the initial payments werent so unusual, she found the 
fourth payment  that of £5,000 made on 4 March  ought to have triggered HSBCs fraud 
alert systems, as it was unusual and uncharacteristic for the spending on Miss Ls account. 
And she was satisfied that had HSBC intervened the scam would likely have unravelled. She 
also considered whether Miss L had contributed to her loss but found she hadnt.
HSBC disagreed with the outcome reached. In summary it said:
It doesnt appear Miss L carried out any research into the merchant or industry 
before investing, yet she parted with over £37,000 which demonstrates a 
willingness to take risks with her money.
As Miss L acknowledged, she was contacted about some payments because of 
the amounts, which she approved. It doesnt accept it was required to intervene 
from the fourth payment.
It doesnt consider any intervention by it would have unravelled the scam.
Contributory negligence is only considered briefly within the opinion. Miss L 
paid a large sum of money out without taking any steps to satisfy herself it was 
a legitimate investment opportunity. It considers this a clear example of 
contributory negligence.
Its unhappy 8% interest has been applied to the refund as Miss L didnt 
borrow to make the payments and her account remained in credit 
throughout.
On allocation to me I noted that Miss L had taken out two loans through HSBC just prior to 
some of the investments being made. And she had received large sums from individuals 
which were also invested. I arranged for enquiries to be made about the loans, the other 
money and what research Miss L had carried out before investing (already noted above).
HSBC indicated that Miss L had applied for two loans, £5,000 on 3 March 2020 and £10,000 
on 4 March 2020. Its records show that Miss L told it the loan purposes was to buy a new 
motor vehicle. However, it also said both of these applications were rejected.
Miss L told us she told the bank the borrowing was for personal or investment reasons. And 
she is still in the process of repaying HSBCs loan. She borrowed other money from family 
but didnt explain to them the investment she was making; and she says she will be repaying 
that after she has finished her loan with HSBC.
I issued my provisional decision on 21 July 2022 explaining why I was minded to uphold 
Miss Ls complaint but that I was also minded to reduce compensation by 50% as I found 
she was equally responsible for her losses. 
Miss L has confirmed she has nothing further to add. HSBC said that although it didnt agree 
with everything said, it would agree to my recommendation as a gesture of goodwill and 
without admission of liability. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. I therefore finalise them below. Suffice to say, 
HSBCs time to make a goodwill gesture without admission of liability has passed. As my findings show, I have found it equally responsible for Miss Ls losses and so require it to 
compensate Miss L accordingly. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay.
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customers as a result. HSBC is aware of our general approach to its 
safeguarding and due diligence duties to protect customers.
The payments made by Miss L were made using her debit card and by an international 
transfer. I therefore conclude these were authorised payments  for which Miss L is liable, 
unless there is evidence HSBC could and should have done more to protect her, which issue 
I now turn to.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute Miss L has fallen victim to a scam. The FCA 
published a warning about Duxa Capital just a matter of days before Miss L made her first 
payment.
Miss L made a number of payments. But none of them went directly to Duxa Capital. Rather 
it appears Miss L was making payments to different cryptocurrency exchanges. This is 
important as it wouldnt have been known to HSBC where the ultimate destination of the 
funds was, such that I think it ought to have automatically blocked the payments. It also 
means any chargeback attempt would likely have failed as payments went to a different 
party.
But I do think HSBC should have intervened. Miss L made a number of payments from her 
account, the majority of which were debit card payments. I agree with the investigator that 
the first three payments werent unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, albeit they were 
international and to new payees. I therefore dont find HSBC ought to have intervened before 
any of those transactions completed.
However, I find the first payment of £5,000 to Royal-Coins on 4 March was a substantial 
increase in spending, with Miss L only exceeding her previous largest spend of £1000 a 
matter of days before, such that I do find it was unusual and uncharacteristic. It was also the 
second payment to the same merchant in one day. Im satisfied this was so unusual that 
HSBCs systems ought to have triggered an alert and the payment paused, pending further 
intervention  such as making enquiries, or giving a scam warning.
I have considered the payments appear to have been sent to legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchanges. And I accept that buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. But both the 
FCA and Action Fraud had warned of cryptocurrency exchange and forex trading scams in 
2018. And in May 2019 Action Fraud published further warnings that such scams had tripled 
in the past year. This type of insight is something regulated businesses including HSBC, 
ought to take notice of. So even if Miss L had been sending money to legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges, it didnt follow that her money was safe, or that she wasnt at risk 
of financial harm due to fraud or a scam.
Had HSBC carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Miss L about the payment, Ive 
no reason to doubt she would have explained what she was doing. Whilst I accept it had no duty to protect her from a poor investment choice, or give investment advice, it could have 
provided information about the steps a customer can take to ensure as far is a reasonably 
possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate person  such as checking the trader was 
authorised by the FCA. And it could have drawn on its own knowledge and information that 
was in the public domain (already referenced) about the high-risk associated with trading 
and the potential for fraud and provided Miss L with a potential scam warning.
It appears HSBC did intervene in some of the payments. But both parties have indicated this 
was purely an exercise in confirming it was Miss L making the payments. I dont know which 
payments these interventions related to, but given the sums involved in the payments from 4 
March 2020 onwards, I dont think such a limited intervention was sufficient to ensure Miss L 
wasnt at risk of financial loss due to fraud or a scam. Had it done more, Im satisfied Miss L 
would have looked further into the investment in general, whether the trader was regulated 
here or abroad and could have come across the FCA warning for herself. Im satisfied a 
more meaningful intervention by HSBC would likely have exposed the scam, and caused 
Miss L to stop, thereby preventing any further losses. So HSBC should reimburse those 
losses.
But that isnt the end of the matter. I also need to consider whether Miss L ought to bear 
some responsibility for the situation in which she found herself. Although Miss L says she 
hasnt invested I note she did make regular contributions to an ISA, albeit I accept this might 
have been a cash ISA, which wouldnt provide much in the way of investment experience.
Miss L has also borrowed in order to invest. It isnt clear why she did that. And although 
HSBC says the loan applications were rejected, that doesnt appear correct given what her 
statements show  that the loans were derived from HSBC and that although the second 
loan repaid the first, I understand the second is still being repaid. That same application 
information also shows Miss L told HSBC the loans were to buy a new vehicle  not what 
she told us was the reason given for the borrowing. So it doesnt appear she was entirely 
honest with HSBC about why she wanted the funds and I am aware that HSBC doesnt 
actually provide an option to borrow for investment (Im not aware of any bank that would 
lend for this purpose).
Miss L also invested a fairly substantial sum, and the sums were increasing overtime. And 
although she has said she carried out some research, by her own admission that was basic. 
However, even just searching Duxa Capital ought to have flagged the warning provided by 
the FCA at the time. Had Miss L been more diligent in her research she would have come 
across information in the public domain for herself about Duxa Capital.
So I do think Mrs S ought to bear some responsibility for her losses and compensation 
should be reduced accordingly. Having thought about this carefully I find a reduction of 50% 
compensation to be appropriate. Both parties could have done more here to prevent the 
financial loss.
Finally, I note HSBCs comments about the 8% interest that has been awarded. As it will 
note from my findings, Miss L did in fact borrow to make the investment. But this is also our 
standard approach where someone has been caused a financial loss and has lost the use of 
funds. I see no reason to depart from our approach here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I requires HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to:Reimburse 50% of Miss Ls losses from the fourth payment of £5,000 inclusive of any 
applicable transaction fees; and
It should add 8% simple interest per year, from the date of the payments to the date 
of settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman