DRN-2045643
 
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Santander UK Plc made a mistake that me being mixed
up with someone elses. Then Santander failed to put this right.
What happened
Mr Z told us hed discovered early in 2018 that Santander had mixed up his details with 
those of his twin. He repeatedly asked Santander to take action, but he said it wasnt 
responding to him or sorting this out.
He told us he could see all of his twins bank details when he logged in to online banking, 
and his twin could see all of his financial details. He said hed had to close his account with 
Santander. But Santanders mistake also meant that his credit history contained all of his 
twins accounts, and vice versa. He said Santander denied that it was responsible for this, 
until a credit reference agency told Mr Z that it was Santander who had linked his accounts 
with his twins back in 2017.
Mr Z said that he couldnt get full credit, because all his twins borrowing was showing on his 
credit file. He couldnt get a mortgage, because it looked as if he already had one.
Mr Z said he had long wanted Santander to investigate, sort out the problem, and provide 
compensation for the distress caused. It was December 2019 before it finally accepted 
liability. It said then that some time earlier an employee had wrongly linked his account with 
that of his twin, and it paid him £200 in compensation. But Mr Z said that this wasnt enough 
to put things right. He expected to receive somewhere between £1,350 and £2,300. He 
wanted our service to look into this.
Our investigator asked Mr Z to send credit and mortgage applications, so he could take 
those issues into account. Mr Z sent us his credit file, which showed accounts held in two 
different names.
Santander said Mr Z had an account with it which was little used. It was closed in February 
2019. It accepted that it had merged Mr Zs profile with his twin in May 2017. Santander was 
no longer able to tell us why that had happened.
Santander showed us it had been alerted to this issue in early 2018, when it had 
investigated and taken steps to rectify the problem with online banking. It wrote to Mr Z in 
February 2018, to say that the matter would be resolved in about a month. But it had never 
gone back to him to say the matter was sorted out.
Mr Z had followed this up. Hed shown Santander emails hed sent it on 17 April 2018, 1 
June 2018, and 25 December 2019. But Santander couldnt show that it had done anything 
in response to these.
In January 2020 Mr Z went into a branch of Santander, and lodged a complaint. Santander 
then removed all links between the twins, sorting out the problem with their credit files, and 
paid Mr Z compensation. Santander said if there was any additional impact that it hadnt 
taken account of, it would reconsider the amount.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that although it did take 
longer than wed expect for Santander to rectify the problem, there was no significant 
financial impact on Mr Z in the meantime. So he thought that the £200 Santander had paid 
was what wed usually award. He said wed reconsider this if Mr Z could show evidence of 
any additional impact this had on him.
Mr Z disagreed. He asked when he would need to send further submissions, and our 
investigator asked him to send those by 16 June. Our service hasnt received anything 
further from Mr Z, and the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Santander has accepted it made a mistake in this case, and that it didnt fully rectify 
that mistake when it was alerted to it. It has also said that it cant show it took any 
further action when Mr Z told it the problem wasnt sorted out. So I need to think 
about whether the compensation that Santander has paid in this case is enough to 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I dont think it is. I think Santander should pay a little more compensation in this case.
Mr Z said what Santander had paid wasnt enough, because he hadnt been able to 
get full credit, or a mortgage, for the last two years. He wanted Santander to pay 
considerably more. But he hasnt shown us that he made applications, or even 
enquiries, about lending which he wasnt able to access. So thats not why I think 
Santander should pay more.
I think Santander should pay more because this mistake had serious implications. It 
allowed two people to have access to each others financial information, in a way that 
should not have been possible. And although Santander rectified this for its own 
online banking, it allowed a link it had created between these two people to persist 
for almost two years more, even though the issue had been brought back to its 
attention during this time. I dont think what Santander has paid fully reflects the 
invasion of Mr Zs privacy that it caused, and then allowed to continue. I think 
Santander should pay Mr Z a further £200 now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Santander agreed, and said that it would need to make any payment into a bank account. It 
asked him to supply a recent bank statement, so it could do this. Mr Z wrote to suggest that I 
increase the amount of compensation that Santander should pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z said he was pleased that my review clearly set out the issues and the chronology of 
correspondence. But he thought he should be paid a further £400, not £200. He said there 
were several reasons for this. 
Mr Z said hed had legal advice that claimants have been awarded anywhere between 
£1,350 and £2,300 as a minimum in such cases. So a total award of £600 would represent 
just under half of the compensation provided in similar data protection breaches. But I would 
benchmark my compensation against other awards made by our service. And I dont think 
that an award at the levels Mr Z offers as a minimum would be consistent with awards our service has made in other cases. If Mr Z prefers, he can take legal action instead of 
accepting my decision. 
Mr Z said the case went back to 2018, and it wasnt until 2020 when Santander took this 
seriously. Mr Z said that worrying about his had affected his mental health. I do think this is 
likely to have been worrying for Mr Z, and Ive taken that into account in my decision.
Mr Z said he closed the Santander account because he had no confidence in the bank. I can 
understand this, but I also note his account was little used before the mistake was 
discovered. 
Mr Z said the incorrect credit record had an impact on his mortgage and credit availability. 
He accepted he hadnt shown us that he had submitted mortgage applications. But he said 
he couldnt make an application, because his twins mortgage was linked to his credit file, 
and independent financial advisers told him he couldnt get a mortgage based on his salary 
with another mortgage (albeit incorrectly) on his credit file. Mr Z said he couldve bought a 
property in 2018, but now he couldnt, so Santanders mistake had a significant effect. 
Mr Z wrote to Santander in April 2018, June 2018, and December 2019, about the mistake 
on his credit record. In June 2018, he said he would be raising this with our service if he 
didnt get a response. But he didnt contact us or Santander about this until December 2019. 
I think if Mr Z had wanted to get a mortgage in 2018, and if hed taken professional advice 
which told him about the effect of the mistake on his credit record, he wouldve been likely to 
pursue this with Santander or with our service at that time. I dont think I can conclude, on 
the evidence I have, that Santanders mistake prevented Mr Z from taking out a mortgage in 
2018. 
Mr Z said this was a very serious invasion of his and his twins privacy. He could see all of 
his twins spending, bank and mortgage balance and vice versa. This is Mr Zs complaint, 
and Im not able to offer compensation in this case for any invasion of privacy that affected 
his twin. Mr Zs twin could only see his bank account while Mr Zs Santander account 
remained open, and I note this was little used. I understand Mr Z would be concerned that 
his twin couldve seen Mr Zs credit report before Santanders mistake was rectified, and Ive 
taken this into account in my decision.
  
Mr Z also said he still hadnt received any apology or explanation from Santander as to how 
something like this could occur. He wanted a direct apology from Santander. I think this 
decision sets out for Mr Z what went wrong, and how, as best as I can now tell. I also note 
that when Santander wrote to Mr Z in January 2020, the letter said I offered you my sincere 
apologies for any distress and/or inconvenience this matter have caused you on the 3rd 
January and would like to apologise again. I think Santander has offered Mr Z its direct 
apologies, in person and in writing. I dont think it has to do that again. 
I considered Mr Zs further arguments, and reconsidered the case as a whole, but I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr Z £200, in addition to the £200 it has 
already paid for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-GoughOmbudsman