DRN-2764015
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given poor advice by Pi Financial Ltd (Pi) trading as
Diversify Financial Services to transfer benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB)
pension to a personal pension.
What happened
Mr S was advised by Pi to transfer his deferred benefits from his DB pension scheme with 
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension in 2017.
At the time of the advice Mr S was 31, in good health and was living with his partner and 
young child. He had no investment experience and his attitude to risk was recorded as 
medium. He wasnt expecting to retire before 65 and more likely around 67.
With regards to his objectives it was recorded in the suitability report that:
Mr S was concerned about the financial stability of BSPS and he would rather 
transfer his funds to a personal arrangement which would be under his control during 
his working life and ultimately in retirement.
He wanted the flexibility to draw income from his pension when needed, varying it 
from year to year depending on his employment income.
He wished to secure his BSPS benefits so that any remaining funds could be passed 
on to his partner and child after his death. As he wasnt married, his partner would 
have to prove she was financially dependent to claim a 50% spouses pension.
He wished to achieve a retirement income of £1,500 per month in todays terms after 
paying off the balance on his mortgage
Mr S complained in 2020 about ongoing advice charges he paid without receiving an 
appropriate service for this. He also complained about the suitability of the transfer advice. Pi 
agreed to refund Mr S the ongoing advice fees, however said the recommendation to 
transfer had been suitable for him.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. An investigator thought the advice had been 
unsuitable. Pi disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. Pi should
have only considered a transfer if they could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ss best interest (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not
satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
A Pension Transfer Report issued at the time showed that the investment return required to 
match the BSPS pension at retirement at age 65 (critical yield) was 6.49% per year if 
benefits were taken in full. A comparison was also done to the benefits available if BSPS 
entered the Pension Protection Fund compensation scheme (PPF). The critical yields here 
were 5.13% if benefits were taken in full or 4.94% if a lump sum and a reduced pension were 
taken at retirement.
Pi says Mr S is unlikely to take an annuity with his new pension which is the basis of 
comparison when using a critical yield. However, the critical yield does give a good 
indication of the value of benefits Mr S was giving up and the regulator deems it an important 
part of the decision-making process. So I deem them highly relevant.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.7% per year for 33 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
Even taking the lowest critical yield here (4.94%), which was a comparison to the PPF, its 
likely Mr S wouldnt have been able to even match his DB benefits in the personal pension if 
he was invested in line with a medium risk strategy. Even assuming he could match the 
regulators middle projection of 5%, the small additional benefits he could possibly gain were 
not enough to justify taking on more risk with his pension. I appreciate that Pi says the 
investments in Mr Ss personal pension did outperform these projections over the past few 
years. However, as Pi will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance 
and Mr Ss pension needed to return above 5% every year for the next 33 years to make the 
transfer worthwhile.
And Im not convinced Mr S would have been inclined to take this risk. A file note from the 
beginning of the fact-finding process records his attitude to risk as cautious. And when Mr S 
received a suitability report which advised him to invest through a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension, he asked the adviser to suggest something less complex. He said:
Im not sure whether I have contradicted myself through the risk analysis you sent me, but 
when I first talked to the consultant I was clear I was interested in a low risk pension plan.
I agree Mr S was able to take a balanced risk with his pension given that he was still many 
years from retirement and after speaking to the adviser again he agreed to follow the 
updated recommendation to transfer to a personal pension into a medium risk portfolio as he 
understood he could take a little more risk. However, investment risk and transfer risk are 
two different things. And I think given Mr Ss general more cautious feelings towards risk, I 
think the guaranteed, low risk nature of his DB benefits would have matched his attitude 
more, rather than risking his pension for unlikely and if any small gains. 
So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Ss best interest.Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall
lower benefits.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr S approached Pi as he was concerned about his pension. Lots of his colleagues at the 
time were transferring out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in 
the PPF. Transfer values were also higher than they had been before and members felt 
there was a risk these values would go down again at some point.
So its quite possible that Mr S came to Pi leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, 
it was Pis obligation to give Mr S an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interest. Mr S was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. I think its 
reasonable to assume he was worried he could lose some of his pension. However, as the 
figures above show, even if this happened, Mr S was still likely to be better off not 
transferring. I cant see that this was properly explained to him.
flexibility and control
One of the objectives recorded was that Mr S wanted to take benefits flexibly in retirement. 
However, first of all, Mr S was still many years from retirement, so his plans around 
retirement would have naturally been uncertain. And more importantly, it was recorded that 
Mr S had joined his employers defined contribution scheme. Given that he was still over 
thirty years from his expected retirement age, it was reasonable to assume that he would 
accumulate further pension benefits which he could access more flexibly in retirement. So 
staying in the DB scheme didnt automatically mean he would have to give up flexible 
retirement benefits in general. 
Mr S had no investment experience, so I dont think he needed active control over how his 
pension would be invested.
death benefits
Mr S was single at the time of the advice and so its correct that a spouses pension in the 
DB scheme wasnt guaranteed to his partner at the time. However, even if at the time of the 
advice Mr S had no concrete plan to get married, I think the adviser should have pointed to 
the reasonable possibility that he could get married in future. He had just bought a house 
with his partner and they had a one-year old child. So I dont think the possibility of marriage 
in the short to medium term could be ruled out. 
The suitability report also says:
You have advised me that death benefits are not a particular concern for you [my 
emphasis], however, as there is a significant difference between the transfer value and the 
value of your pension fund should you die before retirement, I felt that this needed to be 
highlighted to you.
They pointed out that if Mr S died before retirement in the DB scheme his partner would only 
receive a lump sum of around £23k whereas in the personal pension his family could receive 
the full pension value. Of course this would have looked more attractive. However, Mr S was 
young and in good health and if he was concerned about death benefits (which it seems he 
wasnt before he spoke to the adviser), he could have been advised that he could take out 
decreasing term assurance which given his age and health would have likely been not 
prohibitively expensive. Pi said Mr S didnt want any further expense as he had just moved to a new house, but the fact find showed he had a fair amount of disposable income and as I 
said before I think life cover -if he wanted it- would have likely been affordable. The 
additional cost of life assurance needed to be weighed up against the lower retirement 
benefits he would receive by transferring. Again I cant see this was properly discussed and 
explained.
Summary
Overall, I think it wasnt in Mr Ss best interest to give up guaranteed benefits. By transferring 
he was risking obtaining lower retirement benefits in return for flexibility and control he could 
have had through his future pension benefits and different death benefits which he could 
have secured in alternative ways if needed. I dont think his options with regards to his DB 
scheme were properly explored.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr S likely was keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension. However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively 
weigh up the options for Mr S and advise him what was best for his circumstances. And for 
the reasons given above I think this would have been not to give up his DB benefits.
On balance I think Mr S would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice if they 
had recommended him not to transfer out and had properly explained why this wasnt in his 
best interest.
At the time of the advice Mr S would have been given the choice to either:
- remain in BSPS and move into the PPF in early 2018 or
- choose to transfer his deferred benefits into BSPS2 which was a new scheme to be set up 
by the schemes trustees which was meant to provide the same benefits as BSPS but with 
lower future increases
In my view, if Mr S had not been advised to transfer his pension funds to the personal 
pension, he would have likely opted to join the BSPS 2. There was a 10% reduction
in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the
starting entitlement for deferred members. 
Its correct that at the point the advice was given, there was no guarantee BSPS2 would 
definitely be set up and so anyone who chose this option could have still ended up in the 
PPF. But as explained above even the reduced benefits of the PPF would have likely been 
higher than the benefits reasonably achievable in the personal pension. And there was a 
reasonable chance the scheme would be set up and provide higher benefits. 
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr S, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for Pis unsuitable 
advice. I consider he would have moved into BSPS2. Pi should undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date 
of the actual calculation.
Pi may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss
should if possible be paid into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ss likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
In addition Pi should pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date
Pi receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of any 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 90 day period, that it 
takes Pi Financial Limited to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay 
Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Pi Financial Limited to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Pi Financial Limited to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Pi 
Financial Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pi Financial Ltd. My 
recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman