DRN-2052142
The complaint
L complains Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited mis-sold it an unsuitable motor 
fleet insurance policy.
L is a limited company. It was represented, when taking out the policy and for this complaint, 
by one its directors. For simplicity Ive referred to his actions as being those of L.
What happened
In November 2019 Somerset Bridge arranged a motor fleet policy for L. In January 2020 
some of Ls vehicles were stolen. It made a claim on the policy. 
But the insurer didnt pay out. Instead it avoided the policy (treating it like it had never 
existed). It said it had been told, during the application process, that L wasnt the subject of 
any County Court Judgements (CCJ). But it had since discovered it was. The insurer said if 
the correct information had been provided it wouldnt have offered any cover to L. 
L complained. It said Somerset Bridge had failed to ask it relevant questions  causing it to 
be sold an unsuitable policy. So L feels Somerset Bridge is responsible for it having a policy 
avoided and claims refused. It didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It said it was Ls 
duty to provide correct information  but it had answered no when asked about CCJs. 
Our investigator felt Somerset Bridge hadnt done anything wrong. So he didnt recommend 
it cover any losses L experienced as a result of claims not being paid. L didnt accept that. It 
asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
This decision only considers the actions of Somerset Bridge in arranging the cover. It doesnt 
look at the insurers decision to avoid the policy and refuse the claims. Those issues have 
been looked at in a separate complaint against the insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L feels Somerset Bridge is responsible for it taking out an unsuitable policy  and so for the 
policy being avoided and any claims refused. So I need to consider if Somerset Bridge did 
anything wrong  and then if its mistake did cause L to lose out. 
When arranging the policy, Id expect Somerset Bridge to ask reasonable questions of L  so 
it could ensure any policy it recommended was suitable. L says Somerset Bridge didnt ask 
appropriate questions of it when arranging the cover.
 
Ive listened to a recording of the sales call. Somerset Bridge explained to L that it had a duty 
to provide a fair presentation of the risk. It set out the possible consequences of not doing so 
- including increased premiums or a policy being avoided. 
L was asked Has anyone in your company ever been declared bankrupt, gone into 
receivership. liquidation, insolvency, administration or been subject to any CCJs or sheriff 
court decrees. Ls answer was No. It didnt hesitate.  
L says the question was misleading. It feels it correctly answered what was asked. L is 
subject to the CCJ rather than anyone in the company. It says if it had been asked if L itself 
was subject to CCJs it would have responded with dont know and checked for the correct 
answer. 
I accept the question asked by Somerset Bridge didnt ask directly about A. But I think it did 
enough  and L should have understood from that question and the wider conversation that 
it needed to declare any CCJs in its name - or to at least ask if it wasnt sure. The policy was 
being taken out in its name. The information required for the insurance application was about 
L. And in any event, Im not persuaded L would have answered differently if it had been 
asked the alternative question.  
Ls referred to terms and conditions that require a credit search to take place. It feels that if 
one had been made the CCJ would have come to light. Then it wouldnt have ended up with 
an unsuitable policy, an avoidance and so on. 
I havent seen any terms of business for Somerset Bridge that say it will perform a credit 
search. There are terms that advise L insurers can use various sources of data, including 
credit reference agencies. But it doesnt say the insurer has to or will always do so. And it 
doesnt say Somerset Bridge, the broker this complaint is against, will check credit files.     
L says other brokers have confirmed they check credit files before agreeing insurance. That 
may be correct, but it doesnt mean Somerset Bridge was required to do the same  or that it 
got something wrong by not doing so. Ultimately it was Ls duty to make a fair presentation 
of the risk it presented. Unfortunately, it didnt do that. For the reasons given above I cant 
fairly say that was Somerset Bridges fault.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman