DRN-3428436
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited paid his Uncrystallised Fund Pension 
Lump Sum (UFPLS) in the 2021/22 tax year. 
What happened
Mr G wanted to take his pension with Aviva as a UFPLS before the end of the 2020/21 tax 
year, so that he would be taxed 20% on this. He was expecting to receive a higher income 
the following year, and so was aware that if the UFPLS was paid in the 2021-22 tax year, 
then he would be liable to pay 40% tax on some of this.
Aviva initially led Mr G to believe that so long as it received his paperwork before the end of 
the 2020-21 tax year, the payment would count as being made in that tax year, regardless of 
when it was actually paid. 
Aviva later accepted this was incorrect advice. It sent Mr G £100 shopping vouchers as an 
apology. It also said it would make the payment by telegraphic transfer (TT) to ensure it was 
completed before the end of the 2020/21 tax year. 
However, Aviva then didnt make the payment by TT. That meant that Mr G received the 
UFPLS in the 2021-22 tax year, and had to pay 40% tax on part of the payment rather than 
20%.
Aviva paid Mr G £100 compensation, and reassured him that the matter would be reviewed 
by a senior manager to see what it could do regarding his tax situation. When Mr G didnt 
hear from Aviva again, he brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Avivas errors had 
caused Mr G to suffer a financial loss due to the payment being made in the 2021-22 tax 
year. He recommended that Aviva engage with Mr G to establish what his additional tax 
liability was, and compensate him for this. The investigator thought the £200 (by way of 
vouchers and cash) was reasonable compensation for the inconvenience Mr G had 
experienced.
Aviva didnt agree to our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been provided with all the calls between Mr G and Aviva, but Ive read the call 
notes. 
Mr G first called Aviva about the matter on 19 March 2021. Aviva says that during this call, 
Mr G was told of Avivas timescales for processing the payment. It says it only received 
Mr Gs completed form on 24 March 2021, and so it didnt have enough time to process the 
payment before the end of the 2020-21 tax year (based on its normal timescales). 
However, Aviva has already accepted that during this call, it led Mr G to wrongly believe that 
so long as the completed form was received before the end of the 2020-21 tax year, then the 
UFPLS would be classed as being paid in that tax year (even if it was actually paid after 6 
April 2021). So I dont think the timescales given were particularly relevant, as Mr G intended 
to submit his completed form to Aviva before the end of the 2020-21 tax year.
Mr G says if hed known he didnt have enough time for Aviva to process and pay the UFPLS 
in the 2020-21 tax year, then he wouldnt have gone ahead with his request to have the full 
pension paid as a UFPLS. Instead, he says he would have considered other options (such 
as drawdown) so that he wouldnt have had to pay a higher tax charge. 
Aviva accepted it had made a mistake and reassured Mr G that it would make his payment 
by TT so the payment would be completed within the 2020-21 tax year. I think that was a 
reasonable response. Unfortunately, Aviva made a further error and failed to do this, which 
meant the UFPLS was paid to Mr G in the 2021-22 tax year. 
I agree with our investigator that Mr G has suffered a financial loss as a result of Avivas 
errors. To put matters right, Aviva should put Mr G back in the position he would have been 
in, if the payment had been made in the 2020-21 tax year. 
I think Mr G was caused unnecessary worry and inconvenience by Avivas errors. But Im 
satisfied the £200 already paid to Mr G (by way of compensation and vouchers) was 
appropriate in the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to 
do the following:
Put Mr G back in the position he would have been in by compensating him for any 
additional tax he had/has to pay as a result of the payment being made in the 
2021/22 tax year instead of the 2020/21 tax year (subject to Mr G providing evidence 
of his loss).
If Mr G has already paid the higher tax charge, then Aviva should add 8% simple 
interest* to the above from the date the payment was made to the date of settlement.
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman