DRN-2899271
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun 
Life) mis-sold them a mortgage endowment policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in early June 2021, which set out the background to the 
case and what I was minded to decide:
Sun Life sold Mr and Mrs R a mortgage endowment policy in late 1987. It had a 
target/death benefit of £30,000, guaranteed sum of £10,530, and a term of 25 years. 
From 2001, Sun Life sent them letters warning there was a high risk the policy 
wouldnt reach its target amount at maturity. They surrendered the policy in early 
2003.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs R complained (via a representative) that the policy had been 
mis-sold. Sun Life didnt uphold their complaint, so they referred the matter to our 
service. They said they were cautious investors and the policy wasnt suitable for 
their needs, particularly as they didnt yet have a mortgage in place. They say they 
should have been advised to take out a repayment mortgage instead, in 
preparation of an interest-only endowment later on.
Sun Life has consented to us considering this complaint. Our investigator upheld it 
as he wasnt persuaded the policy was appropriate for Mr and Mrs R. But Sun Life 
has requested an ombudsmans decision. It says Mr and Mrs R were aware of, and 
understood, the risk.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not minded 
to uphold it for these reasons:
This was a low cost, with profits endowment policy. At the time of sale, it would 
have been seen by the industry as a low risk investment. So the key question I 
need to consider is, was it appropriate for Sun Life to sell Mr and Mrs R a low risk 
investment as a repayment vehicle?
Whilst Mr and Mrs R didnt have a mortgage in place at the time, they took one 
out a few months later. The target and term of the policy seems to largely 
match their mortgage. And the application shows they were given the option of 
starting their premiums from a later date. It also seems clear they had an 
upcoming need for a repayment vehicle. So Im not persuaded this made it 
inappropriate for their needs.
Mr and Mrs R say they should have been advised to take out a repayment 
mortgage. But I agree with Sun Life that its likely theyd taken separate mortgage 
advice  and may have already been advised to take out an interest-only 
mortgage. I say this because Sun Life would only have been offering advice 
about its own products, and it wasnt a mortgage provider. If they had already 
decided/been advised to take out an interest-only mortgage, that would suggest 
the advice was suitable. Based on the information we have about their 
circumstances at the time of sale, they didnt have sufficient means in place to 
repay the capital borrowing they needed. So it was likely worthwhile for them to 
take out a low-risk investment for the purposes of securing a mortgage and 
therefore being able to purchase a property.
Although our investigator found the policy ran close to Mr Rs intended retirement 
age, Im not persuaded this made it too risky for them. This has to be considered 
within the context of them taking advice from Sun Life about a repayment vehicle.
According to the application, only Mr R was working at the time of sale. From 
what hes told us, he was anticipating being economically active for a further 
three years when the policy was due to mature. And from what theyve told us, 
Mrs R was also intending to work during some of the period of the mortgage  
providing further opportunity to cover the risk of a shortfall. Overall, it seems likely 
they could have taken a low level of risk. So Im not persuaded Sun Lifes advice 
was inappropriate.
Ive found no evidence that Sun Life offered a contractual guarantee that the 
policy would reach its target at maturity. To the contrary, the application Mr and 
Mrs R signed said the amount payable at the end of the term might be less.
Nor have I found any evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs R were otherwise 
misadvised about the policy terms.
I invited both sides to submit any further comments and evidence. Sun Life hasnt added 
anything. But Mr and Mrs R maintain that the policy was mis-sold. In summary, they say:
Their primary concern is that the policy was forward sold in preparation for a 
mortgage they ended up taking eight months later. Because of this, Sun Lifes 
advisor didnt practice due diligence, and couldnt accurately advise them on their 
needs  such as the death benefit theyd require. 
Whilst they would have received separate advice when taking out their mortgage, 
they didnt have one at the time of taking out the endowment. The suitability of Sun 
Lifes advice shouldnt be dependent on further advice by different firms. 
They were advised to take out an endowment policy for a future interest only 
mortgage without a repayment mortgage being offered or discussed. If theyd have 
taken out a repayment mortgage, they wouldnt have needed the endowment and 
would have lost out financially even if surrendering it at that point due to fees. 
The policy ran close to Mr Rs intended retirement, and both Mr and Mrs R ended up 
medically retiring in 2004. They werent willing to accept the risk and didnt have the 
disposable funds to cover a shortfall if the policy underperformed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision. To explain why, in addition to the points Ive already set out above, Ill address the 
response Ive received from Mr and Mrs R (via their representative).The crux of this response relates to forward selling. Id agree that, in some circumstances, it 
may be inappropriate to sell an endowment when no mortgage is held. But Mr and Mrs R 
took out an interest-only mortgage a few months later, suggesting there was an upcoming 
need for a repayment vehicle. Even if I were to conclude that the policy shouldnt have been 
forward sold, Id only make an award if I thought Mr and Mrs R lost out as a result. I cant 
award for speculative losses that werent incurred. As my provisional decision explains, Ive 
seen nothing to substantiate that the term or target of the policy was inappropriate for the 
mortgage they ended up taking out. And from what theyve told us, their circumstances didnt 
change significantly in the months between the sales. Overall, Im not persuaded they lost 
out as a result of the forward sale. 
I appreciate that Sun Life likely didnt advise Mr and Mrs R about taking out a repayment 
mortgage. But its advice must be considered in context. The fact they went to Sun Life 
suggests they were considering options other than a repayment mortgage. I say this 
because Sun Life wasnt a mortgage provider, and could only give advice about its own 
products. Mr and Mrs R even acknowledge in their submissions that they wanted an interest 
only mortgage eventually, albeit they think they should have been advised to take out a 
repayment mortgage to start with. Its unclear to me why an interest only mortgage (for which 
theyd need a repayment vehicle) would only have been suitable later. Particularly as theyve 
told us their circumstances didnt change significantly over the next ten years. 
Mr and Mrs R maintain they werent willing to take any risk with repaying their mortgage. But 
Im not persuaded thats more likely than not. As mentioned above, contacting Sun Life for 
advice suggests some willingness to look at options other than a repayment mortgage. And 
whilst the policy was set up to run within a few years of Mr Rs intended retirement, he was 
expecting to be economically active when it ended. From what Mrs R has told us, she was 
also intending to work during the mortgage term  despite the endowment being offered on 
the basis that she wasnt working. 
I cant look at this complaint with the benefit of hindsight. Whilst attitudes to endowments 
may have changed, at the time Im conscious that this type of policy would reasonably have 
been seen as a way to potentially earn a lump sum on top of repaying the mortgage  and 
possibly for a lower cost. The industry would have regarded this policy as a low risk 
investment that was appropriate for most people. In all the circumstances, I consider it more 
likely Mr and Mrs R were willing and able to take a low level of risk. So Im not persuaded the 
policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman