DRN-3613460
The complaint
Mr F complains about the charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Vehicle
Solutions (Novuna) asked him to pay when he returned a car to them at the end of a lease.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr F, I agree with the investigators findings.
Ill explain why.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr F responsible for keeping the car in good
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct
condition.
Mr F was able to arrange repairs himself before he returned the car to Novuna but if damage 
was still present they were able to make charges for refurbishment. Considering the charges 
they have made they seem in line with what their competitors charge in similar 
circumstances and I dont think it would be fair to suggest they were unreasonable.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association
(BVRLA). Ill therefore consider any damage against that standard when deciding whether
charges have been applied fairly by Novuna.
Mr F doesnt dispute that there is damage to the four alloy wheels, so Ill not consider those 
charges any further.
Dirt in the paintwork of the bonnet and front bumper. 
The BVRLA guidance says, Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint, 
preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish or poorly matched paint, is not 
acceptable.
There are marks in the paintwork on both panels and I think that is evidence of poor repairs 
in these areas. I think Novuna were therefore entitled to make a charge.
Rear left tyre damage
The BVRLA guidance says, There must be no damage to sidewalls or tread.
The photograph shows a cut in the tyre sidewall and the charge Novuna have made is 
therefore reasonable.
Roof dent
The BVRLA guidance says, Dents on the roof or on the swage line of any panel are not 
acceptable.
A dent is visible in the photograph provided by the inspector, so I think a refurbishment 
charge was reasonable.
Dents on the front door and quarter panels
The BVRLA guidance says, Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided 
there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. 
The photographs show that dents in all these areas exceed the tolerance in the BVRLA 
guidance and I therefore think the charges Novuna have applied are fair.
I understand that Mr F thinks that much of the damage wasnt visible to the human eye, but I 
cant agree. The inspector was able to identify the damage with the naked eye and the zebra 
boards used in the photographs are used to make the damage and the extent of the 
damage, clearer when photographed. 
Im not therefore asking Novuna to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman