DRN-3180949
The complaint
Mr F complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited (BHIIL) declined his 
claim under his motor insurance policy, following a collision that his car was involved in.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr F made a claim to BHIIL. When first contacting the business, he says his car 
was stolen by his partner and she had been involved in a collision with a parked car. 
BHIIL declined the claim based on the information provided during this call. It says Mr F 
confirmed his partner had taken his car keys and was driving the car when it was involved in 
an accident. He said he was asleep at the time and his partner returned to his house to tell 
him she had, dinged his car. 
BHIIL says Mr Fs partner is not covered by his policy and says cover isnt provided where 
damage is caused by a house guest. 
Mr F subsequently explained that he did not know for certain who the driver was, and that 
the police havent charged anybody. He disputed the definition of a house guest and said his 
partner had only come over for tea.  
BHIIL says Mr Fs revised account of events contradicted what he said when first registering 
his claim and in a subsequent call. It says he told it his partner was in the process of moving 
in with him. BHIIL says that in addition to the house guest exclusion, Mr Fs partner wasnt 
named on his certificate of insurance, which also meant no cover was provided. 
As Mr F was not pressing charges against his partner, and BHIIL thought it clear she was 
driving at the time of the collision, it assumed he had given permission or access to his car 
keys. 
Mr F says a comprehensive policy should cover everything and maintains it isnt known who 
was driving his car. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
his complaint. She thought BHIIL was fair to decline the claim based on the information Mr F 
provided when he registered his claim. 
Mr F disagreed. He says he didnt know who took the keys. It couldve been anyone and he 
didnt give his permission for anyone to drive his car. Mr F says he was unaware of all the 
clauses BHIIL had to get out of paying and that his current insurance has no clauses. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Let me explain.
My remit here is to consider whether BHIIL behaved fairly when declining Mr Fs claim. Its 
his responsibility to show the event he is claiming for happened and BHIILs responsibility to 
show why the claim should be declined. 
I have listened to the first notification of loss (FNOL) call to understand what Mr F told BHIIL 
when he first registered his claim. During the call he says his car was stolen, and that 
someone had taken the car keys from his house. He later explains that it was his partner 
who had taken it and she had crashed into a parked car at the end of the street. 
In the call Mr F says he had been in an argument with his partner and then had fallen asleep 
on the couch. His partner returned to the house and told him she had dinged his car. He 
says his partner was injured in the collision and the police and ambulance services had been 
involved. He explained his partner was taken to hospital. 
BHIILs call handler asks Mr F if he is pressing charges against his partner. He confirms he 
isnt. Mr F confirms that his partner is in the process of moving in with him.
BHIIL referred to the following conditions from its policy terms when declining Mr Fs claim:
Exclusions to Section 2: The Company shall not be liable for:
14. Loss or damage occasioned by theft or attempted theft or any malicious act expedited by 
or in any way brought about by the Insured, any employee, partner, director, house guest or 
any member of their families including those in law.
And:
General Exclusions: The Company shall not be liable in respect of:  
Any Accident, injury, loss, damage or liability occurring whilst any Insured Vehicle is being:
b) Driven by or is in the charge of any person who is not named on the Certificate of 
Insurance under Section 5 Persons Entitled to Drive.
BHIIL says that because Mr F confirmed his partner was responsible for crashing the car, 
and she isnt named on his insurance certificate, cover isnt provided by his policy. It also 
explained that as his partner was in the process of moving in with him, it was reasonable to 
consider her a house guest. The exclusion above states BHIIL isnt liable for loss or 
damage in these circumstances.
I acknowledge Mr Fs comments that he doesnt know who took his car keys, or who was 
driving the car when the collision occurred. But I think based on the FNOL call, it was 
reasonable for BHIIL to accept that Mr Fs partner had taken the keys and driven the car 
when the crash occurred.  
BHIIL says Mr Fs partner is assumed to have had his consent to drive his car, as he didnt 
press charges. In the circumstances described I think this is fair.
Mr F says he wasnt aware of all the exclusion clauses in his policy, and he thought 
comprehensive cover meant cover was provided no matter what. 
Im sorry Mr F isnt covered for the damage caused. But no insurance policy covers all 
eventualities. Its clear from his policy terms that cover is excluded in these circumstances 
for the reasons given by BHIIL.In considering all of this I think BHIIL behaved fairly in relying on its policy terms and 
declining Mr Fs claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman