DRN-2797580
The complaint
Mr C complains that Western Circle Ltd,  trading as Cashfloat, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr C took two loans with Western Circle. Here is a brief loan table. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 26/01/2019 23/05/2019 4 £500.00 £199.88
2 23/05/2019 30/08/2019 3 £700.00 £361.77
 
Mr C complained to Western Circle in 2020 and it took time for him to receive its final 
response letter by email (November 2020). Western Circle did not uphold his complaint. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this Service and one of our adjudicators considered it. He 
thought that Western Circle should put things right for Mr C in relation to Loan 2. He said: 
The information you gathered should have showed that [Mr C] was having problems
managing his money. I think you saw that [Mr C] had at least 5 other short term loans
outstanding at the time of applying for this loan. You wouldve seen this on the credit 
bureau search that you conducted at the time he applied. As you didnt have this 
available to provide in the business file I used [Mr Cs] credit report. In these 
circumstances, I think you ought to have realised it was unlikely [Mr C] wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay this loan  and any subsequent loans.
Western Circle disagreed and has made many points, some of which are paraphrased and 
listed here:
- Mr Cs declared income was high enough to lead Western Circle to conclude that he 
could afford the loans easily; and
- its usual that checks carried out early in a lending relationship are less detailed than 
later and here Mr C only took two loans; and
- its not a regulatory requirement for credit searches to be carried out; and
- the FCA does not say that a consumer cannot have other lending at the same time.
Western Circles position is summarised in this sentence: Just because he had other credit 
at the same time, does not support this when a customer has a large disposable income 
which is more than adequate to make payment.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
[Western Circle needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Western Circle 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but I do not think that this is relevant to 
Mr Cs circumstances as he took two loans only.
Western Circle was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Mr Cs responses to our adjudicators view leads me to think that he does not disagree with 
the outcome and Mr C has said that he does not have anything to add other than his original 
submissions. So, I have not reviewed loan 1 as that appears to be undisputed. Loan 2 is early in the lending relationship  just four months into it  and Mr C applied for 
£1,000 on the day that he repaid loan 1. I understand when Western Circle says that early 
on in a lending relationship then lesser checks were proportionate to these loan applications. 
But in Mr Cs case there were additional factors. 
Western Circles position in this complaint seems to be that Mr Cs high salary could cover 
all his other loan commitments and his expenditure and still be able to repay the Western 
Circle loan 2, and therefore it was satisfied it could lend.  
Western Circle has said to us that Our affordability check will only approve a loan if the total 
of all monthly credit repayments, to which the applicant is already committed, together with 
all other living expenses, leave the applicant with sufficient disposable income to comfortably 
afford their repayment to Western Circle.
Mr C had explained that he was employed and was married and his income was relatively 
good. For loan 1 he had said his monthly net salary was £3,950. For loan 2 he has said that 
it was £52950 which, realistically, was likely a typing error. And I see that Western Circle 
has verified his income in its checks and has explained to us it used the £3,950 figure as 
declared. So, proceeding on that figure, and reviewing Mr Cs declared expenditure, then 
loan 2 may have looked affordable. Mr C declared his expenditure was: 
- loan repayments £500
- monthly rent/mortgage £850
- other credit commitments £150
- utility bills £250
- travelling expenses £250
- food/groceries £200. 
Western Circle has explained a great deal of its procedures, but it has not actually sent to us 
much evidence of these procedures and so I have little to review. One element missing is 
that relating to its credit searches. These are important as our adjudicator has determined 
that Mr C had a great deal of other credit commitments of a high-cost nature before loan 2 
was approved. Western Circle was asked for them and its response was: 
We used [Credit Reference Agency name here] lending metrics for this client. Due to 
the age, the reports are no longer available.
The loans were approved just a couple of years ago, and so I find it perplexing that Western 
Circle has not been able to send to us what it saw about Mr Cs financial circumstances 
before approving loan 2.  
Western Circle has explained its processes on how it undertakes its creditworthiness 
assessments. I do not set out all those details here, but I note that it has explained it used 
third party information as well as the information it had from Mr C plus its own experience of 
lending to come to lending decisions. Western Circle accepts that it reduced the amount of 
loan 2 from the £1,000 applied for to £700. It has explained it reduced the loan 2 figure to 
ensure his borrowing was sustainable. So, it seems to me that Western Circle had 
information which led it to make that decision. 
And I looked into this lending metrics system for consumer lending Western Circle referred 
to in its email to us, and my research (albeit brief) has helped me to understand that this 
system is reliant on research using the credit research agencies. So, I think its highly likely 
that Western Circle did have information about Mr Cs credit situation in May 2019. In the absence of Western Circles records, then its reasonable that we look to see what 
Mr C has been able to provide for us. Reviewing his bank statements  used to see what 
sort of payments he was making to other high cost lenders around that time  and reviewing 
his personal credit file which covered the 2019 period, its clear to me that Mr C had many 
loans and credit commitments. To illustrate the point, on or around 28 May 2019, I can see 
debiting his bank account 14 high cost credit repayment sums for 12 different lenders. These 
repayments amounted to almost £3,000. So Mr C was highly indebted to other lenders at the 
time he applied for loan 2 on or around 23 May 2019.
I am not concluding that Western Circle ought to have carried out a full financial review for a 
second loan as I accept that would be disproportionate in this case. However, I do think that 
Western Circle did have credit bureau information available to it before approving loan 2, 
and that its likely to have captured most, if not all, of these other 14 loans. Mr C had 
declared to it that he was repaying other loans and I think that Western Circle was on notice 
about these, and it ought to have done more research. Western Circle has said that it did do 
more, but it has not been able to send me the evidence and I have used Mr Cs clear 
evidence to provide me with his financial position at the time of loan 2. 
I think that Western Circle saw something in the research it did carry out to justify reducing 
the loan 2 application from £1,000 to £700. The fact it has not been able to produce it for us, 
but Mr C has been able to explain the financial position he was in, assists me to resolve the 
complaint using the information I have been given. 
I am aware that Mr C has mentioned in his application forms that he had a partner who 
seemed to have been earning a relatively high amount, but no information about that partner 
is known. So, on the evidence I have, then I have not factored that income into the equation. 
That partners income has not been verified, and it could be the case that the partner had 
many debts as well. I do not know the situation of the other person and the complaint relates 
to the lending decision made for Mr C. Western Circle has not confirmed that the partners 
salary was an integral part of the creditworthiness assessment it carried out for Mr C.
As I have explained earlier, its not always a pounds and pence calculation: here, it seems 
that Mr C was borrowing to assist him to pay off other debts, as he took the Western Circle 
loan in late May 2019, which I think was deliberate to assist him to repay these other debts 
amounting to a monthly commitment of around £3,000. That is a strong sign of 
unsustainability. In addition, Mr Cs salary, less his credit commitments and his expenditure  
lead me to think he would not have been able to repay the instalments for loan 2 easily or at 
all.  
Overall I am satisfied that Mr C was in a financial position such that it was irresponsible of 
Western Circle to approve additional borrowing. I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Western Circle should fairly pay in this case Ive thought  about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr C from loan 2, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more, or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr C in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Western Circles liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Western Circle ought to do as follows: 
 refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan 2;
 pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 remove any negative payment information about loan 2 from Mr Cs credit file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Western Circle to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and Western Circle Ltd ought to do 
as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman