DRN-3660223
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service provided by Gain Capital UK Limited (Gain) in relation to 
trades in its US Oil May futures contract he made on 20 April 2020. 
What happened
On 20 April 2020 Mr M opened five long positions in Gains US Oil May futures contract, the 
underlying market for which is West Texas Intermediate crude (WTI).
He opened the positions between 18.45 and 19.04 UK time with the market due to expire at 
19.30 UK time. At 19.08 WTI went negative for the first time in its history. The losses initially 
shown on Mr Ms account amounted to $1,647 based on a price of $0.1.
However, the actual price at expiry was minus $37.63. So Gain reviewed all trades and 
adjusted them to bring them in line with the actual price. This led to Mr Ms account being 
adjusted so that his account showed losses amounting to $19,538 and this caused him to 
complain. He said that at no time had the platform displayed negative prices or any ongoing 
losses and that he was unable to close his positions. He said that the losses were incurred 
due to the shortcomings of the platform software and that he could not alter the course of 
events and that the platform hid information from him.
Gain didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that WTI going negative for the first time on 20 
April 2020 created challenges for its settlement process. It said that the settlement price for 
its US Crude Oil May contract didnt reflect the price in the underlying market. It said to 
ensure alignment with the underlying market it simulated market movement based on Mr Ms 
position and calculated where the margin closeout level and adjusted his account 
accordingly. It said that the cash adjustment to Mr Ms account of $19,538 was correct and in 
accordance with its terms and conditions.
It referred to clause 14 Manifest Error and clause 15 Events Outside our Control and 
Market Disruption Events and also clause 26 Limitation of Liability in its terms and 
conditions in support of what it said.
Mr M didnt agree with the outcome of the complaint and referred it to our service. One of our 
investigators considered it and thought the complaint should be upheld. This was on the 
basis that whilst the price of WTI going negative wasnt within Gains control, the platform 
being able to cope with negative prices was. He said that whilst negative prices are rare, 
they can and do happen.
The investigator wasnt satisfied that clause 14 of the terms applied as there wasnt an error 
in pricing. He did think clause 15 of the terms applied in that this allowed Gain to close 
positions and make adjustments to the price if there was an event outside of its control or a 
market disruption event.
The investigator thought redress should be based on what the price of WTI at 19.15 UK time 
when Mr M said he tried to close his position.
Gain didnt agree with the investigator. It said that when the price went negative at 19.08 UK 
time the price was already indicative so was not reflective of the market value. It said that at 
that time it, and the rest of the industry, had not decided if the negative price of the 
underlying was a fair reflection of the market. It said only when that decision had been 
made could positions start to be closed, and this was several hours later.
Gain said there was no price to quote after 19.08 UK time and this was an industry wide 
problem. It said its position is that if a client could show they had tried to get out of their 
positions after 19.08 it would agree to settle at that price. It said being logged on cant be 
seen as an attempt to trade and if the price is greyed out it would expect the client to call the 
desk to make a trade. 
Gain also provided a screenshot which included information it said showed that where a 
client had attempted to make a trade that was unsuccessful the trade is given a red card. It 
said the clients records dont show any attempt at a trade and it is unwilling to rely on what 
Mr M said about making such an attempt. It said that Mr M chose to take a position close to 
zero believing the price could not fall below zero so that if the price of the contract did fall the 
losses would be worth the risk. It pointed out that Mr M could have placed a stop loss but 
chose not to do so.
The matter was then referred to me for review. I issued a provisional decision upholding the 
complaint. In short I didnt think Gain had provided the service it should have done because 
its system was not able to cope with negative prices and it had provided no information 
about this to Mr M before 20 April 2020.
The findings from my provisional decision are set out below.
I have considered what Gain has said about what happened on 20 April 2020 in relation to 
its US Oil May futures contract. I acknowledge that the price of WTI went negative for the 
first time on that day. It has said that this didnt just present a problem for Gain in terms of 
pricing, it is something that affected the whole industry on the day.
I acknowledge that WTI turning negative was something that had never happened before 
and that this didnt just affect Gain. It has sought to argue that it was the uncertainty over 
pricing that arose which meant it was unable to price its US Oil May futures contract and that 
no price was available after 19.08 UK time.
Whilst I acknowledge what Gain has said about the uncertainty of prices that was the cause 
of it not being able to price the contract from what it has said in this complaint and others I 
have considered, it couldnt have priced the contract once it went negative in any event. In 
its email to us enclosing relevant documents in relation to the complaint it said that its 
system was not set up to expire contracts at negative prices so clients were closed at zero.
In other complaints referred to us about what happened on 20 April 2020 Gain informed me 
that its system cannot operate with negative prices. In other words, once the price turned 
negative it couldnt provide prices to clients and clients could not place stop orders or take 
any other steps in relation to their trades.
In short, Gain could not provide a service to clients once prices turned negative. I 
acknowledge what it has said about the price being indicative before it went negative at 
19.08 UK time. However, it could not have provided prices to clients in any event and this 
was something that clients had not been made aware of.
I think this shortcoming in its system was something that it should have made clients aware 
of. The rules in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) set out in the Handbook of the regulator require firms to provide information about their services in good time - COBS 2.2A 
 that allows clients to make investment decisions on an informed basis. I think it is 
reasonable to have expected Gain to provide information about significant limitations in the 
service it provided, such as its platform not providing a service if prices are negative.
There are other rules which I also think are relevant  such as the requirement under COBS 
4.2 to provide clear, fair, and not misleading information. I am not satisfied that Gain 
provided clear or fair information about its services given it failed to inform clients that it 
couldnt provide the service when prices were negative.
As well as informing clients of the limitation in the platform I think it is reasonable to have 
expected it to put in place a process to deal with the situation if prices did turn negative. I am 
aware that it did put in such a process for its US and UK Oil markets a few days after the 
events of 20 April 2020. In short Gain informed clients that if the price dropped below $5 a 
barrel all existing positions would be switched to close only with no ability to add to the 
position until the price went back above $5. It further informed clients that if the price 
dropped to or below $0 it would close any open positions.
Gain may argue that the above process was only implemented as result of what happened 
on 20 April 2020 and it had no reason to put this in place beforehand, given this was the first 
time US Oil had turned negative. However, whilst US Oil turning negative may not have 
happened before that doesnt mean it could never happen such that Gain didnt need to do 
anything regarding the limitation in the service it provided.
Furthermore, I think there was some awareness within the industry as to the possibility of 
negative prices before 20 April 2020. For example in March 2020 there was an article in 
Bloomberg which referred to this, with there being reference to one obscure crude oil market 
already going negative. I have also seen an advisory notice sent by CME Group to its 
clearing members which warned that certain New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) 
energy futures could trade at negative prices or settle at negative values. Gain was not a 
clearing member but I think the point is there were signs negative prices were possible 
before 20 April 2020, which I think it was either aware of or should reasonably have been 
aware of.
In the circumstances I dont think it is unreasonable to have expected Gain to have 
implemented the process it put in place after 20 April 2020 before that date. At the very least 
I think it should have made clients aware of the limitation in its service when it came to its US 
Oil market. If Mr M had known that he would not be able to trade if the prices turned negative 
then I think he may well have made different acted differently in relation to his positions.
I have considered the various clauses that Gain referred to in support off its decision not to 
uphold the complaint. In particular it relies on clause 14 (Manifest Error) - which allows it to 
void, close or amend a trade when there has been a manifest error - and Clause 15 (Events 
Outside Our Control and market Disruption Events)  which allows it to take various steps if 
it determines such an event exists.
I am not persuaded that either of these clauses helps Gain in this case given my findings. In 
any event its inability to provide a service where prices turn negative isnt the result of it 
taking action under either of the above clauses. It might be argued that the adjustment 
applied to Mr Ms account after expiry of the market is something that the clauses allow for. 
However, I dont think that is relevant as I dont think Mr Ms account should have been in a 
position where such an adjustment was necessary in any event.
I said that Gain should put Mr M in the position he would have been in if his positions had 
been closed at zero.I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional decision and providing 
any further information they wanted me to consider before making my final decision. Mr M 
responded and said he agreed with my provisional decision but Gain didnt provide any 
response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have been provided with no additional information or argument following my provisional 
decision and as such have no basis for changing the findings I made in that decision as set 
out above. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision I am upholding this 
complaint.  
Putting things right
I think Mr M should be put in the position he would have been in if Gain had put in place the 
process it put in place after 20 April 2020. On that basis it is reasonable to base redress on 
his positions being closed at zero. I acknowledge that he would not necessarily have got that 
price but I think it is reasonable to use this for the purposes of any redress calculation in the 
circumstances.
I also think Mr M will have been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of 
seeing the losses in his account go from $1,647 to $19,538. I think an award of £300 is fair 
and reasonable for this 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Gain Capital UK Limited must 
calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman