DRN-4185819
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc did not call him back when an automated teller 
machine (ATM) took his money and did not credit it to his account until the following day. 
What happened
On 8 March 2023, Mr A attempted to deposit £1,000 in an ATM outside a Santander branch. 
This did not work, and his cash was returned to him. He attempted this three more times and 
on the last attempt, his cash was taken by the machine and was not credited to his account. 
Mr A says he spent around three hours outside the machine in the rain trying to contact 
Santander and when he got through, he was told the dispute had been logged and he would 
receive a callback the next day. However, he did not receive a callback and the funds were 
credited to his account on 9 March 2023.
Santander apologised and offered Mr A £50 compensation for not calling him back when 
they said they would. However, Mr A declined this as he felt £300 was more reasonable 
considering the time he spent outside dealing with the issue.
Mr A referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They found that 
the deposit had failed as Mr A had reached his 12-month rolling cash deposit limit of £10,000 
and he could not deposit anymore in ATMs. So, they did not think Santander had made an 
error with the cash deposit itself. And they agreed that the £50 compensation offered was 
reasonable for the impact the service provided had on Mr A.
Mr A disagreed with the outcome and as an informal agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer already made of £50 compensation is in line with what I 
would have recommended in the circumstances, and I dont think this should be increased. 
Ill explain why in more detail. 
Mr A was attempting to deposit £1,000 in cash into his account via a Santander ATM outside 
one of their branches. His attempts were rejected three times before the funds were 
eventually taken by the ATM. Santander have evidenced that this was because Mr A had 
reached the £10,000 12-month rolling limit on ATM deposits on his account. 
Santander have provided an account statement addressed to Mr A that sets out the rolling 
annual limit and have evidenced that he had reached this limit by March 2023. In addition, 
Mr A mentioned during the call when he logged this incident that this had happened to him 
once before in December 2022, namely that he had attempted to deposit cash in an ATM 
and it was taken, and it appears this was also due to him reaching his annual limit. 
Considering this, I dont think Santander made an error when Mr As cash was not accepted 
by the ATM.
Santander have provided evidence to show what happened at the specific ATMs that Mr A 
used. These show that when Mr A attempted to make the final deposit on the second ATM, 
the transaction was denied and the notes were presented to him, and when Mr A did not pick 
these up, they were taken by the machine and placed into the reject bin. So, I dont think that 
Santander made an error when the notes were retained by the ATM as it does not appear 
there was a fault with the machine at that time and it followed its usual process when cash is 
not removed from the ATM promptly.
Mr A says he then spent an excessive amount of time trying to contact Santander to report 
the incident. Looking at the ATM logs I can see that the cash was retained at 19:47 and 
looking at Santanders call logs, he was able to get through to a call handler at 19:53 and a 
dispute was logged at 20:19. I think that it is reasonable that reporting an incident will take at 
least some time and I dont consider Mr As waiting times to be excessive here. I do 
appreciate that it was not a pleasant evening weather wise as Mr A has described but I dont 
think Santander can be held responsible or that they should be penalised for this.
I can see that £1,000 was deposited into Mr As account the following day and I think this 
was a reasonable timeframe.
Ive listened to the phone call in which Mr A logged the dispute and I can see that he was 
told he would receive a call from the branch where the ATM was located the following day. 
However, this did not happen, and I can appreciate that it would have been upsetting for    
Mr A to be waiting to find out what had happened to his funds. Ive considered the 
compensation offer of £50 and this is in line with what I would have recommended in the 
circumstances for the lack of a call back. So I do not direct Santander to increase this.   
My final decision
I think the offer of £50 compensation is fair in the circumstances and I do not direct  
Santander UK Plc to increase this. Santander UK Plc should now pay this to Mr A if it has 
not done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman