DRN-2538220
The complaint
Mr D complains that Zurich Insurance PLC avoided his home insurance policy - treated it like 
it never existed - and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr D took out a home insurance policy with Zurich through a broker. When his house was 
broken into, he made a claim to Zurich for the stolen items.
Zurich said Mr D had given incorrect information about the value of his contents when he 
took the policy out. And it said he didnt amend this when he moved address part way 
through the policy either. Zurich said it considered this to be a reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation which entitled it to avoid his policy from when he took it out and refuse his 
claim.
Mr D wasnt happy with this and complained to Zurich. He said the questions asked were 
unclear and doesnt think hes made a qualifying misrepresentation so he thinks Zurich 
should pay his claim. He said he answered the questions honestly and with what he believed 
to be true.
Zurich maintained Mr D had made a qualifying misrepresentation and maintained its decision 
to avoid Mr Ds policy and refuse his claim.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his claim to us. He maintained he hadnt made a 
misrepresentation as he thought the question he was asked was unclear, and the answer he 
gave was what he believed to be true.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She thought Zurich had shown that Mr D had made a qualifying misrepresentation in relation 
the value of his contents. Because of this she thought Zurich was entitled to avoid Mr Ds 
policy and refuse his claim.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He maintains he didnt make a 
misrepresentation and that Zurich should pay his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
As stated, I have considered all the available arguments and evidence on this case. My 
decision focusses on those I think most relevant.
Zurich thinks Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took the policy out, and when he updated where he was living. At both points, Zurich thinks 
Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when asked about the 
amount of contents he wanted to insure. It thinks this because both when the policy was 
taken out with it, and when Mr D changed address, the total sum insured  or the total 
amount Mr D was insured for  was £100,000; the total amount of valuables he was insured 
for was £30,000; and the single item limit for undeclared valuables was £2,500. But after the 
break in, Mr Ds total claim value was approximately £166,000 which included unspecified 
items worth more than £2,500. Zurich said when it sent a loss adjuster to assess the claim, it 
was estimated the total value of Mr Ds contents were approximately £182,000, and the 
approximate value of his valuables was over £60,000.
Mr D doesnt think he failed to take reasonable care. Hes said he understood he was being 
asked how much he wanted to be insured for, not the total value of his contents. And hes 
said he answered that honestly, with what he believed to be true at the time. Hes said a lot 
of the items he claimed for were his partners and that they only moved in part way through 
the policy. And hes said its only when the items were stolen that he assessed their value.
When considering whether Mr D took reasonable care, a number of things need to be 
considered. Whether or not Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation is to be determined in light of all the available circumstances. In this case 
Ive considered what Mr D was asked, how clear the importance and consequences of these 
questions were, what the documentation he was sent explained and the type of policy and its 
target market. As already noted, the standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
In this case Zurich didnt sell Mr D his policy, he purchased it through a broker. This means 
Zurich isnt directly responsible for the questions he was asked when he took out the policy. 
But it is responsible for making sure the documentation he was sent is clear, and that it was 
clear what information it needed from Mr D so Mr D could look at the information hed given 
Zurich and make any changes should that information be incorrect or incomplete.
Mr D has said he thought he was being asked how much he wanted to be insured for, not 
what the total cost of his contents was. Hes said he thought £100,000 cover would be 
enough.
Ive looked at the documentation sent out by Zurich, and the broker which sold Mr D his 
policy, and Im satisfied it was clear that in the contents section, under sum insured Mr D 
was required include the total cost of all his contents, not just the amount he wanted to be 
insured for. I appreciate that the statement of fact for both when the policy was taken out and 
the mid-term adjustment when Mr D moved simply say sum to be insured and contents 
valuables limit and that these read alone may be considered unclear. But these documents 
clearly say they should be read in line with the schedule of insurance. And the schedule 
clearly explains that the contents sum insured needed to represent the cost to replace all 
Mr Ds contents as if they were new. The schedule also makes it clear that this total sum 
insured is inclusive of the valuables and specified items limit. Ive also seen the information Mr D was sent from the broker. This too explains what is meant by sum insured and explains 
what should be included within this.
Based on this, Im satisfied Mr D was asked a clear question when he took out the policy, 
and Im satisfied he was given enough information when he made a mid-term adjustment 
after moving home to allow him to check the information hed given and change it if needed. 
Im satisfied Zurich made it clear that should the information it held about Mr D be incorrect, 
he needed to let them know. Im also satisfied Zurich made it clear in the statement of fact at 
both inception and mid-term adjustment that should the information it held be incorrect, it 
might not pay all or any of Mr Ds claim.
Zurich thinks Mr D failed to take reasonable care as it thinks the £100,000 sum to be insured 
was significantly under the amount Mr D had in the home at inception and at the point he 
moved address. But Mr D disagrees and says most of the items belonged to his partner who 
didnt move in until part way through the policy year. Hes said he believed the answer he 
gave to be true at the time he gave it.
Taking everything into consideration, I think Mr D did fail to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation to Zurich, certainly at the point he moved to a new house part way 
through the policy term and more likely than not at the point the policy was taken out too. 
Looking at everything on the case its unclear when exactly Mr Ds partner moved in with 
him. At one point hes told us this was in January, after the policy was taken out. But in 
another email hes told us they were living together at the time the policy was taken out. 
Even if it was the former, and Mr Ds partner moved in fully after the policy was taken out, 
hes confirmed she was staying there from time to time so its likely some of her items would 
have been at the property at that point.
Under CIDRA, failure to amend details already provided to Zurich can be treated as a 
misrepresentation. When Mr D changed address, he was varying the contract and so was 
under a duty not to make misrepresentation to Zurich. And as the mid-term adjustment 
happened after his partner moved in, Im satisfied he failed to take reasonable care by not 
letting Zurich know that the sum to be insured no longer met his needs.
As mentioned above, Im satisfied Zurich made it clear what it wanted to be included in the 
sum to be insured. I appreciate Mr D said he thought the answer he gave was correct, so 
thinks this means he took reasonable care. But CIDRA says the standard of care is one of a 
reasonable consumer. Looking at the amount being claimed for, and the items being claimed 
for Im satisfied a reasonable consumer would have known £100,000 wouldnt have been 
enough to replace all Mr Ds and his partners contents as new. I say this as the estimated 
cost to do so was significantly more than this at around £182,000.
Even if I consider the question as Mr D said he understood it  that it was just the amount he 
wanted to be insured for  I still think he failed to take reasonable care. I say this because 
the amount claimed for was around £166,000, which again is significantly higher than the 
£100,000 noted on the policy.
I appreciate Mr Ds argument that at the time he took out the policy and at the time he 
moved home he didnt do a detailed assessment of the items and their value. Hes said he 
only did this after making a claim and that it took him and his partner a number of days to 
compile. But I dont think this means he didnt fail to take reasonable care not to 
misrepresent to Zurich. On either interpretation of the information Zurich asked of Mr D  the 
total of all his contents, or the amount he wanted to be insured for  Mr D was under a duty 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And Im not satisfied simply saying 
he believed his answer to be true is evidence enough that he took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation to Zurich.Zurich has provided evidence in the form of its underwriting criteria that shows that it 
wouldnt have offered Mr D insurance had he told it that his contents were valued at more 
than £100,000.
Because Im satisfied Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, 
and Zurich has shown it would have acted differently had Mr D not made the 
misrepresentation, Im satisfied the information Mr D gave in relation to the sum of his 
contents to be insured can be treated as a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. Im 
satisfied a qualifying misrepresentation was made mid-term. At this point its clear Mr Ds 
partner was living with him on a permanent basis. Its less clear whether a qualifying 
misrepresentation was made when the policy was taken out, as its not entirely clear in what 
capacity Mr Ds partner was living with him at that point.
Zurich has said this misrepresentation was reckless. Because of this its said its entitled to 
avoid Mr Ds policy and not deal with his claim. But Zurich has returned Mr D the premiums 
he paid it since he took the policy out. So, in effect, Zurich has treated this misrepresentation 
as careless even if its called it reckless. A careless misrepresentation is the most favourable 
for Mr D, so Im not going to say treating it as such is unfair.
Under CIDRA, Zurich has a number of actions or remedies it can take depending on how it 
treated the misrepresentation. As Im satisfied its fair that Zurich treat this misrepresentation 
as careless, Ive looked at the remedies available to Zurich under CIDRA.
CIDRA says that if Zurich wouldnt have entered into the contract on any terms, its entitled 
to avoid Mr Ds policy and not deal with his claim as a result of this. And as explained above, 
Zurich has shown that had Mr D let it know that his contents were worth more than 
£100,000, it wouldnt have offered him cover. 
Zurich can avoid Mr Ds policy from the point of the misrepresentation. In this case, its 
avoided the policy from when Mr D took it out, not from the mid-term adjustment. I dont think 
this is unfair, even though Im not completely satisfied Mr D made a misrepresentation at the 
point he took the policy out  although I do think its more likely than not that he did. I say 
this because Mr Ds claim came after the mid-term adjustment, so whether his policy is 
avoided from the adjustment or when he took out the policy, Zurich dont need to deal with 
his claim. By avoiding from when Mr D took it out, he has been returned all the premium he 
paid for that policy. This is more favourable than avoiding the policy from the mid-term 
adjustment because if Zurich did this, Mr D would have received less of a return of his 
premium.
On this basis, Im satisfied Zurich was entitled to avoid Mr Ds policy and not deal with his 
claim under CIDRA. And I think avoiding the policy from when Mr D took it out and returning 
the premium hed paid is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman