DRN-3669464
The complaint
Mr H complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined a claim he made on 
his building warranty.
What happened
Mr H made a claim on his building warranty when he noticed rust showing through the 
render of his property.
NHBC declined his claim on the basis that the policy covered him for physical damage, and 
it didnt consider the rust to be physical damage.
Mr H then pointed out that the rust was causing the render to crack too. But NHBC 
maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said the cracking was a result of Mr H not 
maintaining the property, which the policy excluded cover for.
Unhappy, Mr H brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt recommend it be 
upheld. They thought NHBCs decline of Mr Hs claim was ultimately fair. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision which said I was thinking of upholding the complaint. The 
reasons I gave were:
It seems widely accept by both parties that the rusting is caused by beading used in 
the construction of Mr Hs house. This is further supported by the relevant guidelines 
recommending these beads to be either stainless steel or PVC  both of which are 
incapable of rusting. The relevant technical requirements require rendering to be 
detailed to ensure appropriate weather tightness and durability. And based on what 
Ive seen, Im not persuaded this had been achieved. Had it been, its unlikely Mr Hs 
render would be rusting and cracking.
The first dispute centres first around whether the damage is physical. And Im 
persuaded it is. Mr Hs policy doesnt define physical damage, and so any damage 
that relates to a physical part of the property could arguably be considered physical 
damage. I appreciate NHBC has said it considers physical damage to be that which 
is clearly visible and impairs performance as well as being more than purely 
cosmetic, but this isnt in Mr Hs policy. And Im satisfied the claim meets that 
definition regardless. Rust can be considered damaging in itself and can progress 
and cause further deterioration. This looks likely to be the case here following the 
cracking to the render, so Im satisfied its reasonable to consider it to be physical 
damage.
The second dispute surrounds the maintenance of the property. NHBC suggest Mr H 
hasnt done enough in this respect to stop the rust, and that its progression to cause 
cracks in the render is a result of that lack of maintenance. Its said this because 
when the claim was presented, there was no mention of cracking. But Im not 
persuaded this is fair. The rust should not have occurred in the first place, and as set 
out above I do consider the rust to be physical damage in itself. Had the rust not 
occurred, I think its likely the cracking wouldnt have either. Whats more, as the 
rusting is being caused by an internal bead, covered by render, it isnt clearly visible, 
or accessible. This issue is therefore likely to keep occurring. And even if possible, I 
dont find it reasonable to require Mr H to have to keep his render rust free, if the 
cause of the rust is due to the technical requirements not being followed in the first 
instance. I think this goes beyond reasonable maintenance. So, I dont find it 
reasonable that NHBC rely on the gradually operating clause to decline Mr Hs claim.
Based on the above points, I said I was thinking of requiring NHBC to reconsider Mr Hs 
claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy without relying on the gradual 
deterioration clause and on the basis that the rusting was physical damage.
Both Mr H and NHBC accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from its reasoning or conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require National House-Building 
Council to:
Reconsider Mr Hs claim on the basis that the rusting is physical damage, in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy without relying on the gradual 
deterioration clause.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman