DRN-2648153
The complaint
 Mr W says that Perrys Motor Sales Limited (Perrys) mis-sold him a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a car purchase in 
November 2006.
 
What happened
 Mr W was sold the PPI at the same time as he arranged his car finance. The PPI was 
intended to protect his car loan repayments and provided cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the policy was 
a suitable recommendation because he thought Mr W would have difficulty making a 
successful unemployment claim and so the policy shouldnt have been recommended.
Perrys disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Perrys has provided us with a copy of the finance agreement which shows that PPI has 
been added. Given that the PPI sale happened so long ago Perrys unfortunately no 
longer has the sale paperwork for the PPI. But Perrys has told us that taking out the PPI 
would have been discussed with Mr W at the time. So based on the advice and 
recommendation he received from Perrys Mr W decided to take out the policy. Perrys 
therefore needed to ensure that the PPI was suitable for his situation.
However, I dont think the policy was suitable for Mr W because I dont think he wouldve 
been able to successfully claim on the policy for unemployment. I will explain why.
When Mr W made first made his complaint to us it appeared from his complaint details 
that he was in permanent employment. Mr W has since explained to us that his 
permanent employment came to an end in October 2006, which was before he took out 
the PPI. Mr W then found employment on a temporary basis and this was the job where 
he was working when Perrys sold him his PPI. To back this up, Mr W has given us a 
copy of his contract of employment which confirms that Mr W was being employed by 
his new employer on a temporary basis and for a fixed term. 
Perrys hasnt been able to give us a copy of the actual policy terms that applied at the 
time. But having looked at a copy of the policy document that was issued in January 
2005, I can see that Mr W would have been excluded from making an unemployment 
claim on the policy because at the time of sale he was a temporary worker. The relevant 
policy wording says:
We will not pay benefit if you are at the date of your unemployment working under a 
fixed-term contract of employment, the term of which will expire before the repayment 
date; or  working on a specific task or job and the completion of this task or job has 
resulted in your unemployment.
It follows that the policy would be of no use to Mr W if hed tried to make a claim whilst 
employed on a temporary or fixed-term basis. 
When recommending the PPI, the Perrys sales advisor shouldve checked that Mr W 
wouldve been able to benefit from the whole policy. Had Perrys properly assessed 
Mr Ws employment situation they wouldve realised that Mr W couldnt make a 
successful claim for unemployment and shouldve advised him of this. 
All of this means that I dont think Mr W would have taken out the PPI if Perrys had 
made this exclusion clear. 
I therefore think that Perrys sold Mr W a policy that was unsuitable for his situation and 
that he lost out as a result. 
It follows that I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Putting things right
  Mr W borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and 
he paid more than he shouldve each month. So Mr W needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Perrys should:
- Work out and pay Mr W the difference between what he paid each month on the 
loan and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr W paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Perrys can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Perrys to take off tax from this interest.
Perrys must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Perrys Motor Sales 
Limited and direct they pay the fair compensation outlined above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman