DRN-4172059
The complaint
Mr M complains about the defined benefit pension scheme transfer advice process 
undertaken by Origen Financial Services Limited. 
What happened
In 2021 Mr M and his wife were considering helping their daughters to buy a property each. 
After considering all their options, Mr and Mrs M agreed that the best one for the family as a 
whole would be for Mr M to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension scheme to a personal 
pension plan and to use the tax-free cash (TFC) accessible under the new pension (which 
Mr M estimated would be approximately £50,000) to share between his daughters so they 
could put it towards a deposit on a property. 
As Mr M was himself an independent financial adviser (IFA) he knew of Origen and that it 
was regulated to provide DB transfer advice. Mr M contacted Origen and decided to proceed 
with using its services principally because it offered both an abridged and full advice service 
along with an insistent client option. 
Mr M completed a fact-find and sent it back to Origen in early March 2022. The fact-find 
noted Mr Ms current circumstances and objectives which were: -
Mr and Mrs M were aged 55 and 53 respectively had a combined annual income of 
£81,000 and combined outgoings of £49,572 which they expected to fall to £29,112 
in retirement. 
The DB schemes cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £197,250 and expired 
on 21 June 2022. It had a normal retirement date (NRD) of age 60.
Mr and Mrs Ms home was valued at £400,000 on which they had an outstanding 
mortgage of £140,000 which had 11 years to run. They were making overpayments 
on their mortgage and hoped to clear it in the next 7 years. 
Mr and Mrs M had other unsecured debts of £7,679 which would be cleared by 2024 
along with savings of £6,000. They had no other investments or savings aside from 
Mr Ms share in his business which he estimated was worth £300,000. Mr M hoped 
his shareholding would increase in value to £500,000 by the time he exited the 
business at retirement. 
The earliest Mr M thought hed retire was age 63 but he would be willing to work to 
his state retirement age of 67. Mr M didnt see himself needing to draw a pension 
income before age 63.
That Mr Ms objective was to accept his DB schemes CETV and transfer it to a 
personal pension so he could use the TFC to gift each of his daughters £25,000 for a 
house deposit.
Mr M had no other surplus funds to achieve his objective of helping his daughters 
onto the property ladder. 
Mr M intended that the remainder of his transferred DB scheme would be added to 
his existing personal pension plan where it would remain invested until he retired.
Mr M felt he had sufficient secure retirement income in the form of Mrs Ms own two 
DB schemes along with their state pensions such that he saw no value in receiving 
further secure income from his own DB scheme. So, he felt the family would benefit 
far more from transferring the DB scheme now than waiting until his NRD to collect 
TFC of £29,884 and an annual pension of £4,483. 
He didnt want to take out any additional borrowing to help fund the gifts as he was 
aiming to be debt free within the next few years. 
That Mrs M had a defined contribution (DC) scheme as well as her two DB 
schemes. 
As an IFA himself Mr M understood the regulators starting point for DB scheme 
transfers was that they were unsuitable. He also understood he would be giving up a 
guaranteed income in retirement and taking on the investment risk of a DC pension 
but he felt this was outweighed by the importance of being able to assist his 
daughters now.
Mr M had extensive financial knowledge and experience and a moderately 
adventurous attitude to risk. 
Mr M said he wanted Origen to analyse whether it would be beneficial to transfer his DB 
scheme under its abridged advice process. 
Origen sent Mr M its abridged advice report on 28 April 2022. In accordance with the 
regulators rules, the report stated that there were only two possible outcomes Origen could 
either provide to Mr M namely, a recommendation that he remain in his DB scheme or, a 
conclusion that it was unclear from the information provided whether or not he would benefit 
from transferring his DB scheme without undertaking full pension transfer advice. Origen 
concluded that it was unclear from the information provided whether or not Mr M would 
benefit from transferring his DB scheme so it suggested he use its full advice service the 
cost of which would be £3,552.54 (this included the cost of the abridged advice). Mr M 
signed the abridged advice report to say he wished to proceed with the full advice service 
and returned it to Origen on 5 May 2022. 
Origen proceeded with the provision of its full advice service, sending Mr M a copy of its 
suitability report on 30 May 2022. Origen also completed a pension transfer analysis and 
also a cashflow analysis. The pension transfer analysis included a transfer value comparator 
that showed that the estimated replacement cost of Mr Ms DB scheme retirement income 
was £268,832 which was £71,468 more than the value of his CETV. The critical yield  the 
growth rate required to provide the same benefits at age 60 as Mr Ms DB scheme (joint life, 
TFC and a reduced pension)  was 7.6%. 
Origen recommended that a transfer wasnt in Mr Ms best interests due to him wanting to 
retire in seven years time and the fact his anticipated retirement expenditure could change 
within this period. It said that due to this timescale, retaining the DB scheme and potentially 
revisiting a transfer at a later date was more suitable in his circumstances. It said staying in 
the DB scheme meant Mr M would be retaining a valuable secure increasing income.
Origen also said that whilst Mr M wanted to release TFC to help his daughters on to the 
property ladder, the primary objective of a pension is to provide an income in retirement. It 
also said that Mr M had other DC pensions that could be used to provide some of the capital 
required for his daughters and any shortfall could be met by either waiting for two years until 
Mrs M could access her pensions or by other means such as taking on additional borrowing. 
Finally, Origen said there was uncertainty around the timescale for Mr M selling his business 
and around how much he might obtain for it. Origen said this uncertainty meant that the 
business couldnt be relied upon to provide additional income in retirement until the figures 
and timeline became clearer. Origen said it was unable to clearly demonstrate that giving up 
the guaranteed benefits associated with his DB scheme was in Mr Ms best interests. Mr M emailed Origen to reject its recommendation and said he wished to pursue a different 
course of action to that which it had recommended. Origen asked Mr M to provide it with a 
statement explaining why he disagreed with its advice and confirming what action he wanted 
it to take. 
Mr M responded by reiterating what his objectives were in making the transfer, how he didnt 
want his daughters to wait two years before getting on the housing ladder, how he didnt 
want to take on any additional borrowing, that he and Mrs M had other pension provision that 
would cover his retirement expenditure and that if he couldnt sell his business he would 
continue to work until state retirement age. Mr M said he wanted Origen to facilitate the 
transfer of his DB scheme and that he understood the risks associated with doing so. He 
also said he understood that any transfer was against Origens personal recommendation. 
Origen proceeded to consider Mr Ms request on an insistent client basis. Having done so, 
Origen concluded that it wasnt comfortable proceeding on such a basis. It referred Mr M to 
its terms of business where it stated that it wasnt compelled to proceed on an insistent client 
basis if it didnt wish to. 
Unhappy with Origens recommendation and the reasons it gave for it, Mr M complained. 
Specifically he said: -
Hed understood Origen was a firm of IFAs only to later discover it offered restricted 
advice so couldnt transfer Mr Ms DB scheme to his existing DC scheme as the 
provider wasnt on its restricted list.
He did not have sufficient capital nor did he want to take on any additional borrowing 
to facilitate his objective. Transferring his DB scheme was the only way to meet his 
objective of releasing capital to assist his daughters and he understood the 
investment risk associated with the transfer. 
His and Mrs Ms state pensions along with Mrs Ms two DB schemes were more than 
enough to cover their essential outgoings at state pension age. 
It was known at the outset that he had no need for additional income at that point.
Some of the reasons Origen gave for its recommendation were generic, for example 
that the primary objective of a pension is to provide an income in retirement.
Origens position for clients not intending to access their funds within the next five 
years is not to recommend a transfer  it knew this applied to him from the outset 
and, in any event, he wanted to access his TFC from his fund now. It was income he 
didnt need prior to retirement. 
Any uncertainty around the sale of his business wasnt a reason not to recommend a 
transfer. It was also strange that Origen hadnt included any value from the sale of 
Mr Ms business in its cashflow forecast. 
The pension transfer analysis/transfer value comparator assumptions nearly always 
show a shortfall in the fund value required to purchase the same guaranteed benefits 
but transferring his DB scheme was more important to him and his family than a 
£4,483 pension and £29,000 TFC at age 60. 
A lot of Origens recommendations were based on the cashflow analysis in which 
there were errors which had the effect of making Origens recommendation that he 
remain in his DB scheme look more attractive. 
The insistent client process was declined with no explanation other than he should 
refer to the reasons for the original recommendation. Mr M said he ticked all the 
boxes required for this to be approved. 
Mr M said his objectives were clear from the outset. He understood the difference 
between a want and a need and he considered his objective to be a need.
It wasnt true to say he could retain his DB scheme and still achieve his objective  
by retaining it he could not give his daughters £25,000 each unless he took out additional borrowing which he did not want to do. If Origen had always intended to 
recommend he achieve his objective by taking on additional borrowing, then it should 
have said so at the outset. 
His request to Origen to explain the reasons behind its recommendation was 
declined on the grounds it had already carried out a full investigation. 
Origen looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that although the 
recommendation may not have been one that Mr M agreed with, it had a professional 
responsibility to recommend what was most suitable and in his best interests. On reviewing 
its processes it thought that there was sufficient information to warrant full advice being 
recommended. Origen said that taking full advice didnt guarantee a recommendation to 
transfer. 
Origen went on to say that the basis on which it provided clients with advice was clearly set 
out in its terms of business including that it provided restricted advice. It also said that its 
terms of business made it clear that it was under no obligation to accept insistent client 
requests nor was it compelled to provide the reasons behind such decisions. Origen said it 
appreciated that Mr M felt he hadnt received adequate reasoning but the fact remained, 
after careful consideration, that it didnt agree with assisting him with the transfer. Origen 
said Mr M retained the option to engage another firm to arrange the transfer should he so 
wish. 
Origen accepted that there had been some errors in its cash flow modelling and apologised. 
It said a requested re-run of the cashflow forecast had also not been undertaken for which it 
also apologised. For the shortfalls in its service, Origen reduced its advice fee by £200 for 
the frustration and inconvenience it had caused Mr M. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Origens investigation into his complaint, Mr M complained to 
this service. Our Investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. 
She said she thought Origens advice not to transfer was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Nor did she think Origen had treated Mr M unfairly in respect of its insistent client process. 
Insofar as it used incorrect information when completing the cashflow analysis, our 
Investigator thought Origens offer of £200 for any distress and inconvenience this caused 
was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr M disagreed with our Investigators findings, largely repeating points he had previously 
made. Our Investigator thought about what Mr M had said but wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind. 
The complaint was referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr M that Ive reviewed all the evidence and noted all the points he has 
made, as Ive detailed in the background section above, including his most recent 
correspondence dated 19 June 2023. In making my findings I may not comment on each 
individual point thats been made but I would like to reassure Mr M that I have considered 
everything. Although I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I dont think his 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
As an IFA himself, I appreciate that Mr M will be familiar with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Handbook and, in particular, COBS 19.1.6G where it is stated that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, financial 
advisers should only consider transferring a DB scheme if it can be clearly demonstrated, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer is in its clients best interests. 
One of the considerations that the advising firm must take into account is whether the 
transfer would be financially viable. Even where a transfer isnt financially viable there can be 
other compelling reasons that mean it would still be suitable in that individuals 
circumstances. But where a firm or an adviser is to go against the FCAs starting position, 
and particularly where a transfer isnt financially viable, it needs to demonstrate that there 
are other compelling reasons that make the transfer in a clients best interests. To do so the 
advising firm needs to consider the benefits of the DB scheme against a clients individual 
circumstances, their overall retirement provisions and their financial needs at the time of the 
advice. 
I can see from the file that Mr M accepts the FCAs starting assumption for DB transfers and 
that he appreciates the need to assess the financial viability of any transfer through the 
production of the pension transfer analysis and the transfer value comparator. So I wont 
dwell on these points, rather Ill now look at his complaint about the advice process and the 
service he received from Origen. For ease of reference Ill use the same sub-headings as 
our Investigator. 
Advice process
I can see that at the start of Mr Ms engagement with Origen he was made aware, and 
understood, that it followed a two-stage advice process for DB transfer advice clients. The 
first stage was to provide abridged advice and then, depending on which of the two 
recommendations were made, it could proceed to provide full advice. Firms authorised to 
provide DB transfer advice need to follow specific rules when providing an abridged advice 
service which include the completion of a fact-find to obtain details of a clients 
circumstances along with ascertaining their attitude to risk. I can see that Origen complied 
with these requirements prior to issuing its abridged advice report. 
A significant part of Mr Ms complaint relates to the fact that several of the reasons given by 
Origen for not recommending the transfer were known to it at the time it gave the abridged 
advice. Mr M has referred to certain circumstances being red lines for Origen which, if it 
knew they existed at the abridged advice stage and was not prepared to cross them, it 
should have made that clear to him at the outset. I agree that some of the information relied 
on by Origen for its recommendation not to transfer was indeed recorded in the fact-find. The 
gathering of such information at the abridged advice stage is required by the FCA. But the 
FCA also prohibits advisers from carrying out certain other assessments at this stage. COBS 
19.1A.6 states: 
A firm must not carry out appropriate pension transfer analysis and/or prepare a transfer 
value comparator and/or consider the proposed arrangement when providing abridged 
advice to a retail client.
This means neither the pension transfer analysis nor the transfer value comparator could be 
carried out at the abridged advice stage. So whilst Origen had obtained lots of information at 
the abridged advice stage, it concluded that it was unclear from the information it did have 
whether Mr M would benefit from transferring his DB scheme. Consequently, Origen felt it 
was in Mr Ms best interests to recommend that he proceed to its full advice service. I dont 
think that was an unreasonable conclusion for Origen to have reached; it decided that a 
fuller analysis was needed before being able to provide Mr M with a recommendation about 
his DB scheme transfer. During the full advice process, Origen produced the pension transfer analysis and the 
transfer value comparator so Im satisfied that it followed the FCAs guidance in this respect. 
In any event, as Mr Ms CETV was greater than £30,000 he had to obtain full advice if he 
wanted to transfer his DB scheme. But I can see too that no guarantee was given by Origen 
that proceeding to full advice would result in a recommendation to transfer. It stated in the 
abridged advice report, It is important to be aware that the outcome of our full pension 
transfer advice service may be a recommendation that you should remain in the [DB 
scheme].
So whilst Origen felt it needed to carry out further analysis in order to provide a 
recommendation in the form of full advice, it was clear with Mr M that this didnt mean a 
transfer was certain to be recommended. 
It follows that I dont think Origen treated Mr M unfairly by following the two-stage process for 
DB transfers nor do I think its actions during the process were in any way unreasonable, 
misleading or failed to follow the regulators rules and guidance. I accept that Mr M was 
unhappy with the outcome but I cant reasonably say that Origen did anything wrong when 
carrying out the process of assessing whether to recommend Mr M should transfer his DB 
scheme. 
Inaccurate information and reasons not to transfer
Mr M complains that Origen based its recommendation on some incorrect information, 
specifically in the cashflow forecast. For its part, Origen accepts that there were some errors 
in the original cashflow forecast and has apologised to Mr M. It has reproduced the 
modelling using the correct information but has stated that this still hasnt changed the 
outcome of the advice. Ive not seen any evidence that Origen hasnt now corrected the 
information, however, regardless of the outcome of the forecast, an adviser can only make a 
recommendation thats in the best interests of its client. And here Origen concluded, after all 
the analysis was undertaken, that transferring his DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best 
interests. So whilst the original cashflow contained inaccuracies, Ive seen no evidence that 
had it not, then the recommendation would have been any different. 
Mr M had one objective in transferring his DB scheme, namely, to access the available TFC 
after the transfer to give to his daughters for house deposits. I can appreciate Mr Ms 
intentions and that he was willing to sacrifice his valuable DB benefits so he could help his 
daughters in this way. And I can appreciate his frustration too in not being able to help his 
daughters get on the property ladder as hed hoped. But however personally compelling a 
clients reasons for transferring are, the fact remains that the adviser isnt there just to 
facilitate and transact what a client wants. An advisers job is to advise on, and act in, the 
best interests of its client. And Origen was of the view that it wasnt in Mr Ms best interests 
to give up a guaranteed indexed-linked retirement income particularly when uncertainty 
existed around the timescale for Mr M selling his business and the amount he might obtain 
for it. 
I know that Mr M thinks that the reasons given by Origen for its recommendation are 
inconsequential. And I know he considers the need to access his TFC as a need rather 
than a want. He has said too that there isnt enough TFC available in his DC scheme for 
him to achieve his objective and that it makes no sense to utilise all of his savings thereby 
leaving himself with no emergency fund. He also doesnt want to take on any additional 
borrowing at his point in life and thinks its financially unsound for his daughters to continue to 
pay rent for another two years. 
Whilst I can fully understand Mr Ms viewpoint, I have to consider if Origen has had regard to 
the regulators rules and guidance when advising him. And in that regard it is required to consider other viable options as a means to achieving a clients objective. And Im satisfied 
that it did so. I accept that Mr M has very valid reasons of his own for not agreeing with the 
alternative ways of achieving his objective that Origen has suggested. But that doesnt mean 
Origen needed to recommend the transfer. Having conducted a full analysis of Mr Ms 
financial situation against the backdrop of the regulatory requirements, Origen didnt believe 
that a transfer was suitable for him. And, having thought about this very carefully, in the 
context of the FCAs requirements for advising firms, I think its conclusions were reasonable. 
Insistent client process
Mr M has said he feels that Origen led him to believe that his transfer could still go ahead 
through using its insistent client process. Consequently he felt misled, and let down, when 
Origen declined to accede to his request. 
Ive thought about whether Origen misled Mr M but I dont think it did. Origens terms of 
business clearly stated its insistent client position. There it said:
should you reject our recommendation and wish to pursue a different course of action 
Origen may consider facilitating your request. However, please note Origen are not duty 
bound to accept any client requests as we do not have to accept client instructions.
So I can see that Origen made it clear to Mr M at the start that it was under no obligation to 
accept insistent client requests.
I can see that Origen offered the insistent client process to Mr M during a call that followed 
his receipt of its suitability/full advice report. I think that it was fair for Origen to make the 
offer to Mr M in the circumstances as it was an option it had said it would consider 
facilitating. And whilst Mr M thought the insistent client process would just be waived 
through by Origen as a tick box exercise, Ive seen no evidence that any such guarantee 
was given. As Ive said above, I think the terms of business are clear about the basis on 
which Origen offers this service. 
Origen has to treat its customers fairly and provide them with information that is clear and 
not misleading. From the evidence Ive seen I think its done this. I think Origen was clear 
with Mr M from the outset that any request to pursue a different course of action from the 
recommendation it had made would be considered. And I can see that this is what it did. Ive 
seen no evidence it promised to facilitate such a request. 
I can understand that Mr M wants to know why Origen wouldnt facilitate his insistent client 
request but it is at Origens discretion as to whether it wants to disclose its reasons. I cant 
compel it to disclose why it declined to facilitate Mr Ms request. It has said that after careful 
consideration it didnt agree with assisting him and that isnt a decision I can fairly interfere 
with. 
Summary
Its my role to decide if Origen has treated Mr M fairly and reasonably in the course of 
advising and providing him with its recommendation and, for the reasons Ive given here, I 
think it has. 
Origen is permitted by the FCA to offer and pursue a two-stage advice process in respect of 
DB scheme transfers. Ive not seen any evidence that it departed from the rules and 
guidance laid down by the FCA in the course of its dealings with Mr M. Ultimately, Origen felt 
unable to demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter but I dont think Origen made an unreasonable 
recommendation.
I understand that Mr M feels that Origen should have been more open about being a 
restricted advice firm and about what providers it would be able to recommend in the event it 
agreed the transfer was suitable. 
I can see that the terms of business provided to Mr M at the outset set out that Origen was a 
restricted advice firm. And Ive seen nothing to indicate that the providers it could have 
recommended wouldnt have been suitable for Mr M. In any event, Origen also explained 
that it would have been able to offer Mr M a transfer route which would have meant his fund 
could have ended up at his chosen provider (which I understand to be his existing DC 
scheme). But as Origens advice was not to proceed with the transfer I cant reasonably 
conclude this caused any impact to Mr M. 
Origen hasnt disputed that there were errors in the original cash flow forecast nor that it 
failed to provide an updated forecast to Mr M when first requested by him. For these errors 
Origen apologised and offered to deduct £200 from its invoice for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused him. I think thats fair in Mr Ms circumstances. Where a firm, 
through its words and deeds, causes trouble and upset above and beyond that which is 
normally associated with the matter being transacted, this service can require it to pay a 
consumer compensation. 
Ive thought about the amount Origen has offered Mr M and I think it is in line with awards 
this service has made in complaints of a similar nature. Indeed, had this complaint passed 
across my desk without an award of compensation being made, it is unlikely that I would 
have awarded any more than this. It follows that I think that Origen has fairly and reasonably 
compensated Mr M for the distress and inconvenience its error caused him. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Mr M will have been hoping for but, taking all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint into account and for the reasons Ive set out above, this 
isnt a complaint I can fairly or reasonably uphold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman