DRN-1611911
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about an entry Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc made about them on a fraud 
prevention database following a mortgage application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S applied to BoI for a mortgage. It considered and rejected their application. It 
said they hadnt disclosed missed payments on a mortgage and other debts in their 
application, so hadnt completed it fully and accurately. As a result, it made an entry on the 
database.
Mr and Mrs S were turned down for other mortgages on their buy to let properties. They then 
discovered the marker and complained to BoI, asking for it to be removed. BoI didnt agree, 
so Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its standard that, when considering an application, a lender carries out underwriting checks 
 which includes checking credit records.
On the initial application call, Mr and Mrs S were asked about whether they had any County 
Court judgments, or whether they had been declared bankrupt. Following that call, they were 
sent an application form to complete, check and return. 
The application form asked, in addition, whether Mr and Mrs S had ever been in arrears with 
rent, mortgage payments or loans. Mr and Mrs S answered no to this question. They signed 
and returned the application form to BoI.
As part of its underwriting checks, BoI checked their credit files and found that, in fact, there 
had been missed payments on joint buy to let mortgages and on loans. BoI considered that 
Mr and Mrs S had not given accurate answers, and it was for that reason that it added an 
entry to the fraud prevention database as well as refusing their mortgage application.
Mr and Mrs S accept that they had in fact missed some payments, so the information they 
had given on the application wasnt correct. But they told our investigator that they hadnt 
understood the question or had made a mistake, or hadnt actually intended to make a 
mortgage application  they were just enquiring about rates.
I dont think this was a mere enquiry. Mr and Mrs S had gone quite a long way down the 
process of making a formal mortgage application. BoI sent them the form partially completed 
after their phone conversation. So I dont know for sure who actually ticked the no box  
BoI or Mr and Mrs S. However, even if it was BoI, it was still Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility to 
check and confirm the accuracy of everything on the form before signing to confirm it was 
accurate and returning it. And I think the wording of the question on the form is clear, and I dont think its likely that Mr 
and Mrs S  who have several other mortgages  didnt understand it. 
In all the circumstances, and taking into account the required standard of proof for a marker 
to be put onto the database, I dont think BoI acted unreasonably, and I dont think I can 
fairly ask it to remove the marker now.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman