DRN-2212416
The complaint
Mr G complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined his claim.
What happened
Mr G had home insurance with Great Lakes. In 2019, his wifes finger became swollen and
she had to have her engagement ring cut off as it was restricting blood flow to her finger. As
a result of the damage to the ring, it was unrepairable, and Mr G has arranged to reuse the
diamonds from the ring and have them recast into a new ring at a cost of over £600.
Mr G made a claim on his policy with Great Lakes under the accidental damage section of
his home insurance policy for the cost of having the new ring made. Great Lakes declined
the claim. It said that a swollen finger would have happened gradually and therefore wasnt
covered under the terms of the policy.
On 1 August 2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
This insurance policy, like all insurance policies, doesnt cover every eventuality. So Ive
considered whether the circumstances of this claim meet the terms of the policy and are
therefore covered by it. Or if there are any relevant exclusions that mean the policy wouldnt
cover this situation.
I have reviewed the terms of the policy, which state we will not pay for damage caused by
wear and tear or any other gradually operating cause. The accidental damage section of the
policy also states that accidental damage is damage caused as a direct result of a single
unexpected event.
Great Lakes says Mr G told him during the initial conversation that the swelling had occurred
over time, however Mr G doesnt agree. He says the swelling was sudden and his wife didnt
have time to remove the ring.
Generally I wouldnt consider swelling to be a single unexpected event in the same way as
an accident or similar event. But I have also considered if there is any other evidence of
whether the swelling was sudden or gradual. The report that Mr G provided from the
ambulance service that was called out to attend to his wife states that the ring needed to be
cut off due to the gradual onset of swelling. Therefore, it would seem that the only medical
opinion we have in this case considers that the swelling was gradual rather than sudden as
Mr G has said.
The policy is clear that it doesnt cover any gradually operating cause  which appears to
have been the case here. So it follows that I dont think Great Lakes was incorrect to decline
the claim.
Great Lakes didnt respond to my decision but Mr G responded to say he disagreed as he 
says the swelling happened suddenly and if it had been gradual, his wife would have 
removed the ring.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Gs response to my provisional decision but the information hes 
provided doesnt change my decision. He has said that the swelling was sudden and 
developed rapidly and unexpectedly, as he has maintained throughout the complaint.
But the only impartial, medical opinion in this case is from the ambulance report which 
confirms the swelling was gradual. And Mr Gs comments that the swelling happened over 
the course of a day also dont suggest to me that the event was sudden, although the 
incident seems to have happened over a fairly short period of time. And while I appreciate 
that Mr Gs wife didnt notice any early signs, that isnt the same as the event happening 
suddenly.
So while I think this event took place over a short period of time, likely over the course of a 
day, I dont think I can fairly conclude that the swelling happened suddenly. And it follows 
that I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly in declining this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman