DRN-2968491
The complaint
Mr V has complained about the service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds 
breakdown assistance provider, who Ill refer to as CA, after he called them and they sent 
out one of their agents to assist him with a flat tyre. 
What happened
Mr V called CA when he had a flat tyre on his vehicle. They sent one of their agents and 
while the agent was trying to change the wheel one of the wheel nuts on the wheel broke. As 
the agent couldnt repair this or change the wheel at the roadside, CA suggested they take 
the vehicle to the garage whod previously replaced the tyres, so they could sort out the 
issue. Mr V agreed to this and the vehicle was taken to the garage. However, they couldnt 
sort out the problem with the wheel, so CA arranged for Mr Vs vehicle to be taken to his 
home address. 
Mr V contacted CA to complain about what had happened and asked for a courtesy vehicle 
to use until his vehicle had been fixed. However, CA would only offer to take the vehicle to a 
garage of Mr Vs choice for the wheel to be fixed. And then to consider reimbursing the cost 
of this as part of their investigation into his complaint. 
After theyd investigated his complaint, CA wrote to Mr V on behalf of Admiral saying that 
they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. Mr V wasnt happy with CAs response and 
asked us to consider his complaint about them. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Vs complaint. He wrote to Mr V and explained that 
he didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show CAs agent had done anything wrong. 
And he felt Admiral, through CA, had fulfilled their obligations when providing the breakdown 
service to Mr V. So, he didnt think Admiral needed to do anything further. He did explain to 
Mr V that if he could provide further evidence to show that CAs agent had been negligent 
when damaging the wheel nut, he would be able to reconsider the matter.
Mr V has not provided any further evidence, but has asked for an ombudsmans decision, 
which is something he is entitled to under our rules. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether CA on behalf of Admiral did anything wrong when providing the 
breakdown service to Mr V. And I dont think they did. I think the most likely reason for the 
wheel nut breaking was that it had been overtightened by the garage who last changed the 
tyre on that wheel when they put the wheel back on. CAs agent wouldnt have known this 
and therefore it seems he made a reasonable attempt to undo the wheel nut, so he could 
change the wheel on the vehicle. As a result, the wheel nut broke, but I think this was an 
unexpected and unavoidable consequence of the nut being too tight. After this, I think CAs 
suggestion of taking the vehicle to the garage that had previously changed the tyre was 
reasonable. And  once it became clear this garage couldnt help  I think CA acted 
reasonably in taking Mr Vs vehicle to his home address. 
And, having checked the terms and conditions of the breakdown policy Mr V had, I am 
satisfied that CAs actions mean Admiral fulfilled their obligations under the policy. 
I appreciate Mr V thinks CA should have agreed to provide him with a courtesy vehicle while 
they investigated the issue with the wheel.  But they werent obliged to do this under the 
terms of the policy. And I think their offer to take the car to a garage, for Mr V to pay for the 
repairs and for them to then consider reimbursing the cost was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
From what I can gather Mr V thinks that it was up to CA to prove their agent didnt do 
anything wrong. But the evidence suggests they didnt do anything wrong and therefore I 
dont think CA needed to do any more.
As I dont think CA on behalf of Admiral did anything wrong, its not appropriate for me to 
uphold Mr Vs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Vs complaint against 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman