DRN-2831848
The complaint
The estate of Mr Y has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold Mr Y 
an Additions account that was taken out between May 1996 and March 1997.
The estate of Mr Y says that the account was mis-sold as Mr Y did not need any of the 
benefits that the account came with.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt think the Additions account had 
been mis-sold. The representative of the estate of Mr Y disagreed and so the complaint has 
been referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case. I think it might help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
The first thing I need to consider is whether Mr Y was given a fair choice as to whether to 
take out the account. I can see that Mr Y had held a fee-free account for a number of years 
prior to the upgrade. So, I think that he wouldve been aware that Barclays offered fee-free 
accounts and that they were an option for him. The representative for this complaint states 
that she believes that Mr Y taking out the account was linked to several investments that Mr 
Y made. Ive looked into this, but the investments that Mr Y made were not taken out at the 
same time as the account was likely taken out. So, I dont think the two things are linked. 
I note that when this account was taken out it cost £5 per month and came with an interest-
free overdraft buffer zone of £100. And by having the Additions account, Mr Y would not 
have to pay the £5 monthly overdraft usage fee (which was applicable to fee-free accounts). 
I can see that from the earliest records that Barclays hold, Mr Y did regularly use his 
overdraft. It follows that I think that it is likely that he was using it around the time of the 
upgrade, as after all, this benefit was the main benefit this account came with at the time. 
So, it is likely that having the Additions account meant that he was likely to have saved 
money on a monthly basis when it was initially taken out, compared to what he wouldve 
been charged in interest and charges to use his overdraft on a fee-free account. 
I note that the representative for this complaint states that Barclays did not charge £5 a 
month to use an overdraft on a fee-free account. But I am satisfied from what I know of 
Barclays accounts that there was a £5 monthly charge for when an overdraft was used on a 
fee-free account at the time the Additions account was taken out and this was the case until 
2001 when Barclays changed its charging structure.
When selling the Additions account, Barclays was required to give Mr Y enough information 
about the account, so he understood what he was agreeing to. Given the circumstances of 
this complaint, I do not know what Mr Y was told about the account. But I think that the 
overdraft benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the account seem attractive. I dont 
know what Mr Y was told about the other benefits that the account came with, but I have not 
seen enough to be satisfied that there was something specific that he was not told about that 
may have changed his decision to take out this account.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions account was mis-
sold. The account mayve changed in terms of cost and benefits over the years it was held, 
and I appreciate that the representative for the Estate of Mr Y may now believe the account 
to have been poor value for money. But that does not mean it was mis-sold, or that Barclays 
was wrong to have sold it when it did.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and the 
estate of Mr Y to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman