DRN-3149560
complaint
This complaint is about regular premium insurance taken in connection with a loan in 2009. 
St Andrews Insurance Plc is responsible for the sale. Mrs A says the policy was mis-sold. 
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs As 
circumstances at the time of the sale, as well as the policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs As representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. Mrs A has also requested a decision. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think St Andrews made it clear Mrs A didnt have to take the policy and she chose to 
take it. I say this because Mrs A hasnt said anything to make me think this wasnt clear  
and it is apparent from the sales call recording that this was clear.
St Andrews recommended the policy to Mrs A, so it had to check the policy was right for 
her. And the evidence about Mrs As circumstances at the time, shows the policy wasnt 
unsuitable for her. For example, based on what I have, she had some existing cover but 
had a need for cover to help with the extra monthly payments shed be taking on with her 
new loan. Also, she was eligible for the cover, it seems like it was affordable for her and 
nothing about her employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult for her to claim.
Mrs A couldnt have claimed for time off if related to a health issue she had at the start or 
had been treated for in the 12 months before the start, except in limited circumstances - 
and not if the issue were ongoing or recurring. So its likely Mrs A couldnt have claimed 
if the health issue shes told us shed suffered from over 20 years before the sale was an 
issue she still suffered from or a recurring one that kept her off work in future. So Ive 
thought about this.
But based on the sales call, Mrs A hadnt suffered from this or any other health issue in 
the 12 months before the sale. With that and all shes told us about her health in mind, 
on balance I dont think this exclusion made it wrong for St Andrews to recommend the 
cover to her still, bearing in mind what the policy would still cover.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mrs A about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it, and I dont think she wouldve rung up to ask 
for a quote or agreed to take it without a broad understanding of what it was for. So, it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for her, as I concluded 
above, and it seems like it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong in the 
circumstances the policy covered. 
Also, Mrs A was told the monthly cost, what the monthly benefit would be and that it 
would pay out for 12 months (or only three months for back or mental health issues, 
except in certain circumstances). Overall, based on what she was told during the call, I 
dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mrs A thought she was buying. 
With this and all Ive already said above in mind, I dont think she wouldve declined the 
cover had St Andrews done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mrs As circumstances at the sale - and despite its limitations 
and exclusions - I still dont think the policy was unsuitable for her and, as Ive discussed 
above, I think she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mrs A wouldve still taken the policy. Given her circumstances, I think it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if she couldnt work in the circumstances 
it covered. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. 
And, in those circumstances, I think it likely she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all policy complaints. 
These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling policy complaints; that these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant 
St Andrews should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
Mrs As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs As individual complaint  just that they apply to all policy complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the complaint. This means St Andrews 
doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Im grateful to Mrs A for her courtesy and assistance during our consideration of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman