DRN-2536169
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995. Mr and Mrs D paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case one or 
both of them was off work sick or lost their job.
I sent Mr and Mrs D and Lloyds a provisional decision on 23 December 2020, to explain 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
This sale was well over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So its unsurprising that neither side still have the original documents from the sale. Indeed, 
under data protection rules, Lloyds were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ds data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs D dont remember buying PPI, and I also think 
thats unsurprising, given that buying insurance is not often memorable and this sale was 
particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Lloyds to have misled Mr and Mrs D into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Lloyds did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with Lloyds sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too 
long ago for me to reasonably expect Lloyds to be able to produce documents from the time 
to defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Lloyds did 
something wrong here. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales 
process, gave Mr and Mrs D a choice, and that they chose PPI at the time  though I can 
understand if they no longer recall doing so after such a long time.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Lloyds if it did recommend it  so to be fair to Mr and Mrs D, 
Ive assumed it did. That means Lloyds had to check the policy was right for them  and 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs D were eligible for the cover and werent affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of their sick pay 
and offered more comprehensive cover, especially for when their sick pay reduced to just a 
fraction of their normal pay. It also meant they could effectively protect any savings they 
mightve had and used them for other things, instead of potentially having to sacrifice one 
asset to save another. Its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a very significant, 
long-term commitment, and there was no guarantee that Mr or Mrs D would have the same 
work situation, benefits, or savings available in the many years to come. And ultimately, if 
they fell behind on their mortgage they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really 
been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs D werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs D could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, I understand Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the way Lloyds handled their complaint. 
Im afraid I cannot consider this here, as I can only decide complaints about regulated 
activities  for example, the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a regulated 
activity in and of itself. So while Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs D found the complaints 
process stressful, I cant consider that point. Instead, Ive focused my decision on the sale of 
their PPI. I do note that Lloyds have offered Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation in relation to 
the handling of their complaint, should they wish to accept that.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
22 January 2021. Lloyds didnt send me anything new to consider. Mr and Mrs D sent in 
further points, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D pointed to a mortgage offer from 2007 which said that their PPI was optional. 
They said there was nowhere on that document where they could choose to take out PPI or 
turn it down, and so they suggested this meant that the PPI was mis-sold in 1995.
While I understand that Mr and Mrs D feel strongly about this document, Im afraid I dont 
think that the documents from a different sale twelve years after the fact are relevant to the 
sale of PPI in 1995.
In any case, I should also explain that I would not normally expect there to be any options 
presented in the mortgage offer document itself, because the offer document was there to 
set out what Mr and Mrs D had already chosen earlier in the process. It was not there to sell 
new or extra products at such a late stage. So it was just describing the PPI they wouldve 
already picked earlier. And the fact that it describes the PPI specifically as optional 
confirms that it was an optional extra, and not a requirement of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs D questioned how we knew the PPI was sold at a branch meeting, and asked 
who was present as they dont remember the meeting. We think that this was sold in a 
meeting only because at the time, that was the only method by which this particular brand of 
policy was sold. There isnt still a record of the meeting itself or who was there. And I think 
its understandable if Mr and Mrs D dont remember the meeting, given that it was over two 
and a half decades ago.
Mr and Mrs D expressed their disappointment that there wasnt much information still 
available to base the decision on. But while I understand how they feel, as I explained in my 
provisional decision its natural that neither side still have the documents from a sale of over 
two and a half decades ago. Lloyds only had to keep these sorts of documents for around 
six years or so, and were even required to dispose of data rather than hold onto it for too 
long. Ive based my decision on whats most likely, based on what I have available to me.Lastly, Mr and Mrs D reiterated that theyd like more compensation for the way Lloyds 
handled their complaint. But as I explained in my provisional decision, I am not allowed to 
consider that point.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman