DRN-3629923
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T, represented by Mrs T2, are unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc, trading 
as Halifax, treated a fellow customer and subsequently Mrs T.
For ease of reading I will refer to Mrs T throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mrs T says in October 2021 she witnessed discriminatory treatment of another customer that 
breached the Equality Act (2010). She called the branch later to make it aware and felt its 
response was dismissive, but she did not progress a complaint.
When Mrs T subsequently visited the branch over the following weeks she says she 
swapped places with other customers in the queue to avoid being served by the employee 
involved in this incident. Halifax says she did more than this and acted inappropriately in the 
branch, making needless negative remarks about the employee to other customers.
In December 2021 Halifax wrote to Mrs T saying following an incident of verbal abuse at one 
of its branches, if another such incident occurred it would close their account. Mrs T did not 
understand why she had received this letter and was distressed. She says she has been 
treated unjustly under the Equality Act (2010) as it protects people who complain about 
discrimination for someone else. She says she has been victimised for raising her concerns 
about the treatment of a disabled customer. Since receiving this letter Mrs T has since 
stopped using that branch. This increases her travel time and costs. 
Mr and Mrs T would like a full apology; confirmation this has not affected their credit records 
and that no related information will be held on their bank records; deaf awareness training 
for all staff and compensation for additional travel costs and for the upset they have suffered. 
Mrs T is also unhappy Mr T had to be party to this complaint. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. He explained our role versus that 
of the Courts in relation to the Equality Act (2010) and why this service could not look at the 
October 2021 incident - Mrs T had not progressed a complaint with the bank about this. If 
she opted to do so, and was unhappy with the response, she could then bring a new 
complaint to this service. 
He said he could not know with certainty what had happened on the subsequent branch 
visits - and whether or not Mrs T had been vocal - as the parties evidence was 
contradictory. But he did feel Mrs Ts steps to avoid the one employee would have been 
apparent to other customers and implied there was a reason not to be served by that person. 
So he could see why the employee may have felt Mrs Ts behaviour was inappropriate.  
And in this context he felt it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax to have sent a warning letter, 
explaining that repeated incidents could lead to notice of account closure. He felt the bank 
had acted in line with its internal policy on such issues and said the terms of Mr and Mrs Ts 
account allow Halifax to consider account closure. Finally, he explained Mr T needed to be 
party to this complaint under the rules we must follow as it was a joint account. 
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr and Mrs T asked for an ombudsmans review. Mrs T said 
with regards the discrimination claim we must be able to decide if Halifax has acted 
unlawfully. She asked if we have seen the apology letter the branch sent after the October 
2021 incident and she is unhappy this event has not been fully investigated. She said she 
was very distressed by the December 2021 letter; this was unacceptable, and she wants the 
letter withdrawn. She says her behaviour in the branch was at no time abusive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes all of the submissions made by Mr and Mrs Ts representative. However, in 
keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will 
focus here on the issues I find to be material to the outcome of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
October 2021
As our investigator said Mrs T would first need to complain to Halifax about what she 
witnessed in the branch to give it the chance to investigate and respond. When she initially 
called on 19 October 2021 the banks notes show the call was disconnected, and the banks 
return call went to voicemail the following day. A complaint was raised but was later voided 
at Mrs Ts request when the parties next spoke on 9 November 2021. The notes say Mrs T 
confirmed she did not want to make a complaint, she just wanted to make the branch 
manager aware. As the bank has not had the chance to investigate and issue a response, 
we cannot look at this further at this stage. Or comment on Mrs Ts request for training in 
branches. Mrs T can of course come back to us if she does complain to the bank and is 
unhappy with its response.
The subsequent branch visits & letter
As the parties testimonies are contradictory, and the bank no longer has the relevant CCTV 
footage, I cannot know with certainty what happened in the branch. Mrs T says she was at 
no point inappropriate and just moved places in the queue to avoid the one employee. 
Halifax says she moved people backwards and forwards in the queue and made comments 
about the employee to other customers. As the investigator said, we cannot know what, if 
anything was said, but I accept the employee was made to feel uncomfortable by Mrs Ts 
actions  irrespective of her intent. I have reviewed the banks relevant policy about 
customer behaviour which sets out that it must consider the impact of a reported incident on 
employees and their wellbeing. I find for this reason it was reasonable it sent Mrs T a 
warning letter. 
I do understand that as Mrs Ts recollections vary significantly from the employees that she 
was deeply upset on receiving the letter. And I think the wording of the letter was not fairly 
reflective of what had happened in the branch. From the contact reports the bank submitted 
there is no suggestion Mrs T was ever verbally abusive to the employee, rather she was 
avoiding being served by her  and may or may not have spoken to other customers about 
this. I suggest Halifax may want to write to Mrs T and apologise for its choice of wording 
given it is aware how upset Mrs T was by it. To be clear, I am not undermining its right to 
send the warning letter as the relationship was clearly strained, but I find it ought to have 
sent a more relevant and bespoke communication. I would hope it would want to resolve this 
situation such that a long-term customer can again feel comfortable to visit their local 
branch. Mrs T feels the letter shows she was victimised because she had called in October about the 
discriminatory behaviour. And she says this is unfair based on Element 4 of the Equality Act 
(2010). In terms of this point, as we have said, it is for the Courts to determine if a business 
has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider various
factors including relevant law and what we see as good industry practice from the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Halifax has breached the Equality
Act 2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. Mrs T did not submit any specific evidence for me 
to consider that supports her claim that she received the warning letter because she 
reported discrimination in October. For the reasons Ive set out above, from what I have 
seen Im satisfied that Halifaxs actions were driven by the guidance set out in its policy 
Dealing with inappropriate or abusive customer behaviour.
I know this isnt the answer Mrs T was hoping for, but I hope she can take some comfort 
from what Ive said and the knowledge that an independent third-party has reviewed 
Halifaxs actions and found no failings. It follows that I am making no compensatory award, 
nor is it appropriate for me to instruct Halifax to withdraw the December 2021 warning letter. 
There would be no reason that this has affected their credit history.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman