DRN-2379442
The complaint
Mr N complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED arent reporting data on 
his credit file about his rent.
What happened
Mr N has contacted TRANSUNION on multiple occasions asking them to reach an 
agreement to show his rent payments on his credit file with the provider he pays his rent to.
TRANSUNION replied and said if a specific account doesnt appear on his credit file with 
them, its because they dont have an agreement with that provider to do so. They explained 
while the majority of information will be the same across all three main UK credit reference 
agencies, some lenders will only provide information to one or two people. Its for this 
reason, they advise people to check all three agencies to get a full picture of their credit 
history. Because of this, they dont think theyve done anything wrong in not reporting the 
information Mr N wants them to.
Mr N wasnt happy with this. He said they hadnt understood his complaint, and more 
specifically hadnt agreed with this provider to report his rent payments with TRANSUNION 
like he wants them to. He said his proposed solution was for TRANSUNION to get in touch 
with the other provider and come to an agreement to start reporting this information. But hes 
also asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so and found we couldnt tell TRANSUNION to start reporting 
information as thats not within our powers. We cant order a financial business to change 
their procedures but can only look to see if theyve done something wrong for Mr N 
specifically. And, as they dont offer this service to any of their customers, she didnt feel 
TRANSUNION had done anything wrong.
Mr N didnt agree, saying he thought hed made a reasonable request to report his rent on 
his credit file. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain my role isnt to tell a financial business how to operate, or 
what agreements to make with other companies. My role is the put right any financial loss 
caused as a result of an error made by a financial business.
Mr Ns unhappy TRANSUNION arent reporting his rent payments on his credit file  and 
hes said this is because the other two credit reference agencies are.
I can see why this would be something Mr N wants. This would give a complete and clear 
picture on his credit file with TRANSUNION about his credit history.
But I cant order any financial business to make an agreement like Mr N is asking for. I 
simply dont have the authority to do that. As Ive said above, my role would be to put Mr N 
back into the position he should have been in, had TRANSUNION made an error. But, not 
making an agreement Mr N has asked for isnt an error, its TRANSUNION choosing how to 
operate.
So, I cant do what Mr N is asking for.
Ive also noted the other provider doesnt appear to offer this service to TRANSUNION 
themselves. And, both parties would need to come to that agreement  which, again, isnt 
something I can order.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman