DRN-4056042
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim she made on her employers group 
income protection policy. 
What happened
Miss J was a beneficiary of her employers group income protection policy. In July 2020 she 
made a claim on the policy as shed been working reduced hours, following surgery which 
had taken place in December 2018. She reported symptoms arising from a number of 
conditions which she said were impacting her ability to work. 
Unum said the claim hadnt been referred to them within the relevant time limit set out in the 
policy. They reviewed the available medical evidence but thought their ability to assess the 
evidence was prejudiced by the late submission of the claim. Unum also considered whether 
they could pay the claim if they applied a later date range for the deferred period. However, 
they reached the same conclusion that their position had been prejudiced by the late 
notification. Miss J complained but Unum maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Unum to decline the claim. He thought Unum had been unable 
to substantiate the full extent of Miss Js incapacity. And he highlighted that it was for Miss J 
to demonstrate that she met the policy definition of incapacity. 
Miss J didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, Miss J 
said there had been no late notification and that Unum had proceeded with a second sham 
assessment of the claim, knowing that there was no prospect of success. She also 
highlighted that the medical information shed provided was based on contemporaneous 
records. Miss J also didnt think the investigator had taken account of delays in assessing 
the claim or the overall impact on her. So, the case was passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of Unums decision to reject the claim, and the ongoing 
impact of making this complaint, on Miss J. Shes explained its had a significant impact on 
her mental health and wellbeing. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding Miss Js complaint because: 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that they should have been 
notified of the claim sooner. The policy terms say that a claim should be submitted as 
soon as a problem is anticipated. The deferred period includes periods where the 
employee is working part-time or is on restricted duties. From late 2018 Miss J was 
working reduced hours and had workplace adjustments ahead of her surgery at the 
end of 2018. This continued until she made the claim in 2020.
I think its reasonable to conclude Unum have been prejudiced by the late notification 
of the claim. Ive considered Miss Js comments that the reports are based on 
contemporary records. However, its still difficult to understand exactly how her 
functional capability at work was impacted by her symptoms and what her capacity to 
work was. Although the medical information confirms Miss J was unwell and 
experiencing symptoms, I dont think it gives a sufficiently detailed insight into 
whether she met the policy definition of incapacity. Thats to Unums disadvantage in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Had Unum been aware of the claim during the deferred period they would have had 
the opportunity to manage the claim, for example obtaining contemporary 
independent evidence of Miss Js functional capability or considering instructing an 
expert. Theyve not had the chance to do so and I think thats disadvantaged Unums 
position when considering the claim, particularly given the complexity or Miss Js 
medical conditions and the symptoms she was reporting.  
I dont think Unums further assessment of the claim was pre-determined or a waste 
of time. Where a policyholder or a consumer disagrees with the decision to decline a 
claim its common for insurers to consider the claim further, and any other potential 
deferred period dates which could be relevant. The evidence Ive seen suggests that 
the claim was reconsidered fairly by Unum. So, Im not persuaded this was a sham 
re-assessment of the claim.   
It took a long time for Unum to assess the claim. However, Im not persuaded that 
Unum caused significant or unreasonable delays throughout the claim. I think Unum 
has provided a reasonable explanation for the time its taken to give Miss J an 
answer. That includes, for example, the need to gather and review the medical 
evidence throughout the original claim and the further assessment based on a 
different date for the deferred period. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman