DRN-3164177
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined its 
application for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme.
Mr S is Cs director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
C wanted to borrow £300,000 from Lloyds under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan 
(CBIL) Scheme. But Lloyds declined its request.
Lloyds initially declined the application on enquiry  in other words, without requesting any 
additional information from C to support its request. But when Mr S challenged the banks 
decision, the bank reviewed the application in more detail as part of its appeals process. 
The decision, though, remained unchanged.
When confirming its decision to Mr S, Lloyds explained that it had assessed whether C could 
afford to service the loan based on its performance prior to the coronavirus pandemic. And 
having done so, it wasnt satisfied that the loan repayments would be affordable.
Mr S continued to query the basis of the banks decision and Lloyds dealt with his further 
points by way of complaint. It stood by its decision, so Mr S referred the matter to us. 
Mr S doesnt think Lloyds treated C fairly. He says:
Lloyds initially rejected the request on the basis that the company hadnt been 
affected by the pandemic to such an extent that the loan was required  which was 
not valid under the rules of the CBIL Scheme, as applicants could self-certify this 
aspect of their eligibility. 
The loan was affordable, particularly as he was offering a personal guarantee for the 
loan and had had more than double the amount requested in his personal account 
with the bank. 
After declining the CBIL request, Lloyds suggested the company borrow by way of a 
conventional loan instead  which wouldve been on less favourable terms for C, 
and more profitable for the bank.
Delays on Lloyds part left C unable to apply for a CBIL elsewhere, as the deadline 
expired while the application was ongoing. The company had to borrow funds at a 
more expensive rate with an alternative lender  so he wanted Lloyds to compensate 
C for the difference in the rate it was paying and the rate it wouldve paid if it had 
borrowed under the CBIL Scheme.
One of our investigators reviewed Cs complaint but didnt think Lloyds had done anything 
wrong. She said, in summary, that:
Under the rules of the CBIL Scheme, Lloyds had the authority to decide whether to 
offer a loan to C. And there were certain criteria against which the bank had to 
assess Cs application  including whether the proposal was one that wouldve been 
considered viable were it not for the pandemic.
Lloyds had properly assessed Cs application, reviewing the companys historic 
financial information to assess whether the loan would be affordable. 
Lloyds hadnt unreasonably delayed Cs application or prevented the company from 
applying elsewhere for a CBIL. And shed not seen any evidence to show that the 
bank had suggested C take out one of its other products instead.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint  so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why. I should point out that in doing so, I wont address each and every 
point that Mr S has raised over the course of his correspondence with us and the bank, 
which I hope he wont see as discourteous. Rather, Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached my decision.
Under the rules of the CBIL Scheme, lenders were entitled  and expected  to assess the 
viability of the lending proposition. Applications were still subject to affordability and 
creditworthiness assessments in a similar way to conventional loans, with lenders retaining 
the discretion to consider requests in line with their usual underwriting policies. 
With regard to the impact of the pandemic on an applicants financial performance, lenders 
could disregard concerns over an applicants short-to-medium term performance but werent 
obliged to do so altogether. Rather, allowance could be made for the uncertainty and impact 
of the coronavirus pandemic. So while Mr S is right to say that applicants could self-certify as 
to the impact of the pandemic, lenders werent required to accept this without question.
In any event, Lloyds ultimately declined Cs application on the basis that it didnt think the 
company would be able to afford the monthly repayments that would be due on the 
proposed loan. It gathered information about the companys financial information to inform its 
assessment and liaised with Mr S to clarify certain aspects before reaching its decision. 
Having considered the banks rationale, I dont think it acted unreasonably in declining the 
application. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said on this point, regarding his offer to provide a personal 
guarantee. Its not entirely clear to me if Lloyds assessed the application on the basis that 
such a guarantee would be obtained. But either way, the bank was still obliged to consider 
the affordability of the loan for C in the first instance. Its concerns in this regard led it to 
decline the application, and I dont think the offer of a personal guarantee (or the means with 
which Mr S presently held to honour it) ought necessarily to have led the bank to a different 
decision.
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about the way Lloyds handled the application. I 
dont think there were any unreasonable delays on the banks part that meant C couldnt apply for a CBIL elsewhere. Time was always against C given it only approached the bank 
shortly before the Scheme closed to new applications (with a formal application only 
submitted some time after this 31 March 2021 deadline). So I dont think Lloyds is 
responsible for C being unable to apply for a CBIL elsewhere or having to borrow funds on a 
higher rate than might otherwise have been available.
Mr S also told us that Lloyds suggested C apply for the loan it needed through one of its 
conventional products once the CBIL request was declined. Theres no documentary 
evidence of this, but Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ss recollections. That said, I dont know 
exactly how this option was presented to him  and there may well have been some 
justification, in that other products may have yielded lower monthly payments (for example, 
by a longer term that that available through a CBIL). Ultimately, while I can see why Mr S 
might consider such a suggestion inappropriate, I dont think its had any impact on S as the 
company didnt pursue any such application with the bank anyway.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman