DRN-3138688
The complaint
Miss M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly declined a critical illness 
claim and have cancelled her policy. She is also unhappy about Avivas handling of her 
claim. 
She wants her policy reinstated and the claim paid in full. 
What happened
Miss M applied for a decreasing term assurance policy in June 2017 via her Independent 
Financial Advisor (IFA). The policy was offered on standard terms, with cover starting on 
27 June 2017 and Miss M was asked to check her application details. The policy included 
critical illness benefit. 
In December 2019 Miss M made a critical illness claim to Aviva having unfortunately been 
diagnosed with breast cancer. 
Aviva declined the claim. It said Miss M hadnt provided correct information on the 
application form about her medical history. Specifically, about medication and treatment 
shed received in the two years prior to the application, ongoing investigations, and family 
history of specified medical conditions. Aviva considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to decline the claim, treat the policy as if it was never in 
place and return the premiums paid.
Miss M complained to Aviva. She said her IFA and not gone through the application form 
with her. She also said shed been away when the check your application details letter 
arrived, and the significance of doing that hadnt been explained to her by the IFA. Whilst 
Miss M accepted some of the information shouldve been disclosed on the application, she 
disagreed that the policy wouldve never been put in place if she had. Aviva didnt uphold 
Miss Ms complaint and maintained its decision to decline her claim and cancel the policy. 
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said Aviva had asked clear questions that Miss M had answered incorrectly. She thought 
Aviva acted fairly by declining the claim and returning the premiums. 
Our investigator thought Aviva took a reasonable length of time to consider the claim. And 
whilst there mightve been some confusion when Miss M first contacted Aviva as to whether 
a claim could be made, our investigator didnt think this caused Miss M any detriment. 
Miss M doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
She said shed put complete trust in her IFA in completing the application correctly. And said 
its unfair shes being penalised for her IFAs negligence. 
Miss M didnt accept that Aviva was right to have cancelled her policy  as she believed if all
questions had been correctly answered, she wouldve still been offered cover, albeit at a 
higher premium. She wanted Avivas underwriting criteria reviewed in light of the medical 
information she shouldve disclosed. 
Miss M also said she hadnt given permission for Aviva to speak with her IFA as part of the 
claims process. She said this was a violation of her personal data and a breach of her 
confidentiality. And she maintained that Aviva had taken too long to consider her claim and 
said it had only progressed because of her intervention. Miss M also reiterated how Aviva 
had initially told her she couldnt make a critical illness claim, which had confused matters 
and meant she couldve potentially missed out.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I want to assure Miss M that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand 
this is an incredibly difficult time for her, and I dont want to add to her distress. But I cant 
say Aviva has treated her unfairly. 
Ive noted that Miss M believes it was her IFAs negligence that resulted in the application 
not being completed correctly. I havent looked at any concerns Miss M has about her IFA. 
Those have been dealt with separately. My review focusses solely on the actions of Aviva. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Claim decision and cancellation of policy
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks Miss M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she completed the application form in June 2017. 
Ive looked at the questions Miss M was asked when she applied for the policy. They said:
Within the last four years have you had, or have you taken medication for, or been 
advised to take medication or have treatment for: Asthma or any condition affecting your lungs or breathing (other than hay fever)?
Mental illness including anxiety, stress or depression, insomnia, or eating disorder, 
regardless of whether or not you have seen a doctor?
A lump, growth, polyp or tumour of any kind, or a mole or freckle that has bled, itched, 
become painful, changed colour or increased in size, regardless of whether or not you have 
consulted a doctor?
Any pain or restriction in movement in the back, neck, shoulder or joints (including traumatic 
injury), a slipped disc, sciatica, rheumatic, arthritic or muscular complaints including gout, 
repetitive strain injury, neuralgia and fibromyalgia?.  
Apart from any conditions youve already told us about in this application, within the 
last two years have you: 
Been referred to, treated at or had any investigations at a hospital or clinic?
Apart from any conditions youve already told us about in this application, are you 
currently:
Waiting for the results of any test or investigation?
Experiencing symptoms or a condition that youre likely to seek medical advice or treatment 
for in the near future? 
Have any of your natural parents, brothers or sisters been diagnosed with or died 
from, any of the following before age 60? 
Breast, ovarian, colon or bowel cancer?
Miss M answered no to all these questions. The questions are I think clear and 
unambiguous. 
I can see from Miss Ms medical records that within the two years prior to her application she 
had several medical appointments and investigations. Those included reviews and 
assessments for asthma, fibromyalgia, knee osteoarthritis, repetitive strain injury and for 
changes to a mole. She also underwent investigations for breast and bowel cancer  and 
mentions her brother having had bowel cancer before the age of 60. In June 2017, just 
before the application, Miss M was referred to Rheumatology because of a deterioration in 
her fibromyalgia. 
All this information shows me Miss M had several ongoing and recent medical conditions, 
which she was aware of when she completed the application  as well as pending medical 
investigations. And so, I think its reasonable Aviva has said she shouldve answered yes to 
the above questions. 
Ive looked carefully at what Miss M has said about why she didnt complete the application 
form correctly. CIDRA makes it clear that its the customers responsibility to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation - that means they need to ensure all the information 
given as part of an application is complete and accurate. The standard is that of a 
reasonable person.
Miss M doesnt dispute she shouldve disclosed her full medical history on the application  
rather her point is that the IFA didnt take her through the application correctly and ask about her medical history. And so, Miss M thinks its unfair shes being penalised for the IFAs 
mistakes. I understand the point she is making and can appreciate her frustration  but as 
Ive explained above, Im only considering the actions of Aviva as part of this review. 
I understand that Miss M trusted the IFA to complete the application on her behalf. But Aviva 
sent her a letter on 27 June 2017 giving her an opportunity to further check the application  
which it enclosed. I appreciate Miss M says she was away when this letter was sent, and 
she didnt fully understand its significance. But I can see that Aviva made it clear the onus 
was on Miss M to answer all questions on the application correctly, and what the 
consequences of not doing so might be. She was also given an opportunity to correct 
anything that had been recorded incorrectly. The purpose of this is to identify if there were 
mistakes made during the sales process. So, Im satisfied Aviva did nothing wrong here. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I do understand Miss Ms strength of feeling, I cant 
say Aviva treated her unfairly when it accepted the application in good faith based on the 
answers shed provided. 
Miss Ms main point of complaint relates to Avivas decision to cancel the policy. Because 
she believes cover shouldve still been offered even if shed fully disclosed her medical 
history on the application  and she wants Avivas underwriting to be reviewed.
I can see that Aviva has said the medical conditions Miss M shouldve disclosed wouldnt 
have affected the terms of the cover it offered. But its provided evidence from its 
underwriting criteria to show that it wouldve deferred the application pending Miss Ms 
Rheumatology referral in June 2017, made just before she submitted her application. This 
meant the application wouldve been closed until all outstanding investigations and tests 
were complete. Miss M wouldve then had to submit a new application. 
I can see from Miss Ms medical records that she remained under the care of 
Rheumatology throughout 2017 and 2018. There was also a Respiratory referral in 
August 2017, with investigations continuing until 2020. Furthermore, I can see Miss M had 
an Audiology referral in April 2019 and a fast-tracked referral for suspected skin cancer in 
May 2019. Avivas underwriting criteria confirms that given the ongoing investigations  
regardless of the outcomes, there was no point at which Aviva couldve offered cover to 
Miss M. This means Im satisfied Miss Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Aviva has treated Miss Ms misrepresentation as careless. This means the policy was looked 
upon as if it never existed, the claim was declined, and all the premiums were refunded. 
Given Miss Ms testimony about her understanding of the application process and the 
reliance she put on her IFA, I dont think Miss M made a deliberate mistake. And so, I agree 
with Aviva that the misrepresentation should be treated as careless and Im satisfied its 
actions in declining Miss Ms claim and cancelling the policy are a fair and reasonable 
outcome. So, I wont be asking Aviva to take any further action. 
Consent
Miss M is concerned about the interactions between Aviva and her IFA and says she didnt 
consent. I can see theres some dispute over a letter of authority sent to Aviva by Miss Ms 
IFA on 3 June 2020. She says this was not intended to give consent for Aviva to release 
information to her IFA. But Aviva has interpreted this to be the case. 
Ive no reason to dispute what Miss M says the purpose of the letter of authority was. But 
regardless of the letters intention, I cant see that any detriment has been caused to Miss M. 
Her IFA wouldve communicated with Aviva as part of the application process. But Aviva has 
said it neither requested, nor received, any information from Miss Ms IFA as part of the claims process. And having seen the evidence relied upon by Aviva in the assessment of 
Miss Ms claim, Ive no reason to doubt Avivas position here, nor have I seen any basis on 
which to say it did anything wrong. 
Claim handling 
It took just over six months for Aviva to assess Miss Ms claim. This isnt unreasonable in 
cases such as this  where there is a need to obtain and fully consider medical evidence. 
This is fair to all parties to ensure the right decision is made. 
I fully appreciate that Miss M was going through a very difficult time given her breast cancer 
diagnosis and was keen for the claim to be considered as quickly as possible. And so, I can 
understand why she chased matters. But I cant see any evidence that Aviva unnecessarily 
delayed the claim. They had to wait for medical information, but that was beyond Avivas 
control. And when information was received, it was reviewed within a timely manner. So, 
whilst Miss M took the initiative to chase things up, I cant say this was because Aviva did 
anything wrong here. 
Finally, Miss M has said she was misinformed by Aviva about being able to make a critical 
illness claim. Ive listened to the call Miss M made to Aviva in December 2019. I can see 
there is a discussion around whether Miss Ms breast cancer was covered under her policy, 
and how the specifics of her diagnosis might impact the amount paid. But I dont agree that 
Miss M was misinformed by Aviva. She was simply being alerted to the possible outcomes of 
her claim, to manage her expectations. This all seems reasonable to me. 
I appreciate Miss Ms version of events differs from this. But even if Aviva had wrongly 
advised her about being able to make the claim, the claim was made and assessed in the 
usual way. Miss M has said she couldve missed out on making a claim because of the 
wrong information. But that wasnt the case.    
Taking everything into account, I cant say Aviva has mishandled Miss Ms claim. And I think 
its decision to decline her claim and cancel her policy was fair and reasonable. So, I wont be 
asking Aviva to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman