DRN-3317236
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Cynergy Bank Limited (Cynergy) have unfairly refused to refund over 
£11,000 she lost as part of a scam where she was tricked into sharing her security details to 
a scammer pretending to be from Sky.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have also been set out 
extensively by the investigator, so I will not repeat everything again here. Instead, I will focus 
on giving the reason for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Cynergy submit that Mrs L authorised the payments that were made from her account on 
5 January 2021. But in order for a payment to be regarded as authorised under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017) it is necessary for Mrs L to have given 
her consent to the execution of the relevant payment transactions. And, according to 
Regulation 67 of the PSRs 2017, consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with 
the procedure, agreed between the payer and its payment service provider.
However, in this instance, Im not persuaded that Mrs L did complete all the necessary steps 
in order to give her consent for a transaction to be made in the form, and in accordance with 
the procedure agreed. I appreciate that she took the initial step of logging on to her internet 
banking, and also scanned her security device in order to authenticate the payments. But 
Mrs L was duped into doing this by being told that she had to approve the transaction in 
order to receive a refund. She did not enter any payee details into her internet banking, for 
example, and was unaware that she was authenticating a payment to be made from her 
account. So, Im not persuaded she can be said to have given her consent to the execution 
of the payment transactions, as she was under the impression that money would be paid into 
her account, not being transferred out of it. 
The payment services directive itself (which the PSRs 2017 implement) states that in the 
absence of such consent, a payment transaction shall be considered to be unauthorised. 
Therefore, given I dont consider Mrs L provided her consent for these payments to be made 
from her account, Im satisfied they are to be considered as unauthorised for the purposes 
of the PSRs 2017.
Did Mrs L act with intent or gross negligence  particularly taking into account the 
terms and conditions of her relationship with Cynergy and the obligations set out in 
the PSRs 2017?
I dont think Cynergy have suggested that Mrs L failed to comply with her obligations under 
Regulation 72 of the PSRs with intent, and neither have I seen any evidence that would 
suggest this either. So, I do not intend to explore this point any further as I dont consider 
she failed to meet her obligations with intent.
However, I have considered whether the actions Mrs L took fell so far below the standard of 
a reasonable person that she could be said to have failed with gross negligence to take all 
reasonable steps to keep her security information safe or to comply with the terms and 
conditions of her account.
Gross negligence is not an abstract concept. Its important to take into account all the 
circumstances when considering whether an individuals actions amount to gross 
negligence. Scams such as the one experienced by Mrs L are very sophisticated, and its 
likely the fraudster used a range of social engineering techniques to trick, deceive and 
manipulate her into following their instructions and inadvertently allowing access to her 
internet banking.
Mrs L has explained that Sky is her broadband provider. She has also said that she had 
been experiencing issues with her connection, So, when the scammer contacted her 
purporting to be a Sky engineer that wanted to test her connection speed, she wouldnt have 
immediately thought there was any reason to doubt the legitimacy of the person she was 
speaking to. 
When discussing the refund Mrs L was due, the scammer also knew the last four digits of 
her bank account number, which wouldve further persuaded her that it was a legitimate call 
from her broadband company. She was also passed between different people/departments 
and even spoke to a manager to give the appearance of a legitimate operation. 
When Mrs L downloaded the remote access software, the fraudster managed to convince 
her that they could not see her internet banking screen, and she was reassured that it was 
only required so their server could connect to her bank to authorise the payment. They 
managed to black out her screen and also used convincing looking logos of Sky while they 
ran tests, and continued to be reassure her that they could not see her screen, at which 
point she agreed to log on to her internet banking to see if the refund had been received.
 
I dont think its entirely implausible for Mrs L to think that she might be due a refund if she 
had been experiencing connection issues as she had. And she said the scammer always 
had convincing and plausible answers to any of her questions when she had doubts. It was 
all of these circumstances combined that led Mrs L to ultimately trust the person she was 
speaking to, and to follow their instructions to download the remote access software and 
follow the Cynergy payment authentication process (albeit for a refund to be issued rather 
than making any payments). 
I appreciate that Mrs L undertook the authentication process several times, as the scammer 
told her this was necessary. But she has explained that she was in a rush and wasnt 
thinking straight as she had to attend to her childrens home schooling, and she had already 
been on the phone for a significant amount of time. She was under pressure to get it sorted 
as soon as possible, and given she thought she was dealing with a business she knew, 
trusted and had dealt with before, I think a lot of people would have done the same thing and 
believed what the scammer was saying. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Mrs L thought that by downloading the remote access software 
and following the authentication process that she was enabling a refund to be paid into her 
account. It was in this context that she took the steps that she did, and I think a lot of people 
in a similar position wouldve behaved in a similar way in those circumstances. It therefore 
follows that I dont think the actions Mrs L took fell so far below the standards of a 
reasonable person, such that she could be said to have failed with gross negligence to keep her personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and conditions of her 
account. And so I conclude that it would be fair and reasonable for Cynergy to provide a full 
refund to Mrs Ls account of the amount that she lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Cynergy Bank Limited to 
refund Mrs L the money she lost as part of the scam, less any amounts subsequently 
recovered. Cynergy should also pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the 
date of loss until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman