DRN-2640804
The complaint
Mrs I says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out by phone in 2003. The policy was
taken out a number of years after Mrs I applied for the credit card. It gave her accident,
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs I disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Is complaint, Ill explain why.
Mrs I applied for her credit card in one of the banks branches in 1998. At that time she didnt
select PPI. The PPI was added to her account in 2003 on a phone call. This suggests she 
would have known it was a separate optional product. The bank cant provide a call 
recording so I can't know exactly what was said but Barclays has provided the call
script that was in place at the time for phone sales. And this shows the adviser would have 
made clear PPI was optional and needed to obtain Mrs Is consent to add it to her account. I 
havent found any evidence to suggest that the adviser didnt follow the standard sales 
process. So overall, I think its most likely Barclays made Mrs I aware the PPI was optional, 
and she chose to take it.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs I, so it needed to check if it was suitable for her.
Based on what I've seen of her circumstances at the time I think it was. Mrs I told us she
was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, but the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to her work benefits for up to 12 months for all successful 
accident and sickness claims. The PPI also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover. 
This would have allowed her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment from her 
employer, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
Mrs I told us she had a death-in-service benefit but that protects against a different event 
and wouldnt help with monthly credit card repayments in the same way as PPI. She also 
said her parents would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection, its not 
guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. The PPI would have allowed Mrs I to 
use any savings she had to cover other living costs, or to keep them intact for her future 
needs. Mrs I argues that her employment was very stable, but the PPI was there to protect 
against any unforeseen changes to her employment status and her health. Overall, I think 
the PPI would have been useful for Mrs I in addition to her existing means if she was sick or 
lost her job. 
Mrs I says she is certain the costs and benefits were not made clear. I agree its possible the 
information Barclays gave Mrs I about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
Mrs I chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. She 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was reasonably priced 
for the benefit it offered and it was apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely Mrs I wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think she 
would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs I because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) so it should have told Mrs I about that. Because Barclays didnt tell
Mrs I, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs I.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs I any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman