DRN-3875100
The complaint
Mr M complains that East End Fair Finance Limited trading as Fair Finance was
irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Fair Finance agreed three loans for Mr M in 2021. The first was for £230 agreed in January,
to be repaid over 6 months at £46 a month. The second was for £320 agreed in April, to be
repaid over nine months at £49, and the third was for £800 agreed in July. This was to be
repaid over 12 months with repayments of £101. (all figures rounded)
Mr M said that Fair Finance wouldnt have agreed to lend to him had it carried out correct
checks before agreeing his second and third loans. He says he had financial issues for some
time and had taken out several loans as a result of spending money on gambling. Mr M also
says that Fair Finance reported missing payments on his credit file when hed arranged a
repayment plan with it, and hes concerned about a default notice he received.
Fair Finance said that it asked Mr M about his income and expenses when he applied for
each loan, and it checked his credit file. It considered that the loans would be affordable for
him and so it didnt uphold his complaint. Fair Finance also told Mr M that it couldnt
retrospectively change any adverse information it had reported to the credit reference
agencies.
Mr M referred his complaint to us. Our investigator found that, while Fair Finance should
have carried out a more thorough check when Mr M applied for a third loan, it was unlikely to
have declined to lend to him and so hadnt been irresponsible to do so. They didnt
recommend that his complaint be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for his complaint to come to an
ombudsman for a review and it came to me. I looked into Mr Ms complaint about his
second and third loans only as I understood that he was not complaining about his first. I 
sent out a provisional decision on 6 December 2022 explaining why I thought Mr Ms 
complaint about his third loan should be upheld. I allowed some time for both parties to 
respond and provide any further arguments or new information they wished me to consider 
when making my final decision. 
Mr M accepted my provisional findings but Fair Finance did not. This is my final decision on 
the matter and will be legally binding on both parties should Mr M accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, including the response Ive had from Fair Finance, I remain 
of the view that Mr Ms complaint about his third loan should succeed. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for Fair Finance and I want to reassure it that I have carefully 
considered its response. Ill set out my reasons again in this final decision, and address Fair 
Finances response where appropriate. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, when considering this case Ive had regard to the 
regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in its consumer credit 
handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Fair Finance, need to abide by. Fair Finance will 
be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I 
wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise and refer to them where 
appropriate.
Before entering into a credit agreement, Fair Finance needed to check that Mr M could
afford to meet his repayments out of his usual means for the term of the loan. This means he
should be able to make his repayments without having to borrow further, while meeting
existing commitments and without experiencing adverse consequences. The checks Fair
Finance carried out needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount
borrowed or the term, for example) and to Mr Ms particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that Fair Finance needed to pay due regard to Mr Ms
interests and treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as
targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by
virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Fair Finance complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms applications to satisfy itself that he would be
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did Fair Finance
make fair lending decisions?
Fair Finance said that when Mr M applied for his loans, it asked him about his income and
expenses. It confirmed his income by checking his bank statements and considered how he
was managing his finances by checking his credit file.
I understand that Mr M didnt meet his repayments for his first loan. Hed told Fair Finance
that he was having trouble with his repayments because hed been contributing more than
usual to the household expenses, as the pandemic had impacted on the household income. 
After a payment holiday, Mr M repaid the loan in full in late March 2021.
I appreciate that Mr M didnt make his loan payments as initially agreed for his first loan, but
hed told Fair Finance that he was experiencing exceptional circumstances which it
responded to. So I dont think the management of this loan should have raised concerns for
Fair Finance.
Fair Finance said that when Mr M applied for his second loan he gave his income as £1,700,
which it verified against his last three months bank statements noting his average income
was about £1,755. Mr M gave his expenses as £740, and Fair Finance said that its
affordability checks indicated that he had the surplus income to repay this amount.
It seems inconsistent to me that Mr M would wish to borrow £320 given this level of surplus
income and this might warrant further investigation. However, I dont have copies of the bank 
statements or any of the other information Fair Finance relied on when agreeing this second 
loan for Mr M. I also have no information from Mr M, such as statements for any of his bank 
accounts, which cover early 2021. The repayments for this loan werent so large relative to 
his stated income that there was an obvious risk of it being unaffordable. So I havent 
concluded that that Fair Finance was irresponsible to agree a second loan for Mr M, either 
on the basis of the information it had or ought to have seen.I understand that Mr M made five payments towards his second loan before paying an early
settlement amount of £160 in late July. Within a week Mr M had applied for a third loan, and
Ive concluded that Fair Finance was irresponsible when it agreed to lend to him on this
occasion.
When Mr M applied for his third loan he told Fair Finance that his monthly income was
£1,700, his expenses came to £720 and that he was living with his parents. The purpose of
the loan was debt. Fair Finance provided the credit file information it relied on along with a
copy of Mr Ms bank statements.
Mr Ms credit file shows he had £4,600 of existing debt and a defaulted credit card account
from 2018 with a balance of £102. The customer notes say that Mr M had an arrangement to
pay on one of his loans and when asked about this he told Fair Finance that he was going to
pay it off that day.
However, I think Fair Finance should have realised that it didnt have the full picture of
Mr Ms finances. Hed said he had almost £1,000 disposable income each month yet he was
borrowing less than this and it was the third loan hed applied for in the space of seven
months. He had three credit cards and had spent his combined limit of £1,600 and had
missed a recent payment. Mr M held three bank accounts and was up to his overdraft limit of
£250 on one.
Mr Ms bank statements confirm his income but also show an unusual spending pattern. He
made many relatively low value transfers out of his account to the extent that he spent his
wages within days. In May 2021, for example, Mr M had no money left in his account the day
after being paid and borrowed £250 from a short term lender. This was repeated in June
where it seems he borrowed from a family member and in July, when he applied for his third
loan with Fair Finance the day he was paid.
Irrespective of what Mr M was spending his money on, it seems to me it left him reliant on
credit and so he wasnt likely to be able to meet his repayments for this loan without
borrowing further or experiencing adverse impacts on his finances. Fair Finance should have
seen this from the information it had. Ive concluded that it treated Mr M unfairly and without
regard to his interests by lending to him on this occasion.
In response to my provisional decision Fair Finance said that it wasnt relevant that Mr M 
applied to borrow an amount that was less than his disposable income and that if a 
customer does not have sufficient disposable income to cover a large expense, for example, 
then it is reasonable for them to request a loan to cover the outstanding amount not covered 
by their income. 
I can agree that the amount a borrower might request relative to their declared disposable 
income isnt always relevant, however I think it is in this case. Mr M said he had a disposable 
income of about £1,000, more than three times the amount he wanted to borrow, when he 
applied for his second loan. I didnt have enough information to find that this, what I called an 
inconsistency, ought to have prompted Fair Finance to investigate Mr Ms circumstances 
further, and so I didnt conclude it had been irresponsible to agree a second loan for him.
Mr Ms third loan was for £800, again hed said he had a disposable income of about £1,000. 
There wasnt such a difference between what Mr M had said about his disposable income 
and the amount he wished to borrow on this occasion. But, as I explained above, the weight 
of evidence led me to find that Fair Finance should not have agreed to a third loan with the 
information it had available. Fair Finance also said that:
It wasnt uncommon for people to transfer money immediately after receipt as a way 
to  manage their finances. This isnt inherently indicative of being reliant on credit, 
and it would not be reasonable to assume this to be the case.
From the evidence available to it, Mr [M] was repaying his debts, not increasing them 
(including making early repayments). This would not indicate a spiral of debt, so it 
couldnt agree that the fact that Mr [M] was applying for a third loan in a relatively 
short time period was indicative of financial difficulty.
Id raised concerns regarding Mr [M] holding three credit cards, having spent his 
combined limit of £1,600 and that hed missed a recent payment. Id also noted that 
Mr [M] held three bank accounts and was up to his overdraft limit of £250 on one of 
these. The limit is typical for the customers level of income, and one missed 
payment would not be considered cause for concern treating these as red flags 
would mean it could not lend to anyone, given its customers usual circumstances.
I agree with Fair Finance that the above points, taken separately, dont of themselves 
automatically indicate that Mr M was in financial difficulty. However, what Id highlighted in 
Mr Ms bank account statements was a pattern of spending which suggested to me that he 
was reliant on credit: many small transfers out of his account, lack of transfers back in when 
it seems he needed money, and subsequent borrowing, for example from a high cost short 
term lender. And this, combined with having used almost all his available credit and it being 
his third loan of increasing value in seven months, led me to conclude that Fair Finance 
hadnt treated Mr M fairly by lending to him when it should have seen that there was a risk to 
him of not managing to meet his repayments without borrowing again. 
As I then explained in my provisional decision, a more in depth check of Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time wouldnt have provided any reassurance to Fair Finance that he 
would be able to meet his repayments out of his usual means without borrowing. As Mr M 
has told us, and as is clear from the bank statements for one of his other current accounts, 
he was spending relatively large amounts of money on gambling, on average more than 
£2,500 a month in April to July 2021. This would have confirmed for Fair Finance that the 
loan was unsuitable, and that a decline was the responsible decision.
Fair Finance said that we have had sight of bank statements that it hadnt seen, and did not 
believe it was necessary to request from Mr M. To be clear, I have not found that Fair 
Finance ought to have requested more bank statements from Mr M. The bank statements 
Fair Finance did see showed frequent transactions to another bank account and very little 
returned from that bank account. As Id said in my provisional decision, irrespective of what 
Mr M was spending his money on, it seems this pattern of spending left him reliant on credit. 
Any further information wouldnt have led to the conclusion that Mr M would have enough 
disposable income to cover his repayments for this loan without borrowing again. 
In summary, I dont think Fair Finance treated Mr M fairly or with due regard to his interests
when it agreed to lend to him a third time on the basis of the information it had. I think further
information would have confirmed that Mr M was spending beyond his means and wasnt
likely to be able to meet his repayments for this loan without borrowing further. Ive
concluded that Fair Finance was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr M on this 
occasion and it needs to put things right for him as Ive set out below.
Putting things right
Ive concluded that Fair Finance was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr M in July
2021. So he shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees or charges associated with this loan.
Fair Finance should:oCap the amount Mr M has to repay on the loan agreed in July 2021 to the capital he 
borrowed, in other words £800; and
oIf Mr M has paid more than this then Fair Finance needs to refund these 
overpayments to him along with 8% simple interest per annum* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement of this complaint. In this case Fair Finance needs 
to remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Ms credit file; or
oIf Mr M has not yet repaid the capital, then Fair Finance needs to treat Mr M fairly 
and with forbearance and due consideration regarding his outstanding capital 
balance. This may mean coming to an affordable repayment plan with him. Once the 
loan capital has been repaid, then Fair Finance should remove any negative 
information about this loan from Mr Ms credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Fair Finance to take off tax from this interest. Fair 
Finance must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Mr Ms complaint about East End Fair Finance
Limited trading as Fair Finance and it now needs to take the above steps to put things right 
for him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman