DRN-3753384
The complaint
Mr B complains about the amount AXA PPP Healthcare Limited increased his private 
medical insurance premiums.
What happened
Mr B has had private medical insurance insured by AXA for about 10 years. He complains 
about AXA increasing his policy premiums particularly at the 2022 policy renewal. He said:
AXA had increased his premiums most years although he hadnt then made a claim. 
In 2021 he claimed on the policy and at the February 2022 policy renewal his 
premium had gone from £2,174.49 to £3,248.55 a year, an increase of over £1,000.
The premium increase was unfair and excessive but when he complained to AXA it 
wasnt prepared to be flexible or fair on the price and just gave him information that 
suited it.
He wasnt able to look at alternative policies because as he had some medical 
investigations a new policy might not fully cover him.
AXA said:
Mr Bs premiums had generally increased because of a number of risk factors and it 
had given Mr B examples of those factors. 
Also as Mr B had made a claim in 2021 at the 2022 policy renewal it had reduced his 
no claims discount (NCD) by three levels, as set out in the policy terms. That meant 
his NCD had gone from 65% to 57.5%. 
It had calculated Mr Bs premium correctly and Mr Bs premium had been priced the 
same as any other of its policyholders in the same circumstances.
It had offered to talk through the cover options to reduce the cost on the policy but 
Mr B didnt want to do so. 
Our investigator said AXA had acted fairly.
Mr B disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. Im sorry
to disappoint Mr B, Ill explain why Ive reached my decision.
We wont usually make any judgements about the way an insurer chooses to assess risk,
the risk assessments it makes or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk and that
includes the NCD. Those are commercial decisions for an insurer to make. But we will look
at whether an insurer applied the NCD in line with the policy terms, fairly and reasonably and
that its treated Mr B fairly and consistently in line with its other customers.
Under the policy terms each individual policy Mr Bs had has been a separate contract of
insurance with AXA that lasts one year. At the end of the policy its for AXA to decide
whether it wishes to offer Mr B a new policy and on what terms. The policy terms and
premium dont need to stay the same as the previous policy year. The policy terms are clear
that AXA can change the terms of the policy and the premium when providing a policy
renewal quote. Mr B has the option to either accept or refuse the terms and premiums.
In AXAs final response letter to Mr B it set out some of the risk factors it takes into account 
in deciding premiums for each policy renewal. As Ive said, I cant tell AXA it can or cant  
use those risk factors. But can I tell Mr B that those risk factors are common factors for 
insurers to take into account.
The policy says:
If we pay a claim for anyone on your membership, we will reduce the amount of the 
discount for that person by three levels . We will do this when you renew.
So I think the policy is clear about how a claim on the policy will affect the NCD.
Mr B was on the maximum NCD of 65% and the chart in the policy document shows that a 
reduction of three levels means the NCD is 57.5%. Im satisfied that AXA has applied the 
correct NCD, as set out in the policy terms, to Mr Bs 2022 policy renewal.
Ive seen the pricing information AXA has sent us, which I cant share with Mr B as thats 
commercially sensitive information. I can see that AXA calculated Mr Bs premiums using 
risk factors and the correct NCD and it has correctly calculated the premium. Ive seen no 
evidence that AXA has treated Mr B differently from any other of its policyholders in the 
same circumstances.
AXA offered to discuss different cover options which may have reduced the price Mr B paid, 
which was fair. Mr B decided not to look into those different options, which was his decision 
to make.  
I understand Mr Bs concern that he may not have cover for symptoms hes been 
investigated for if he moves to another insurer. But that doesnt mean AXAs premium 
increase is unfair.
Overall Im satisfied that AXA acted fairly and reasonably in increasing Mr Bs policy 
premiums. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman