DRN-2063351
The complaint
Mrs S says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs S bought the policy in connection with a credit card that she took out in 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs S says she wouldnt have agreed to the PPI, and Ive noted everything shes 
said. But I can see that she ticked the box on the credit card application form to show 
that she wanted the cover. There was a box immediately below that she couldve 
ticked if she didnt want it. So on balance I think Mrs S wouldve realised she had a 
choice about buying the PPI. 
Lloyds accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mrs S, but it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Even though shes said she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to those benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer.
Mrs S has also mentioned life insurance and death benefits. But those benefits would 
only be paid in the event of death, whereas the PPI paid out for accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
So from what Ive seen, I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit for Mrs S 
if she couldnt work.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs S would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Which means Lloyds does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But Lloyds has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman