DRN-3052738
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI) as part of a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), in 
2001. 
A TMPP was a type of protection policy which typically included PPI together with other 
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of 
the TMPP could be added or taken out as the consumer wished. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax throughout this decision.
background
Only the PPI was complained about in this case and so thats what Im addressing here. 
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the PPI mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. As their complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available. When considering 
what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the PPI mis-sale complaint. 
I accept theres not much of the sale documentation left to look at after so long. However, 
businesses arent required to retain documents indefinitely and when complained about, this 
sale was already quite a long time in the past. 
Nevertheless, Ive seen quite a few very similar sales to this one, and my experience is that 
consumers were given a choice about PPI during a discussion they had with a mortgage 
adviser. Paperwork was then drawn up for the customer to see, based on that discussion. 
Halifaxs computerised records are still available and these also tend to confirm that such a 
discussion took place and that Mr and Mrs B were asked about how they might fare if they 
lost their jobs or became too ill to work. The records show they agreed to the PPI.
Based on my experience of these particular sales, Mr and Mrs B would have also been given 
a schedule showing which, if any, elements of the TMPP they had chosen to take out and I 
see in this case they also agreed to the  life cover and CIC. So I think they wanted to protect 
themselves against unforeseen events. In my view, Mr and Mrs B would have also had to 
authorise the monthly premiums for all these insurances to leave their bank account. 
Given all this, I think its much more likely Mr and Mrs B consented to the PPI back in 2001.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B as part of an advised sale, so it 
needed to check that the PPI was suitable for their situation. I think it was.
I say this because they were eligible for the cover. Although it looks like they had some job-
related protection against sickness, Im afraid this doesnt make other forms of insurance 
unsuitable. This was a mortgage secured against Mr and Mrs Bs home and it would have 
paid out a monthly sum for up to two years if successfully claimed on. This would have been 
in addition to any other means they already had at the time. I also think the monthly cost 
would have been affordable for them. I therefore believe the PPI Mr and Mrs B chose was 
suitable and recommending it to them wasnt unreasonable.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave to Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it might have been. But in my view the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what they 
probably thought they were buying from the information they were most likely given at the 
point of sale. Mr and Mrs Bs health at the time doesnt seem to conflict with any of the policy 
rules about pre-existing medical conditions. Its possible those rules probably contained 
certain conditions about claiming for illnesses such as stress and back problems. But these 
things didnt apply to Mr and Mrs Bs situation of that time; in any event I dont think they 
would have expected to claim for these in the future without providing at least some 
evidence, which is what the rules said. 
So even if I accept Halifax could have explained the policy more fully, theres nothing 
suggesting this would have caused Mr and Mrs B to act differently.
This sale was a long time ago. To uphold the complaint, Id need to think Mr and Mrs B were 
not given a choice or there were other serious flaws in the sale. Theres simply no evidence 
of this and from my experience, I think its much more likely they agreed to the PPI and 
would have been able to see they were paying each month for it.
Im very sorry to disappoint them.
my decision
I dont uphold the complaint or make any award. Bank of Scotland plc doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman