DRN-2317131
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank PLC mis-sold him a single premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1996 Mr T took out a loan and Barclays recommended that he also take out PPI to protect 
his repayments. So he borrowed extra money to pay for the PPI upfront and this was added 
to the loan.
Mr T says nothing about PPI was highlighted or mentioned and he wasnt aware it had been 
added to his loan at the point of sale. Mr T told us he wasnt given any policy details and that 
he wouldnt have asked for PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case. 
Theres only limited information available now. But, based on the information Ive seen, Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Here are my reasons.
Mr T was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions at 
the time.
I havent seen anything signed by Mr T from the time of the sale. But, the fact that Barclays 
doesnt have the original paperwork isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint.
I believe Mr T wouldve been required to sign paperwork that was the same as the sample 
application form and credit agreement that I've seen. 
I think Barclays made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to have it. 
I say this because on the loan application he had to complete for his loan theres a section 
headed: Barclayloan Protection (please tick one box only). 
And there are two alternatives offered with tick boxes, either: 
Please arrange Barclayloan Protection on my behalf or 
I do not require Barclayloan Protection. 
So I think it probably was clear to Mr G that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI when he 
applied for his loan. And he couldve ticked the form to say he didnt want PPI if he hadnt 
wished to take out the policy.
And the agreement Mr T wouldve had to sign to get his loan included details of the PPI set 
out separately. So Mr T wouldve been able to see that PPI made up part of the total loan. If 
this hadnt been something Mr T wanted, I think its likely he wouldve taken this up with 
Barclays at the time. I've seen nothing to make me think that happened. 
This means I cant fairly say that Barclays failed to draw PPI to Mr Ts attention or didnt 
present it as an optional feature, just based on what Mr T says. Although its completely 
understandable that Mr T mightve now forgotten some of the details from a meeting so long 
ago. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr T decided he wanted the benefits that PPI offered and 
the policy was added to his loan account when he asked for this to happen.
Barclays says it advised Mr T to take out the policy. 
I cant be sure how the policy was presented during any discussions. So, to be as fair as 
possible to Mr T, as he says the sale took place during a meeting, Ill look at his complaint on 
the basis that Barclays personally recommended him to take out PPI with his loan. This 
means that as well as giving him clear information, Barclays also had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the PPI recommendation was suitable for Mr T.
The policy protected Mr T in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. It paid out a 
benefit for as long as he was off work. So it couldve cleared the loan if he wasnt able to 
return to work. 
Although Mr T told us he had some other means he could rely on to help him with the loan 
repayments if he couldnt work, this doesnt mean the policy was unsuitable for him. He 
didnt have any sick pay through work. And I dont think having to rely on others if he couldnt 
work wouldve been a dependable means of support for Mr T as everyones circumstances 
can change unexpectedly. So I think the policy was suitable for Mr T taking into account 
what hes told us about his circumstances at the time. 
If the loan had been repaid early Mr T wouldnt have been given a pro-rata refund and that 
made the policy relatively inflexible. I cant be sure that Barclays considered this or explained 
the situation clearly to Mr T. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that when he took it out Mr T 
thought it likely hed repay the loan early. So that feature of the policy didnt make it 
unsuitable for Mr T. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But the balance of the evidence suggests that Mr T chose to take out the policy and so 
he appears to have wanted this type of cover. And I cant reasonably say that he wouldnt 
have benefitted from the PPI. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable.   
The loan agreement he wouldve signed sets out what Mr T would need to borrow to pay for 
the PPI, the interest hed be charged on the PPI part of the loan, the monthly cost to repay 
the PPI loan and the potential total cost of the whole loan. So Mr T wouldve been able to 
see the overall cost and it seems likely to me that he wouldve understood what he was 
paying.Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr T wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance, I think Mr T wouldve still taken out the policy. 
This means Mr T hasnt lost out as a result of anything Barclays did wrong when it sold him 
this PPI. So theres nothing Barclays needs to do to put things right.  
In coming to my decision Ive also taken into account what Mr T said about the way other 
PPI cases have been dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive 
looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other 
cases doesnt change my conclusion here. I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done 
will help explain how Ive reached my decision on this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman