DRN-3134807
The complaint
Miss R says Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly lent to her, as it allowed her to take out 
three loans.
What happened
Miss R took out three £10,000 loans with Barclays, one in August 2015 and two in February 
2016. The second loan repaid the first loan. 
Miss R complained to Barclays that it irresponsibly lent to her. She said she was a young 
adult when she applied for the loans and that the checks it did were not proportionate 
considering this. Barclays didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Miss R came to our service, but our investigator agreed that the loans had been responsibly 
lent. She said that Barclays carried out the necessary checks in relation to the loans 
affordability and Miss R met the lending criteria at the time. Miss R disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has emphasised to our service that she was a young adult when she took out these 
loans and so she shouldnt have been given the amount of money she was. Barclays is 
required to assess each applicant individually, but it cant discriminate  age is a protected 
characteristic. And Barclays isnt required to assess an applicants actual maturity or make 
any kind of judgements of this nature when it assesses applications. Miss R isnt suggesting 
she wasnt a functional adult or had a disability or condition that meant she wasnt able to 
responsibly make her own decisions. So Barclays is required to assess her as it has  as a 
working adult, a number of years above the minimum age for credit, applying for loans.
Miss R has said that when she applied for the second and third loans, she in fact wasnt 
working and was living abroad. I accept that Barclays did have access to a current account 
for Miss R, so could have seen her salary payments stop. However, Miss R equally couldve 
opened a bank elsewhere. And Barclays asked Miss R if anything had changed with her 
personal situation in the last two months that might impact her ability to repay the loan, as 
part of its application questions. Barclays is entitled to rely on the information Miss R 
provided and her assessment that at the time this money was affordable. Its now appears 
Miss R wasnt honest when she answered this declaration, but I cant hold Barclays 
responsible for that.
Ive reviewed the income and expenditure details Barclays held for Miss R at the time of the 
applications and based on this, the loans do appear affordable to her. Her bank statements 
dont suggest shes in financial difficulty and do show more than enough disposable income 
to cover the loan repayments. Also, by the time Miss R did need to start repaying the second 
and third loans, she was working again. While I accept Barclays couldnt know this, based on 
Miss Rs declaration it wasnt aware her financial situation had changed. Miss R says she 
didnt have a new job when she applied for the loans, but I can see a monthly salary begins 
coming into Miss Rs account in March 2016. So it seems she was able to secure a new job 
very soon after, considering shes paid nearly a full months wage only three weeks after the 
third loan application.
Ultimately it seems Miss Rs complaint is that Barclays shouldnt have lent to her due to her 
age/maturity and because the borrowing means shes now in a position where she cant 
afford other financial commitments, such as making a house purchase. But neither of these 
are actual reasons for Barclays to not have lent to Miss R at the times she applied for loans. 
Im satisfied that based on the information it held in 2015 and 2016, Barclays lent 
responsibly to Miss R. And that its checks were proportionate for the borrowing she 
requested.
While I understand Miss Rs frustrations that she now cant purchase a home, this doesnt 
impact the situation she was in when she applied for the loans. Miss R initially said she 
wants Barclays to refund all the payments she made. Shes now said the interest she paid 
and for it to compensate her, but I see no reason this would be fair. Miss R used the loans to 
fund living abroad and her day-to-date life.
Reviewing Miss Rs statements the money is used primarily for non-essential spending. 
Shes had the benefit of this money and the benefit of the life experience it funded. So I dont 
agree it would be fair for Barclays to refund her any payments or interest, when I cant see it 
lent irresponsibly. I accept Miss R does get into financial difficulty at a later point, but 
Barclays is only able to assess future affordability of the loans to a reasonable point. Looking 
at Miss Rs account, some time after the loans are granted, she does begin spending 
beyond her income and this leads to her falling into debt. But I dont agree this is something 
Barclays could reasonably have predicted at the time it lent to her. So while I understand she 
did get into difficulty and need a relative to repay these loans for her, this doesnt change my 
outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman