DRN-3814709
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly declined a claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In April 2021, Mr L noticed that his car was leaking oil. Hes told us that he took it to a garage 
and asked them to identify what was causing the leak and advise on whether it was 
economical to repair. The garage checked over the car and was satisfied it was in good
condition for its age and mileage, so Mr L went ahead with the recommended repairs.
The garage replaced the oil filter, the oil cooler and changed the engine oil. They also 
replaced the rear prop shaft coupling, refaced all brakes and serviced the transmission. They 
charged Mr L a total of £1,719.06 and supplied an invoice which set out a breakdown of the 
individual costs for parts and labour.
Within approximately 10 miles of picking up the car, the engine failed. So Mr L returned the 
car to the garage. The engine was sent away for analysis and Mr L was asked to pay for an 
expert report, which he did.
The expert raised concerns about some of the work Mr L had paid for. They said in their 
opinion, the oil filter and engine oil were unlikely to be recent replacements despite being 
charged for by the garage. And the cost of the oil cooler seemed unusually high. But they 
concluded that the engine failed due to being progressively worn from either very high 
mileage, insufficient oil changes, low quality oil and filters or a combination of them.
Mr L believes the garage has been negligent in their advice and repairs. Hes also 
concerned that hed been charged for parts and labour that hadnt been provided. So he 
contacted NatWest to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA as hed paid the garage on 
his credit card. He asked NatWest to refund the amount hed paid for the repairs and the 
expert report, along with the value of his car which had been destroyed due to the 
negligence of the garage.
NatWest concluded that it wasnt responsible as it didnt think Mr L had a valid claim. It said 
that the items in dispute amounted to less than £100 individually, so section 75 protection 
didnt apply.
Mr L disagreed and brought his complaint to our service. But our investigator didnt uphold it. 
She came to the same conclusion as NatWest. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide and in August 2022 I issued the following provisional 
decision.
My provisional decision
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers who have paid for goods or services on a credit 
card to claim against their credit card provider for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation on the part of the supplier of the goods or services, so long as certain 
technical conditions have been met.
NatWest declined Mr Ls claim because, in its view, the claim didnt meet one of the 
technical conditions due to the prices of the individual items. It said that because the only 
items disputed on the garages invoice were the oil filter and the engine oil  which cost £11 
and £89.25  the value of the claim didnt meet the £100 threshold for section 75.
The applicable term in the CCA here is subsection (3)(b) of section 75 which says: 
[Section 75 protection] does not apply to a claim -

(b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
This means section 75 protection will not apply to any single item to which the supplier has 
attached a cash price of £100 or under, or more than £30,000.
Fundamentally, the dispute between the parties here is about how to define single item. 
NatWest says its the individual parts and labour broken down on the invoice. But Mr L 
believes its the cost of the overall transaction, as he paid for one service i.e. to fix an oil 
leak.
Identifying the single item isnt always straightforward. It will depend on the nature of the 
thing being purchased and how it is presented for sale.
In this case, Mr L was quoted a price to fix an oil leak which involved the garage carrying out 
some servicing and repairs. Mr L didnt specify what specific works he wanted the garage to 
undertake, instead he left it to their professional judgement to decide what work and parts 
were required to complete the job.
A price was agreed, and a verbal contract was entered into. It appears there may have been 
some variation to this contract, with other repairs being added  such as refacing the brakes. 
But overall, Im satisfied that Mr L entered into one contract for the service rather than lots of 
separate contracts for parts and repairs priced individually. I say this because the garage 
didnt list the individual work and prices of each part and labour beforehand; this was only 
itemised for transparency at the end.
So Im not persuaded that the single item here is the oil filter and the engine oil, but rather 
the contract as a whole which puts the value of the claim within the criteria for section 75 to 
apply. Its for these reasons that Im persuaded NatWest shouldve considered Mr Ls section 
75 claim further. As it didnt, Ive thought about what it wouldve done if it had.
In order to further satisfy the criteria of section 75, Mr L needs to evidence a breach of 
contract and / or misrepresentation. The Customer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant 
legislation here. Regarding the supply of services, it says:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including as a term of the 
contract anything that is said or written to the consumer, by or on behalf of the trader, 
about the trader or the service, if it is taken into account by the consumer when 
deciding to enter into the contract.
It goes on to say:Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader 
must perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
So Ive thought about whether the garage failed to do what was agreed between them and 
Mr L which would amount to a breach of contract. Or whether they did fulfil the contract but 
failed to act with reasonable care and skill. Ive looked at all the available evidence, and in 
particular the expert report.
The experts inspection of the engine led them to the opinion that certain parts and labour 
charged for werent carried out. Specifically, the engine oil and oil filter were of a condition 
that wasnt consistent with being recent replacements. They were also not genuine parts 
from the car manufacturer, despite genuine part numbers being quoted on the invoice.
But the expert seemed satisfied that some works, like replacing the oil cooler, had been 
completed. And they didnt conclude that the works undertaken  or the failure to replace the 
oil and / or filters  were the cause of the engine failure. They suggested there was a lack of 
servicing at the correct periods/mileage or inferior oil had been used and that the engine 
had high mileage.
Im mindful that the expert only inspected the engine. So there is no commentary on the 
works undertaken to the brakes or prop shaft. As such, I cant make a finding on whether 
these were carried out and to what standard.
From what Ive seen, I think the garage told Mr L that it would carry out works to fix the leak 
which included changing the oil and filters. This was taken into account by Mr L when 
deciding whether to enter into the contract. And therefore its a term of that contract under 
the CRA. The experts report persuades me that this work wasnt carried out despite being 
charged for. So I think theres been a breach here.
But I cant fairly say that this breach went on to cause the extent of damage to Mr Ls car that 
he believes it did as thats not suggested in any of the evidence submitted.
Putting things right
Im satisfied the single item in dispute is the contract for services entered into to repair the 
leak to Mr Ls car. And the value of this falls within the criteria for section 75. Im also 
satisfied theres been a breach of contract by the garage. So I think NatWest should meet 
the claim under section 75.
But I have to take into account that some of the parts and labour Mr L paid for were 
provided. And whilst I appreciate there is no benefit to those works now that his car is 
beyond repair, Mr L is still liable to pay for them unless there is evidence that they were 
carried out without reasonable care and skill. This isnt suggested in the evidence submitted.
So Ive thought about how much of the garages invoice NatWest should refund. This isnt an 
exact science as its not clear what parts and labour specifically relate to replacing the oil 
and filter.
Im inclined to direct NatWest to pay one quarter of the invoice, as well as the cost of the 
experts report, plus 8% simple interest per annum. I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Im not intending to award the value of Mr Ls car because there is nothing in the evidence 
submitted which suggests that the engine failed as a result of anything the garage did or 
didnt do.
Responses to my provisional decisionNatWest didnt agree with my provisional decision, and provided the following comments:
It doesnt accept that the works carried out on the car can fairly be determined as a 
single item. Mr L knew about / requested a number of different services from the 
garage and these are listed on the invoice.
The oil and filter change appear to be such a small cost both in terms of parts and 
labour that it wasnt actually itemised in the labour summary. The item costs were 
£11 and £89.25 and the least expensive labour cost on the invoice is £26, so if its 
assumed it cost £26 or less, then the total would be £126.25. Whilst other items on 
the invoice may be related to the oil or oil filter, even adding all of the smaller items 
doesnt bring the total to £429.76 awarded.
It hasnt seen evidence that Mr L paid for the expert report and would require proof of 
payment.
Mr L has raised several points on why he disagrees with my decision, along with further 
evidence on the condition of his car. I dont intend to list them all, but I consider the key 
points to be as follows:
The original contract entered into with the garage was for an oil leak repair, at an 
agreed price of £1,000 plus VAT. After entering into the contract, further repairs were 
agreed which increased the price.
Mr L has provided evidence of the condition of the car prior to this incident which he 
believes shows it was in good repair.
The expert didnt conclude in his report that the car had a lack of servicing or high 
mileage, but merely stated the engine could have failed for one of these reasons. 
The mileage was lower than average at the time of the engine failure and Mr L has 
full service history on the vehicle.
Mr L has provided a statement from a specialist in this make of car, who is of the 
opinion that the car wasnt of high mileage for this make, model and age.
The specialist is of the opinion that replacing the engine oil and filters is normal 
practice when replacing an oil cooler to repair an oil leak, these arent standalone 
repairs. 
The specialist is of the opinion that if an oil cooler replacement is not carried out 
correctly, it can lead to oil starvation which can cause catastrophic results to the 
engine. In addition, the engine can fail if its run without oil or insufficient oil.
As further evidence was provided, I issued a second provisional decision in September 2022 
which Ive set out below.
My second provisional decision
Both Mr L and NatWest have raised a number of points regarding this complaint and whilst I 
may not have mentioned them all, I want to reassure both parties that Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided. But I dont intend to respond to every point 
individually, or possibly in the level of detail they would like. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.Single item
Whilst Ive thought about NatWests comments, I remain satisfied that the single item in 
dispute is the contract entered into to repair the oil leak  rather than the individual parts and 
labour required to meet the contract.
Mr L isnt a mechanic, and Im not persuaded he asked the garage to carry out a number of 
different services in order to stop oil leaking from his car. Im satisfied its more likely that he, 
as a layperson, wouldve informed the garage of the problem and trusted them to establish 
what work was required to fix it.
Value of claim
Ive considered both Mr L and NatWests comments regarding my provisional award of one 
quarter of the garages invoice.
In particular, Ive thought about the specialists comments that its normal practice to replace 
the engine oil and oil filters when replacing the oil cooler. This may explain why there isnt a 
separate labour charge for this, as it may well fall within the labour cost of £455 to replace 
the cooler.
I acknowledge NatWests concerns that my award is too high. But as Ive said, this isnt an 
exact science and Im not a mechanic. So I dont intend to work out what every screw and 
tube charged for on the invoice was in relation to, but rather to make an award that overall 
seems fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Im aware Mr L considers my award to be too low. But Im only awarding a refund towards 
the work that Im satisfied wasnt carried out to a reasonable skill or wasnt carried out at all. 
The expert report provided on the engine doesnt suggest that the remaining work, other 
than to the engine oil and oil filters, were below standard. So I cant fairly conclude that he 
should receive a refund for the full cost.
Value of car
Mr L has provided several documents which he believes shows that the engine failed as a 
result of the work the garage did / didnt do. He wants NatWest to pay the value of his car as 
part of the section 75 claim. Ive reviewed the evidence, but I dont agree.
Whilst Mr L has provided a statement from a specialist, there is nothing within the report to 
indicate that the specialist has actually seen and inspected the car and / or its engine. The 
statement merely provides an opinion based on information given by Mr L.
For example, the specialist says:
I could only guess that considering the above points the replacement of the oil 
cooler had been done incorrectly or the engine oil hasnt been replaced and the 
vehicle driven without oil.
Having looked at the expert report, which was provided following an inspection of the engine, 
I cant see any suggestion that the oil cooler hasnt been replaced correctly or that there was 
no oil. In fact, the expert commented on the condition and feel of the engine oil, which 
implies the car wasnt left without oil.
The experts conclusion was:The above evidence indicates this engine has failed from being progressively worn 
from either very high mileage, insufficient oil changes, low quality oil and filters or a 
combination of them and not from oil starvation / loss of oil pressure and therefore I 
do not see it is the result of any delay in commencing the repairs or neglect during 
the replacement of the oil cooler. (my emphasis)
I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling regarding this complaint and Im aware of the financial 
implications to him as a result of my decision. But Im more persuaded by the findings of the 
expert who inspected the engine, rather than the general observations of a specialist that 
doesnt appear to have seen the car. Im also mindful that this car wasnt without faults, 
given the problems Mr L was experiencing with it which caused him to take it to the garage 
in the first place.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Mr L didnt agree with my findings. He says the garage admitted liability in full to him, in the 
presence of his friend who has provided a witness statement, at the time the cars engine 
had failed. He says the experts reports are a red herring.
NatWest had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls witness has provided a statement which says:
[The garage] told [Mr L] he couldnt [see the car] as the parts had been boxed up but 
not to worry as [the garage] was taking care of everything and they would be repaired 
and returned to [the garage] at no cost to [Mr L] and would be fitted back to the 
car[The garage] accepted full responsibility for the fault with the engine due to 
negligence when dealing with the works to the engine the week before[The 
garages] words were dont worry Im so sorry about this dont worry youre not going 
to end up with another large bill, you wont have anything to pay on top of what you 
already have. 
Whilst I dont disbelieve Mr L or his witness, Im aware that this interaction wouldve taken 
place prior to the experts assessment of the engine. So the garage wouldnt have known at 
this point what caused the engine to fail. Im also mindful that the garage went on to ask Mr L 
to pay for the expert report which, had the garage accepted full responsibility, its not clear 
why a report was necessary. Or if it had been needed, I think they wouldve covered the cost 
 otherwise, I think Mr L wouldve queried why they werent, given the reassurance hed 
received of no further bills to pay. 
I dont agree with Mr L that the expert report is a red herring. In fact, Im of the opinion that 
its crucial to determining why his engine failed and whether this was as a result of the 
garages work. As Ive said above, even if the garage did admit fault, this was without the 
benefit of this evidence. And it appears any admission has now been retracted.
Based on the information Ive seen, I remain of the decision that NatWest arent liable under 
section 75 for the full value of the car. So Im not deviating from the outcome set out in my 
provisional decisions.  If Mr L is able to secure an admission of liability from the garage along with proof that it was 
their work which caused the engine to fail, he should provide this to NatWest to consider 
further. And if NatWest decide to pay the claim in full based on that evidence, it will have the 
required proof to recover its losses from the garage or their insurers.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint and directing National 
Westminster Bank Plc to pay the following:
reimbursement of one quarter of the garages invoice  which amounts to £429.76
reimbursement of the cost of the experts report  which amounts to £1,080
8% simple interest per annum on both amounts above, from the date Mr L was 
unfairly deprived of the refunds  which I consider to be 13 October 2021  until the 
date this is paid.
Mr L should provide proof that hes made these payments by way of an invoice or bank 
statement showing the amounts paid. NatWest has asked that this be sent to our service. 
NatWest should make payment within 28 days of Mr L accepting this decision and providing 
proof of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman