DRN-4256211
The complaint
Ms C complains about the way that Rock Insurance Services Limited has administered a 
single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
In December 2019, Ms C and her partner, Mr S, booked a holiday abroad. They were due to 
travel in June 2022. On 16 March 2022, they took out a single trip travel insurance policy 
through Rock, which was underwritten by an insurer Ill call E.
However, Ms C didnt receive a copy of the policy documents, so on 18 March 2022, she 
called Rock. During the call, Rocks call handler attempted to send the documents by email 
to Ms C again, but they still werent received. The call handler arranged for the policy 
documents to be issued by post to Ms C. These were sent on 5 April 2022 and received by 
Ms C on the following day.
Ms C said that shed been annoyed that she hadnt received the documents at the outset, so 
she put them to the side. But on 10 May 2022, Ms C had checked the policy documents. She 
noted the documents stated that she and Mr S had declared that Mr S suffered from high 
blood pressure, but that theyd declined to pay the additional premium to cover that condition 
(and other specified linked conditions). So she emailed Rock that day. She said she and Mr 
S had realised that theyd declined to add medical cover for Mr S and asked Rock to get in 
contact, so that the condition could be added to their policy.
Very sadly, Mr S unexpectedly passed away two days later on 12 May 2022. On that basis, 
Ms C cancelled the trip.
Rock didnt respond to Ms Cs email until 10 June 2022, when it emailed Ms C with details 
explaining how to add medical cover to the policy.
Ms C made a cancellation claim to E. But E turned down the claim. Thats because it noted 
that the cause of Mr S death was related to his existing high blood pressure. The policy 
terms specifically excluded claims which were caused by a policyholders pre-existing 
medical conditions unless theyd been declared to and accepted by E. In this case, Ms C 
and Mr S had declined to add cover for Mr S high blood pressure.
Unhappy with Rocks administration of the policy, Ms C complained. She said she and Mr S 
had never been asked whether they wanted to add cover for Mr S high blood pressure 
during the online sales process. And she also felt that had Rock responded to her email of 
10 May 2022 in a timely way, she and Mr S wouldve been able to add medical cover to the 
policy prior to his passing. She considered that the delay in Rock responding to that email 
had meant theyd been unable to add the cover they wanted, which had ultimately led to the 
decline of the cancellation claim. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought it was most likely that Rock had asked Ms C and Mr S screening 
questions during the online sales process and that theyd inadvertently chosen not to add 
cover for Mr S medical condition. And while he couldnt be certain that Rock had emailed 
the policy documents to Ms C and Mr S following the policy sale, he was persuaded that 
Rock had posted these to Ms C on 5 April 2022 and the documents had been received the 
next day. So he concluded that Ms C had had some weeks to check the policy documents 
and to contact Rock if she wanted to make amendments to the policy. But she hadnt done 
so until 10 May 2022. The investigator felt that if Ms C had contacted Rock sooner, it was 
most likely that the cover wouldve been added to the policy and that the cancellation claim 
would therefore have been covered.
After the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision, Rock confirmed that it was 
prepared to pay Ms C £250 compensation to reflect the upset it considers she was caused 
by its delay in responding to her email of 10 May 2022 and for the delay in responding to her 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 July 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Rocks offer to pay her £250 compensation was fair and reasonable. I 
said:
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Ms C for the loss of Mr S. I understand that 
this has been a very upsetting time for her.
Its also important that I make clear the parameters of this decision. I will only be considering 
whether Rock administered Ms Cs policy. I wont be deciding whether or not it was fair for E 
to turn down the claim. Thats because Rock is an entirely separate legal entity to E and it 
doesnt have the regulators authority to assess claims. If Ms C is unhappy with the ultimate 
decision to turn down her claim (or the way in which E handled her claim), its open to her to 
make a new complaint about that issue alone.
Did Rock sell the policy fairly?
Its common ground that Ms C and Mr S took out this policy online. I havent seen any 
evidence that Rock carried out an assessment of Ms C and Mr S demands and needs, so I 
dont think it recommended that they should take out the policy. This means it didnt need to 
check that the policy was suitable for them. But it did need to give them enough clear, fair 
and not misleading information about the contract so that Ms C and Mr S could decide if it 
was right for them.
Rock has provided me with a copy of the sales journey it says Ms C and Mr S wouldve 
followed during the online process. Ms C has seen a copy of the sales journey and has had 
the opportunity to comment on it. I appreciate Ms C has concerns that the sales journey Ive 
seen didnt relate specifically to the purchase of her policy. However, I think its more likely 
than not that the sales journey does reflect the information Ms C is likely to have seen and 
the questions that she and Mr S were asked. So Ive gone on to think about whats most 
likely to have happened at the time of the sale.
The sales process includes a section called Medical screening questions. It appears that 
Ms C and Mr S answered yes to a question which asked them whether anyone to be 
insured on the policy needed cover for any medical conditions. Ms C and Mr S were then 
asked whether anyone to be insured on the policy had any medical condition where theyd 
been prescribed medication (amongst other things) within the last two years. They were 
subsequently asked whether anyone travelling on the policy had any circulatory or heart- 
related conditions. It appears that Ms C and Mr S declared that Mr S suffered from high 
blood pressure and that he was prescribed two medications for it.Next, the sales process indicates that Rock calculated the additional premium which E would 
charge to cover Mr S high blood pressure. It also set out a list of linked conditions which 
would be excluded for cover under the policy. Immediately underneath this box were two 
buttons, one which said: Add Cover and one which said: No cover. If No Cover was 
selected, then Rock says Ms C and Mr S wouldve seen a screen which said:
As you have selected no, you will not be covered for any claims arising directly or indirectly 
from your pre-existing medical condition(s) or any associated complications.
Ms C strongly disputes that she or Mr S were asked to add or decline cover. Ive thought 
about this carefully.
I can see that following the sale, a medical screening declaration was generated. The title of 
the document included the word declined. This referred specifically to Mr S and the 
declaration of high blood pressure, along with information about Mr S medications. It 
confirmed that the insurer would be prepared to offer cover for the condition at a cost of 
£23.33, but that it noted Mr S had declined this cover. It reiterated that there was no cover 
for Mr S medical condition and also set out a list of excluded linked conditions.
In my view, it seems unlikely that such a screening document wouldve been generated 
unless Mr S and Ms C had decided to decline to add medical cover. And I note that in her 
email to Rock on 10 May 2022, Ms C specifically stated that she and Mr S had realised that 
(they) had declined the medical cover for (Mr S). So on balance, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr S and Ms C were asked whether or not they wanted to add medical cover and 
that they declined to do so, even if inadvertently.
Id add too that I think Rocks screening questions were clear and that it clearly set out the 
possible implications on cover if Ms C and Mr S decided against paying the premium for Mr 
S medical condition.
Rock says that following the sale, it emailed copies of Ms C and Mr S policy documents to 
them. It cant provide us with any evidence to show that it definitely did do so, and therefore 
its possible that these documents were emailed at the point of sale, but I cant discount the 
possibility that things didnt happen as they should. With that said, Ive listened to a call 
between Ms C and Rock on 18 March 2022, two days after the policy sale. During the call, 
Ms C stated that she hadnt received her policy documents. The call handler checked Ms Cs 
email address and it appears that they emailed the documents again while Ms C was on the 
line. Ms C says that despite this, the documents werent received into her inbox. Whats 
clear though is that the call handler also offered to arrange to send the policy documents by 
post to Ms C, which Ms C accepted. I think this was an appropriate and reasonable 
response from Rock and ensured that Ms C would be given the information she needed in 
good time.
The policy information was posted to Ms C on 5 April 2022 and Ms C says she received it a 
day later on 6 April 2022.
Did Rocks delay in responding to Ms Cs email cause her to lose out?
As Ive explained above, Ms C and Mr S policy documents included a medical screening 
declaration which showed that cover for high blood pressure had been declined. I think this 
document was clear and also highlighted the potential impact upon cover, including for 
linked conditions. By Ms Cs account, she received this document on 6 April 2022  around 
five weeks before Mr S sadly passed away. I think the information Ms C was sent was clear 
enough to put her on notice that she hadnt added cover for Mr S medical condition when 
the policy was purchased. And so I think Ms C had enough information available to her some weeks earlier to check the level of cover and to get in touch with E/Rock to enquire about 
paying for medical cover if shed wished to do so.
Ms C says she put the policy information to one side when she received it, because shed 
been annoyed by the delay in its dispatch. She said she didnt check it until 10 May 2022, at 
which point she emailed Rock, stating that shed realised shed forgotten to add medical 
cover for Mr S and asking for it to contact her so that she could add the cover. Sadly, Mr S 
passed away only two days later, by which point, the additional premium for high blood 
pressure cover hadnt been paid. And its agreed that Rock didnt respond to Ms Cs email 
until 10 June 2022. So Ive considered whether I think Rocks delay in replying to Ms C 
resulted in her being unable to add medical cover when she could otherwise have so.
But I dont think I could fairly or reasonably find that Rocks delay in responding to Ms Cs 
email meant she was left without cover which she and Mr S would otherwise have been able 
to pay for. Thats because of the very short timeframe between Ms Cs email and Mr S sad 
passing. Even if Rock had responded to Ms C and had provided her with information about 
how to add medical cover for Mr S within its own service level of 48 hours (which I dont find 
to be unreasonable), it seems most likely that Mr S would already have been taken ill. And 
as such, I still dont think Ms C wouldve been able to pay the additional premium to cover Mr 
S medical condition prior to his passing. As such then, I dont think I could reasonably 
conclude that the delay in Rock responding to Ms C was ultimately the reason why her claim 
was declined.
With that said, it did take Rock a month to respond to Ms Cs email. And it acknowledges 
that there were delays in its handling of Ms Cs complaint. It recognises that these service 
failings wouldve added to Ms Cs distress at an already very difficult time for her. Therefore, 
it has offered to pay Ms C £250 compensation. I currently think that this is a fair and 
reasonable award of compensation to reflect the material additional trouble and upset I think 
Rock is likely to have caused Ms C.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Rock didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Ms C disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised her response. She said 
that thered been no discussion with Rock about posting her documents on 18 March 2022  
that call had taken place days later. She maintained that the sales process Rock had 
provided to me wasnt the process shed followed. She queried how customers were 
supposed to know about all the different parties involved in the insurance policy  in 
particular, Rock and E. She stated that she and Mr S had only realised that cover for Mr S 
condition was declined when they received the policy documents. She asked how I was to 
know a screening document wouldnt have been generated unless theyd declined the cover. 
She felt thered been a glitch in the system, but that I had dismissed all she had to say and 
took Rock at face value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Ms C, I still think Rocks offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
Ms Cs policy was sold by Rock and it was underwritten by E. Many travel insurance policies are sold by brokers who arent responsible for dealing with claims, or indeed authorised to 
deal with claims. I understand that Ms C wasnt aware of the parties involved in the sale and 
underwriting of her insurance policy. But it remains the case that if shes unhappy with the 
way her claim was handled, or with the insurers decision to decline her claim, shell need to 
complain separately to E about that issue alone.
I appreciate Ms C says that Rock didnt discuss posting her documents to her during the call 
of 18 March 2022. Even if the call did take place later though, Ms C told us that shed 
received the documents on 6 April 2022. So I still think shed had the relevant documents for 
around five weeks before she emailed Rock asking it to contact her and Mr S to discuss 
adding Mr S medical condition to the policy. 
It's clear how strongly Ms C feels that she and Mr S werent presented with the option to 
declare Mr S medical condition at the point of sale. Ive thought about what Ms C has told us 
very carefully and Id like to reassure her that I havent dismissed what shes said or taken 
Rocks evidence at face value. But I have to make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  what I think is most likely to have happened, given the available evidence and 
circumstances. In this case, Ive carefully weighed-up Ms Cs testimony, alongside Rocks 
submissions and the screening document. 
I dont think Ive seen enough evidence to fairly or reasonably conclude that Rocks sales 
process had a glitch on the day Ms C and Mr S took out the policy, or that the sales process 
weve been sent isnt the journey Ms C and Mr S followed. And the screening document 
does specifically relate to Mr S, includes his date of birth and refers directly to his medical 
condition and the medications he took for that condition. On balance then, I think it appears 
more likely than not that Ms C and Mr S entered details about Mr S medical condition during 
the online sale and declined to take out cover for it  even though I accept they may have 
done so inadvertently.
And as Ive explained, Ms C and Mr S had received the policy documents - which showed 
that Mr S medical condition wasnt covered - around five weeks before Ms C emailed Rock 
to enquire about how to add cover. I still find that the documents were clear enough to put 
Ms C on notice that Mr S didnt have medical cover. And that she therefore could have 
contacted Rock or E some weeks sooner to take out cover for Mr S medical condition. Its 
still the case too that Ms C didnt email Rock to explore adding medical cover until two days 
before Mr S was sadly taken ill and passed away. So I still think that even if Rock had 
picked-up the email within its service level of 48 hours, its very unlikely that cover wouldve 
been accepted and agreed by E prior to Mr S illness.
Id like to reiterate my condolences to Ms C for the loss of Mr S. I dont doubt what an 
upsetting and difficult time shes been through and I know that this decision is likely to come 
as a disappointment to her. But overall, I still think that Rocks offer of £250 compensation to 
reflect the impact its delay in responding to Ms C when she was already going through such 
a distressing time is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that 
Rock must now make such a compensation payment to Ms C.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think Rock has now made a fair and reasonable offer of settlement.
I direct Rock Insurance Services Limited to pay Ms C £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman