DRN-3974055
The complaint
Mrs H complains about a life assurance policy she believes should have made a payment to 
her husbands estate. Responsibility for the policy in this case sits with Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited. 
What happened
There arent many details of this life policy. That reflects the time thats passed since it was 
taken out  in 1971. 
Mrs H said her husband paid the premium for this policy until 1993. She says at that point he 
was informed that he had paid the maximum amount required by the policy and that he 
no longer needed to make payments.
Mrs H contacted Utmost about the policy in 2022, following her husbands death. But Utmost 
have no record of the policy. They believe it must have ended many years ago. 
One of our investigators has looked into the matter. They havent found any evidence that 
moves things further forward. He concluded we couldnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I can see this policy did exist at one time. But whats missing  crucially  is evidence that it 
continued to exist up to 2022, when Mrs Hs husband died. 
Without that evidence, I find it reasonable that Utmost have declined to pay the claim. 
I dont see anything unreasonable in Utmost having no records of the policy ending. It seems 
likely to me that happened in 1993, when the premiums apparently stopped being paid. I 
wouldnt expect Utmost to have kept records for this long about a policy that had ended. 
I appreciate Mrs H has said her husband was told he didnt need to pay premiums anymore. 
But Id have expected such an important change to be confirmed in writing, even in 1993. 
And I feel it was then for Mrs Hs husband to have kept that somewhere safe. 
The fact theres no record of this leads me to conclude the policy likely ended when Mrs Hs 
husband stopped paying the premiums. Thats more usually what happens with life policies. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman